ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e58	The representatives of Ranveig Frøiland, Hans J. Røssorde and Gunnar Skaug, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: by the Workers’ Group on the Permit of the Representative Rune E. Kristiansen on 31 May and 1 June to attend the meetings of the Nordic Council in Riga of the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on leave from 1 June to 6 June for, as a member of the Middle East Committee of the Interparliamentary Union, to participate in the Middle East region. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Oslo Kai Ekanger and for Rogaland County, Helga Rullestad, are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e105	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e119	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen State Council Siri Bjerke State Council Olav Akselsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e138	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In recent times, there has been a lot of concern and uncertainty about Storebrand, DnB and Sampo. In this regard, the Minister of Finance was publicly out there and pointed out that he wanted the Board of the Social Security Fund to register and note what the political parties on the Stortinget expressed. Ten years ago, when the Minister of Finance was a great representative and a member of the Financial Committee, he, together with the Progress Party, was preparing guidelines on how the Board of Directors of the Fund would act. One of the things the council itself was concerned about then, was that the People's Security Fund was not to be used for rescue operations, and that it was not to be political management of individual investments by the board of the People's Security Fund. I would therefore ask the Council of State to confirm that he has not changed his opinion today in relation to what he himself expressed ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e149	It is often the case that there are different political views in matters like this. In this case, however, all the parties in Stortinget have expressed their agreement on the importance of Storebrand remaining Norwegian. I noticed that. I assume that all social actors have noticed. And I'm assuming that also the shareholders have noticed. The government has never at any time or in any particular case expressed any desire to instruct the Swedish Social Security Fund. The reference from the representative is therefore incorrect. In line with established practice, the Government does not have any authority to do so. The Board of Governors of the Public Security Fund shall decide on its own initiative on such matters. This does not prevent us from expecting the People's Security Fund, like all other shareholders, to take note of the unanimous views that have emerged from parties in the Stortinget. In this context, I have noticed an interesting statement from former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, who is the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party. He expresses in an interview with Today's Business May 25th: ‘It’s probably a clear idea here in the house that you want a Norwegian solution so that we can get a strong Norwegian financial institution. I think it must be allowed to say so that you expect the Swedish Social Security Fund to remember it." Furthermore, in relation to the question of the treatment of the Social Security Fund, he says: ‘It is clear that it has that possibility. No one can take action against it. But I think that when there is such a clear view of the political environment, it is not unnatural for this to come out. The Social Security Fund doesn't live in a vacuum. But neither of us will go into an instruction." I think it's well expressed, and I have nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e168	I am fully aware that the Government does not have any powers to instruct the board of the Swedish Social Security Fund. That's what the Stortinget has. But it is now such that powerful statements by the Minister of Finance in this context clearly help to influence the processes. And I would very much like to ask the Council of State once again to confirm that he has no intention of affecting neither the Board of the Public Security Fund in their decisions in this matter nor to take any initiative to change the guidelines drawn up by the Storting. Clearing is essential because significant uncertainties have been created in this case. It is important that the Storting and other environments behave neatly when these types of merger issues come up – I have at least recorded significant concerns. I will once again ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that he has not intended to interfere with these.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e175	Of course, I can confirm what the representative asks for in his question. That has never been the case. The government has never at any time indicated that it has any desire or opportunity to instruct the Swedish Social Security Fund. What I have said is quite identical to what the representative Bondevik has said in this interview in today's business. I'm assuming that there's also a starting point for the representative Jensen that if political parties express their views, you're assuming that society around you notices what you're saying. I assume that all the shareholders have done so, including the People's Security Fund. But it's never been a matter of instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e182	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e185	I believe that the Minister of Finance has made a wise statement on this issue, namely that the Board of the Social Security Fund should not live in a vacuum, and that it is important that we have Norwegian-based financial and banking services. But it confronts us with the following dilemma: Now there have been offers from a Finnish-dominated giant who wants to buy Storebrand – Storebrand is in play. How, then, are we going to make sure that this is a Norwegian-based solution if the Board of the Danish Social Security Fund does not block this? Initially, I would have liked both DnB and Storebrand to remain independent, independent units, but if the situation is that Storebrand is actually in play, then the question is, how can we do anything from DnB and Stortinget's side? DnB is, as you know, owned by the Norwegian people through mass destruction and government. Is it up to the Minister of Finance to take different steps, possibly to capitalise DnB, to ensure that there is a Norwegian solution, if it would now prove that there was a current possibility as this is slowly progressing? I could imagine hearing the finance minister's views on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e194	I think it is right to assume that it is Storebrand's shareholders who will now decide on the available bids. I've noticed the board's recommendation. I have noticed that there are different views on the board. I have noticed that there seems to be some different assessments among the shareholders. I am very conscious that I have different roles in this context, including: a role as a concession authority, where I will not express any view until the matter comes to my table. With regard to the other questions that the representative here is travelling, I see no reason to travel speculation around it now. Now it is the different companies and shareholders that are going to deal with the bids that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e203	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e206	The Council of State is quite right that a very broad political majority has expressed the desire to retain Storebrand under Norwegian ownership. We all answered that when we got such questions. Several have also been asked what we think the Swedish Social Security Fund should do. You are not allowed to answer such questions. Once the Council of State has found reason to answer questions by stressing the assumption that the Swedish Social Security Fund has understood what the politicians have said, it can be interpreted in one of two ways. One is that one would not otherwise believe that Mr. Lindholt and his boss read the newspapers and understand. The second possible interpretation is that a possible political pressure on the Social Security Fund will be reinforced. Are there other alternatives, Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e214	My alternative – if you call it that – is that I assume that the statements that come from political parties in the Storting are notable to all the actors in society, including the shareholders in Groetbrand. I've expressed that, neither more nor less.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e219	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e222	I am very surprised at the Minister of Finance, who now says that he looks at the Norwegian society so that if political parties in big business and government come along with wishes, there is something that both private shareholders and independent governments must place crucial emphasis on. In that case, the Minister of Finance is not surprised by comments in the Financial Times and other foreign newspapers, which put some kind of question mark on the Norwegian community, where the attitude in business should really be that if a finance minister or some political parties say something, it should be interpreted as very important rather than focusing on purely business considerations. Is this really a signal about the Norwegian system with which the Minister of Finance is comfortable, the comments now coming from abroad? And when he stresses the independence and independence of the Fund for Social Security and the Bank Investment Fund, does he not realize that he creates enormous difficulties for the board members of the Fund for Social Security and the Bank Investment Fund through clear views on what he thinks they should do? In order to show their independence, they have to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e229	As in the reply to the representative Jensen, I have to clarify a nuance. The representative, Hagen, used the term ‘key weight’. I never said that. What I've said is that I assume that the representative Hagen, if he as a elected politician expresses a vision, believes what he says in such a context, that he wants it to be noticed, not just so that he expresses it that it should be printed. And then I assume that the different actors in society notice what Hagen says, like the other political parties. It's not that you have to put a decisive emphasis on it even if you notice it, but it's a moment that you obviously assume you're taking it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e236	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e239	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The theme is housing tax. I have understood this after an interesting, clarifying debate in Odelstinget that the government party now believes that too many pay too much house tax in Norway. The Minister of Finance made a contribution to the Odelstingen debate the other day, stressing that the government party was willing to give SEK 1.5 billion in relief to those who pay house taxes today. The debate gradually revealed that it did not concern the next year — nor the current year — but 2005. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Why is it necessary to wait until 2005 to give relief to people who pay housing taxes today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e246	The government has submitted a proposal for a new housing tax system. This proposal led, during the discussion in Stortinget, to the submission by the representatives of the Workers' Party together with the representatives of the SV of a proposal for voting which would have resulted in a system that would have reduced the housing tax by SEK 1.5 billion. That would mean that six out of 10 full-year homes would completely drop house taxes, towards now one out of 10. Eight out of ten would come out better than today. Then it is amazing to me that the Right for its part chooses to vote against such a proposal and rather chooses to stand up with today's tax system, which we all believe is deeply unfair. So the Right promotes a proposal to get an alternative assessment for those who complain, and you have to rely on market value. But that is exactly what we have been trying to avoid through the new proposal for a tax system. The right-hand proposal for an alternative solution, based on the market value, means that each house must be valued at its own cost. There, because you have to base the market value, you have to check if there are tiles on the bathroom, if there are cracks in the ground wall, if there is evening sun or not. That's exactly what we've been trying to avoid. But the Right stood, when their own proposal had fallen, in front of the choice between the system to which the Workers' Party put up, which would mean considerable improvements and relief, and to continue today's system. I find that the Right chose the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e253	That post was made before – it was held in Odelstinget, and it was not about what I asked for. I asked a question based on what the Government believes it can be provided by relief in the housing tax, and why it is necessary to wait four years to provide a relief in the housing tax. I don't know if this last article was an appeal to Creation. The case is settled there. Presumably, there is good reason to believe that the Creation makes the same decision as Odelstinget. So the Minister of Finance and the Government must respect the fact that there is no decision because there is no majority in favour of a new tariff system. Then you have to relate to what you have. In any case, it would have to be done even if a new tariff system had been adopted, because it would not come into force until 2005. So in other words, we are now discussing on the equal basis of today's tariff system. And my question is: why does the Minister of Finance think that there is no reason for any relief in housing taxation based on the 2002 budget, when he appeals for relief in the Stortinget, to the Government's 2005 proposal for relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e260	The 2002 budget is now due to be presented in mid-October. However, the Workers' Party's proposal is to present a new tax system which will be fair and which will have the effect that when it is implemented, such relief will be provided as the one described. Then I have to repeat, even though it is said in Odelstinget, that I am not less surprised that the representative Foss is going to go up to those who live in blocks on the Stoves and explain to them that, well, the Right chose that, despite this safety valve that Right wants to deposit, you would pay NOK 2000 in the house tax, while with the Workers' Party's arrangement 94 pst. – 19 out of 20 – by those who live in blocks in this country, no house tax. It's a choice the right has made. When they did not receive their principal proposal, the right has chosen to reject the Workers' Party's proposal and to maintain the current system, and they have opted for a subsidiary solution based on a market price that requires individual housing to be taxed. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e267	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e270	It's better that 10 out of 10 owner-occupiers drop out than six out of 10 owner-occupiers drop out of the house tax. Therefore, I would like to have an answer to the question I have now intended to ask, and not an explanation of how the Minister of Finance interprets the views of the Progress Party on housing taxes. What the Minister of Finance said in his first reply to the representative Foss was that what we discussed was a new tax system, and that one of the results of it was SEK 1.5 billion in relief, and it could almost seem as if the Minister of Finance thought it was a bit of an unfortunate side effect that there was actually some tax relief as a result of the introduction of a new tax system. If, on the other hand, the Workers' Party really believes that it is necessary to provide relief in housing taxes, why is it so important to wait until 2005 for it to be taxed and not start introducing it already in 2002? If the aim is to make things easier for most people who live in blocks, as the Minister of Finance said so nicely, if it is important, it must be more important to implement it from 2002 than to pretend to do it first in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e280	What we're talking about now is whether you get a new system or not. It is not the level discussion that has been central to the issue of the new tax system. We've said that as a result of the new system, we're making changes that give such a result. And then every year there'll be a discussion about what level you want to have. The representative has a completely wrong starting point, because the representative Jensen says it is better that ten out of ten drop house taxes than that six out of ten drop house taxes, but that is not the alternative here. The Progress Party and the Right have opted for one in ten to drop house tax, because they did not get through 10 out of 10 to drop it. So they chose to continue a system that makes one in ten drop house taxes instead of six out of ten. That's what was the result of the vote at Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e287	Selected Response City Haugland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e290	Now, once again, when we don't get our will through, we're often forced to take the next best solutions. In the debate last day, I actually marked a pretty deep commitment from the Workers' Party's representatives, with concern for what people had to pay in housing taxes. In other words, we have chosen to support a proposal that removes the worst peaks. Now I hear from the answers given by the Council of State that he is actually trying to red tape this proposal. And then my simple question is to the Council of State – whether he can answer on his own behalf or on his people’s behalf: If homeowners feel that they pay incredibly much more housing tax than what they see their neighbors pay for about the same house, as we know, does the Council of State not believe that people themselves would sympathize with getting a price on their house, so that they can review it again? Would not even the Council of State want to do that if he paid twice as much as the neighbor for a rather like house? And - should one necessarily red tape such a proposal, as the Council of State does? Here I actually think people themselves want to clean up in their own situation. Does not the Council of State have the confidence that he believes they too will do so to pay less taxes on housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e297	I ask the same question as the representative of Svarstad Haugland. Because I also think the natural starting point is that if you don't get what you think is best, you take what's next best. But what was incredible during the treatment in Odelstinget was that the individual parties, when they didn't get what they thought was best, took what was worst, that is, a continuation of today's system, instead of choosing the second best solution, which in my view was the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV, seen from the Christian People's Party. Then the representative raises questions about bureaucracy. That's exactly what we've been trying to avoid through the new tax system. We have put forward a proposal that is so simple that if you know what the square meter rate and the age of the dwelling is, you can calculate the tax yourself without any problem. The option that the Right now comes with, and that I understand that the Christian People's Party is considering voting for, has as a device that one should take as a starting point the market price. But how do you set the market price? The market price depends on what land you have, what view you have, how clean the dwelling is, etc. It's obvious that this is a very bureaucratic system. And the market price varies as we know it from year to year, so why not take a simple system based on the square meter rate around the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e304	But that's not what I asked for!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e309	New questions need to come to new times. The President would remind us of speaking time and the rules of the Storting and hope that the eagerness will not be too strong. Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e316	"Clip, cut" in one of our folk adventures is becoming more important after we have heard the Minister of Finance here today. What it has been possible to establish is that the Minister of Finance's promise of DKK 1.5 billion in housing tax relief is not a promise for this big-scale election fight, but a promise for the 2004 big-time election fight, because the relief will come in 2005. The point of the Right proposal is that we will end the entire housing tax in the next major period, so that the election promise of the Minister of Finance for 2005 will be of little interest. But the Minister of Finance has been out there promising housing taxes in the past. In 1997, the Labour Party said that they should not increase the housing tax, after agreeing with the Centre Party, because the housing tax system was so terribly unfair. Since then, the Workers' Party has proposed 45 pst. increase of housing tax on a very unreasonable basis, where dwellings are treated differently. Can the Minister of Finance promise that the Workers' Party for the autumn will not promote additional housing tax cuts in its budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e325	The right has an excellent ability to say that they do not make changes in the housing tax when they are in opposition, but I think it is most relevant to look at what is practice. Right in government and increased the housing rate in 1982 by 10 p.m., in 1983 by 10 p.m., in 1984 by 10 p.m., in 1985 by 10 p.m. and in 1986 by 10 pst. Then they were in opposition for some years, and then they were opposed. In 1990 they returned to the government position, and then they were for an increase of 10 pst. Then they were out a few years, but in 1998 they made a budgetary settlement with the Bondevik government, and then there was an increase of 5 pst. I think it might be reasonable for the Right to bring with it its close past before they criticize others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e330	But the answer, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e335	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e338	When the Minister of Finance criticises the Right to have increased the tax base in his own time, account must be taken of the fact that it was before the Right decided to abolish the benefit tax on housing. The question raised by the representative Burnde was: What will the Workers' Party do next year? Is it the case that the Workers' Party will also increase the housing tax for ordinary people next year, or can the Minister of Finance now give clear notice that one will not increase the housing tax but, on the contrary, put it down, as other parties have promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e346	Let me first point out that the increase from the Right in 1998 was after the Right so-called new decision – just so that the representative and I can agree on it. As for the budget for next year, I have not intended to present it until the beginning of October. I have no immediate plans for any increase in the housing tax in connection with this. But the budget is presented in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e353	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e356	There was a full sale in this room two days ago that today's housing tax system is too bad, but it was not possible to collect multiples for a new model. Now it seems that there will be multiples for a protective valve that removes the worst tags and the worst impacts of today's taxiing system. We note with some wonder that this securing valve is trying to represent the working party as so very bureaucratic that he is impossible. But that's weird. When a multiple thinks that this is an improvement that can take away the worst results of today's model, my question is: is it that the Labour Party doesn't want models other than its own, that one won't be involved in anything that can improve today's model, but rather will keep the bad one that we have today, when one doesn't get a pass for its own model?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e363	No, by no means. We have been willing to find solutions during work in Stortinget. I find that unfortunately it was not possible to achieve such a result. The Labour Party will of course consider the proposals that other parties had to have, but we think it is sad that it was not possible to change the system that would have given us a fairer system of taxation, a simpler system of taxation and a system from which people could in a simple way have calculated the fare. I believe that the system that we have today needs to be changed, and I hope that it will be a better basis at a later stage to join the Stortingen to make such changes. So that's how I answered the previous question, that we're not going to increase the housing rate for next year. We believe it is right to propose a tax system in line with what we proposed in Stortinget a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e372	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e375	I understand that it takes time to lick wounds after what happened in Odelstingen a few days ago, but now we have to put it behind us and relate to the reality that there is no majority for a new tariff system. We're left with an old and bad fare system anyway. Then there's a relapse position to correct the worst inequalities. It is a proposal promoted by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left that we have now heard get the support of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and thus will have a majority. With the strong words the Minister of Finance has used here, does that mean that he will have problems living with such a proposal if it is adopted? What will he do if, in a few days' time, such a decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e380	Then, of course, I will take note of the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e385	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e388	Like many others, I also think it's bad that we haven't managed to reach an agreement on a pricing system. In 1997, the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed on a common approach based on completely different principles than the one put forward by the Government today. What I think the Minister of Finance is going to have a chance to explain today is this: if it is that the system that the Government has now proposed, in contrast to what was agreed with the Central Party in 1997, is as simple as the Government wants it to be, and that the information on the housing area is available for the vast majority of dwellings – I do not think the Minister of Finance has answered well enough the questions that have been raised here in the past – why is it then necessary to let another four-five years go by in order to obtain information and set in motion a system where, according to the Government's own proposal, this information already exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e395	I think we should have respect for the fact that there are a large number of dwellings that need to be fixed a fare. If I don't remember very well, it's about 2 million homes to have a fare. That's a very large number. Only setting a rate for each case — even if there are simple calculations to be made on the basis of the known size of the dwelling — is the reason why it takes some time to implement such a new system. I don't want to deny the possibility of deploying additional resources to implement this at an even earlier time, but it obviously requires additional resources than is initially foreseen. With the resource allocation we assumed in the proposition, it will be clear from the fiscal year 2005 onwards, in the context of the pre-delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e402	The President assumes that we're now done with the appraisal so far, and we're moving on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e406	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question. First we got a year ago a round in which the Government went in for polluting gas power plants. Then the Prime Minister created some confusion about Norway after Bush’s no was willing to follow up the climate agreement regardless of what the United States is doing. Thirdly, we have now been notified of a climate notification in May that has not yet arrived. Fourth, there is uncertainty about what measures the Government is going to propose, as we do not know what is in the climate communication and when it comes. So there's a lot of uncertainty about the government really taking the climate problems seriously. The government has referred the entire debate on climate action to the notification. When the Government has announced in Stortinget that it will come in May and has not notified the Stortinget that the climate announcement will be postponed, the climate announcement must come tomorrow. My question to the Minister for Environmental Protection is therefore: Can she today say that the climate report will come tomorrow, and what will be the Government's line in following up our own commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e415	I can't see that there's any reason to doubt the Government's follow-up of our commitments to the Kyoto Protocol and our international commitment to the truly tough work now to base that protocol on the further climate cooperation internationally. I can also assure the representative Frafjord Johnson that we are working to deliver the climate message, as we promised, during the spring/summer, and we will do it around Sankthans. With regard to Stortingen's position on this, I also recall that the Government has provided two other environmental impact assessments, on open-air policy and biodiversity. They were submitted on 27 April, and they have not been given the opportunity to deal with the Stortinget because of the strong labour pressure that is here. I can therefore not see that there is any difference for the Storting whether the climate report is presented at some point around Sankthans, but it is the Government's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e422	In order for the Storting to have a debate, we need a counterparty. As long as the government always refers the debate on climate action to this quota notification, it is difficult to have a debate. That is why it is important for that message to come. I must also say that it is contrary to Stortingen's legislation if the Government has not notified the Stortinget that it will be exposed. We have not been formally informed in the committee that the notification of climate change and allowances is being postponed. It says it's coming in May. I note that it will not come tomorrow. The message must then be sent to Stortinget immediately. Secondly, what measures will the Government take? It may seem that there is disagreement in the Government, or that one is not quite afraid to promote this message, since it has been exposed for such a long time. My question is, with reference also to the EU's top environmental body, EEA's strong criticism of Norway yesterday, where it operates with Norway as one of Europe's climate hosts: what action will the Government take? Firstly, can you say in the notice that you are ratifying the agreement, and secondly, that you are fulfilling the obligations regardless of what the United States is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e431	The government's work on climate issues will be based on Norway's following up on the commitments we have made through the Kyoto Protocol. Action in the short and long term related to this objective will be presented in the communication. They will focus on measures in the various sectors. They will be concerned, for example, with: the strengthening of technology and the conversion of energy policy. Of course, we will also follow up the international work on climate and the instruments prescribed under the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e436	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e439	The government's management of climate policy is hesitant and defensive. Firstly, it is unclear how much of the commitments under the Kyoto Agreement are to be taken into account in national action. So the Prime Minister says that the targets will be diluted as a result of what President Bush has said. And so now the climate announcement, as announced, does not come in May. Now it is time for the government to get out of the bush in climate policy and contribute to this becoming a central theme in the election campaign. When this is postponed again, I guess that's because the cost of complying with the Kyoto agreement appears to be significant. Has the work on the climate communication shown that the increased costs for the transport sector and other industries, if a polluting gas power plant is supplied, are so large that it also appears to the Government as a poor response to the challenges we face?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e446	I am absolutely convinced that climate issues will be an important theme in the election campaign. It was just supposed to be missing. With regard to the Storting's handling of these questions, I can't see that the government's work on the climate communication changes this. In any case, it would not have been a treatment of that message in this big business. Climate policy must take action in different sectors, such as transport, oil and energy. And it has to be about working with other countries, so that the measures in Norway actually have a role to play in limiting climate change emissions, and not unilaterally destroying the Norwegian industry at home. There is a scheme in line with this government working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e453	Brother Yngve Rahm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e456	It's a pretty eye-catching response that the Council of State gives to both the representative Frafjord Johnson and Gunnar Kvassheim. The government announced a case to Stortinget within a given time frame, but now the Council of State answers that it cannot be so dangerous if this deadline is not met. It's a strange way to approach the Storting. As the situation is, not least in relation to what Hilde Frafjord Johnson referred to in the newspaper yesterday, national action is urgent. The climate notification is urgent, so we have a counterparty to discuss with. My question to the Council of State to follow up on this is: Can the Council of State say something more concrete than 'round sankthanst times' and that it doesn't mean so much to the Storting when it comes? Can e.g. The Council of State guarantees that the Stortinget will receive this message before the Stortinget disintegrates on 15 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e465	As I said, the government will provide the climate message during the summer, as we have previously announced. Some date fixing of this I am not going to do here today. We're going to put this forward, and we're going to look at the climate issue as one of the most important. I am absolutely convinced that this will be the subject of the election campaign and that we will have the necessary discussions on all the concrete measures necessary for Norway to follow up its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e472	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e476	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. On the radio this morning, I noticed that the Prime Minister said that he believed that one reason for the Workers' Party's great decline was the focus on tax. I guess that might be. But there are, of course, pieces of tax policy where the Workers' Party should be more offensive than it is, and it's about taxes on sickness. The Right Party and the Advance Party, but unfortunately also the Labour Party, have repeatedly put forward proposals for increased self-esteem in almost all sectors of Norwegian society. The Central Statistical Office published a new survey today showing that chronically ill people pay NOK 24 000 per year in various forms of sickness tax. Unfortunately, this tax has increased, independently of governments, but this is a tax that is particularly right-wing in Norwegian policy. Now the finance minister has started a new exercise in leaking from the state budget already here in the spring session, this time on housing taxes. Then I would like to challenge him: will he ensure that in the state budget for the autumn there is a reduction in the self-payment for chronically ill people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e485	I think it makes sense to wait with the state budget until the state budget comes. What has been the government's starting point is that we have to have a tax system for prosthetics, which is so that those who are major consumers, who need a lot of drugs on which there is a propensity, get limited loads. The number of people coming under this ceiling has increased sharply in recent years. This shows that the ceiling is an effective limit on costs, and here we have set aside limited increases, including: in the budget for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e492	Yes, this was one of the biggest non-answers I have heard in a long time. It didn't say anything. The finance minister started instead with a whole new exercise. He said he should not have increased the house tax until the fall. It was really possible to clarify it. My challenge to the Minister of Finance was this: there is self-payment – i.e. tax – on sickness. There are taxes in school even — we also have self-payment in school. We have self-payment in the sector by sector in which according to the law it should not be self-payment in, and we have ever-increasing thanks. More and more of the municipality's revenues are derived from different forms of self-payment. Here's a tax on sickness, not taxes on wealth, that SV wants, and here SV and the Workers' Party should have the opportunity to find each other. My challenge is very clear: this has risen year after year, and if you want some offensive tax measures, as the Prime Minister of today's radio interview may have called for, this will well be an opportunity for the Minister of Finance to perhaps get a little more on the offensive. And SV wants to challenge: Get the self-payment down on illness! Will the Minister of Finance be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e501	The government has put in place a scheme in which we want to limit the excesses in the case of disease, by having an effective roofing system. Of course, we're going to go on with that. In this year's budget, we added to changes in the balance of payments, among other things. in the case of training institutions. Some peculiarities actually went down. I think the roofing system here is very central, and that's why we've put a lot of emphasis on limiting the growth of the roof. And it seems today to be a significant restriction on the payment of prowess for those who are chronically ill and have a great need for medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e508	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e511	The Minister of Finance's answer gives cause for concern. He actually seems happy that in the system that now has, he is able to screen those who pay the most. But then the statistical central agency's overview now shows exactly the opposite. So here's an average payment for the large consumers of $24,000 on their own behalf. The Minister of Finance had the opportunity to bring about a fairer system. The center administration starts an arrangement with a roof 1 for us – we'll say – common users in this field, and a roof 2 for chroniclers and disabled people. That arrangement has been abandoned by the Minister of Finance after protests from the disabled people’s organisations and many other user organisations. Will he bring it up again and in such a way as to sympathize with justice in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e518	Now I assume that the representative Meltveit Kleppa knows from his background that it is not the Minister of Finance who is the specialist council for the issue of ownership. But this does not prevent the Government for its part from reaching a conclusion to which the representative here refers. So the equivalent of that is that we produced a budget where we also reduced the proportion in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e523	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e526	At a time when an auctioning away tax credits, there is good reason to take prostheses seriously, which the finance minister does not with the answer he gave to Øystein Djupedal. In the education sector, too, there is a strong trend towards increased self-esteem. A survey conducted by Opinion shows that between 1997 and 2001 there is a doubling of the proportion ofparticipants, and they now account for an average of about a quarter of the total. 500 kroner per month. family. We also have examples that children cannot afford to participate in the activities that are compulsory for the school and for the class. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Does this concern him? Is he concerned about this development? And if he's worried, does he see the need to do anything about this? Can we expect the Government to make proposals that limit the excesses? Because there will be the consequences of tax relief, which is now being auctioned away, as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e533	The link that the representative points out between, inter alia: Right-hand proposals on large tax credits and what comes out in the form of municipal fees and probabilities, I think it is very important to point out. I believe that a counterpart of the tax law policy presented by the Right would be an increase in substantial ownership in the municipal sector. So to the core of the question, yes, evolution worries me. I believe that it is very worrying and not acceptable that we have a development in which some children cannot participate in joint activities at school because there are peculiarities to them. Yes, the government will do something about it. The government will follow up the National Government of the Workers' Party decision that we should have a primary school free of excesses. We're going to follow that up. It is also mentioned in the long-term programme, so that the Workers' Party is very conscious that we want to ensure a fair distribution in relation to the school. That's why we have to have a primary school that's free of props.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e540	Selected Response City Haugland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e544	Yes, I am aware that there is only one supplementary question, so I hope that the Council of State will answer my question this time. Governments said that when it comes to training institutions, the property has fallen. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that yes, there were some things that went down at the turn of the year, but when the budget is audited, it's gone up again. There is something we need to look at in the context of budgetary management. When I hear from the Council of State's response to the previous question, and also to the answer to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, I am aware that there is another expert council that has to do with the properties of the health care system, but I am also very aware that if a specialist council is going to get through, he must have the Minister of Finance with him. So my specific question is: does the Minister of Finance not see the positive of a worker working for an element 2, so that one can actually get rid of the worst kind of high cost to property when it comes to health? And can the Council of State join in and back up the Minister of Health in the face of the fact that a pillar 2 should be worked out and put into action, so that we can actually help those who need it the most with regard to the different characteristics we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e553	In the case of equity participation 2, the representative is probably familiar with the statement made by the Government in the budget that there are practical problems in obtaining such a solution. So the opposite of that is that we reduced the prowess in some areas. Unlike how you look at the involvement of the SVs, the Central Party and the Workers' Party, I am amazed when representatives from the Christian People's Party raise questions about sickness. After all, the Christian People's Party is in favour of tightening up the sick pay system, together with the Advance Party, with the Right and with the Left. But what really matters to those who are sick? It is whether they have the possibility of retaining their wages under sickness or whether they will have significant reductions in it. We have provided a calculation that shows that if you add e.g. If the right-hand model is taken into account, the discount will be at least NOK 4800 in the disease tax for a person with an average industrial worker income. If he's sick for a whole year, the result will be NOK 32 000. This is a tax on sickness, a tax that the Christian People's Party will introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e562	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e565	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. For almost one year, the Minister of Finance has had the application for the conversion of savings banks into limited liability companies under consideration. For three and a half years, he replied that he was waiting for the Saving Bank Association's statement. It has now been in place for two months. In the Left, we have not had the slightest problem of taking a stand on this matter on the basis of principle and ideology because we know that transformation will lead to the final swallowing of the savings banking system by the commercial banks. We know that everything that can be purchased will be purchased. We see in Sweden that 100 savings bank branches will now be closed. What the finance minister knows is that if he says no, he gets a majority by using the Left and the other two central parties. My question is simply: what is the Minister of Finance reluctant to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e572	The specific matter raised by the representative is a very complex and difficult matter. I have no problem raising the issue related to the nature of savings banks. On the other hand, it is an important issue that one of Norway’s largest financial institutions expresses difficulties in obtaining adequate access to capital if they do not change the form of organisation. It's not an obvious answer to this question. We have placed great emphasis on the ability of the savings bank industry itself to express its views. They have created a broad process. It has resulted in a majority voting for the granting of access to transformation. I noticed that. I'm assessing the case. I haven't taken my position, and it will still go some time before the position will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e581	I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Finance at one moment is showing spontaneity towards the financial industry when the issue of the sale of Storebrand to the rest of the world comes up. It is a field where the Minister of Finance does not have any legal instruments at his disposal, but in the case of the conversion of savings banks into limited liability companies he knows that the Stortinget will decide this in a legal way. When, in the background of everything we can see around us, we know that transforming savings banks into limited liability companies is another nail in the district box, I have to say it surprises me that the Minister of Finance continues to push this question ahead of him. For me, the main question now is: is it that the Minister of Finance has intended to let District Norway hover in uncertainty about what the Workers' Party finally decides and settles the matter with? Is it the case that this should be decided only after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e588	What the representative here is saying is that his party believes that it has a better position for the savings banking industry than the savings banking industry itself thinks it has. Here it is not clear which conclusion is the right one. It's a question that I've expressed that we will consider very carefully. This also means, of course, that I had no prior conclusion before the savings banking industry made its recommendation. I've registered it. I've had a meeting with Mutual NOR. I've met the employees of Mutual NOR. I have met with other savings bank representatives, the Saving Bank Association, and I have recently received a statement on the SAVE Bank Association's position. I will take this with me in the further treatment, but it will still take some time before the conclusion is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e593	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e596	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. It's a look today in the Newspaper, where the headline is, "We don't starve on the paper...". It is Hilde Brandsberg, who is exhausted, who tells us that she has inherited all her clothes, she has not been in cinema since 1986, she has a pasta and bread every day. She is one of several members of a project established in 1998 in Sagene-Torshov, under the direction of the previous government. The project leader says: ‘Today, it is clear that the arrangements are too poor’. Now, Stortinget has managed the long-term programme and thus also said something about the action plan for the follow-up to the Equalisation Communication. Does the Minister of Finance want to force the follow-up and the sycamore to do something now for those who have the most difficulty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e608	The Government will follow up the Action Plan on Social and Economic Security in the budget for next year and in subsequent years. In this way, there's no need to supply it, we're already in the process of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e613	The messages that have arrived from the Labour Party so far in this area are for the first time a continuation of three actions that were proposed in the anti-smooth message, which the center administration started before the message was handled by Stortinget. The three measures have been followed up by the Labour Party in the 2001 budget. So, in the long-term programme, the government has compiled an overview of the actions proposed in the Equalisation Communication, to which the Stortingeet gave its support for a year back and said it would be implemented over the next four years. It doesn't work for those who have the most difficulty in our country, for those who are in the same situation as Hilde Brandsberg, who get paid $2,300 per. md. of which she shall live. I ask the Minister of Finance to be more specific in relation to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e619	The Labour Party believes that it is very important to take action so that those with the most difficulty in this society can get a better daily life, get back to work, and have a good housing offer. We have put this into practice through a separate action plan on economic and social protection, which has been presented to the Stortinget. Of course, we will follow up on this action plan. So if the representative thinks it's going too slowly, it must be allowed to remember that the representative himself has been a social minister for 21⁄2 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e626	Øyvind Vaksdal gets the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e629	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Yesterday’s newspaper read that the world’s largest energy waster is the Nordics. According to the paper, the EU's top environmental body, the EEA, takes a strong deal with Norwegian energy policy and claims that Norway uses almost twice as much electricity as our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, where the climate is very similar to our own. In addition, it is claimed that each Norwegian uses four times more electricity than the average citizen in the EU. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: does he agree that the Nordics are Europe's largest power losers, and what action will he take if he believes the criticism from the EEA is justified?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e638	I have read the newspaper, but I must state that I have not read the report. It is clear that Norway is one of the world's most electricity-using countries. But then the question is, is it good or is it bad? In many ways I'm going to say that's good. What matters is the total energy consumption per person. a resident or in a normal family. Norway is at a level with or a little below what our neighbouring countries use in total energy, but they use energy carriers other than electricity. They use more oil than we use, and they have more access to water-borne heat, not least because they are more centralised than what we do in Norway. In Norway, a normal household uses an average of 65 psts. electricity. It's a very high number, but I have to remind you that this electricity comes from renewable energy sources, unlike our neighbouring countries, which are taking large parts of their energy from fossil energy sources, which, in my view, is much worse. It is possible that the daily newspaper has a correct report disclosure, but in that case I would like to distance myself from the fact that this is only a problem. But then, of course, it's a problem that we have some growth in our energy use, and we have to try to do something about it. We will discuss the Government's policy to change this later today. It is clear that we in Norway have made too much dependence on rainfall, that therefore there is also a reason to try to turn the consumption so that we are less dependent on electricity for heating, and that we have access to other energy carriers. It is important that when we make these choices, we not only have to think about twisting energy, but also where energy comes from, and that there are renewable energy sources in our total energy consumption as far as possible. We're already on the top of the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e647	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Energy consumption in Norway is no larger than in our neighbouring countries, and if we also adjust for climate differences, it is also no larger than the EU average. The difference between Norway and other countries, as the Council of State said, is that the share of electricity is much higher in Norway than in the countries with which we normally compare. I would therefore say, like the Council of State has already said, that Norway has a much more sensible energy consumption than other countries, since the current we have comes largely from pollution-free power plants. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he will refute the negative claims made by the EEA that we are the worst in the class, as we have a much better and more environmentally friendly energy production than the other country has.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e656	Now I can't confirm that the EEA has said that we're the worst in the class. But if it's just that they've shown statistically that we use more electricity than others, it's the right thing to do. Then it becomes an assessment question whether it's good or bad. In my view, it is positive because that electricity comes from cleaner energy sources than what is alternatively used in other countries. Then, of course, we want to investigate what appears in the report. This report is only one of many reports. The International Energy Agency (IEA) has statistics that show that we are at the level with or below what our neighbours use in terms of total energy consumption. But it's the composition of energy consumption that's different. Since we in Norway use a lot of electricity, it should of course also be possible to save and use it more effectively than is the case today. I mean, we have a great potential. We shall try to exploit it, but all this will be debated later here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e665	The time for the oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e679	The Turning Service for doctors trained in Norway as well as abroad and required to provide medical services in Norway is mandatory. The Turnus service is one year in the hospital and half a year in the districts of the municipal health service. Everyone must have a tour service to obtain an authorisation. The same applies to doctors outside the EEA territory, but the EEA Agreement currently has an agreement whereby doctors with foreign authorisation in the EEA territory will also receive it in Norway even if they have not performed Norwegian tour services. Without authorisation, you will not be able to work independently as a doctor in Norway. The Turning Service is medical work under special guidance and follow-up, and is primarily about being in a working relationship and no longer a student. There are regulations and a detailed description of the measures to be taken by the tour operators. What has been the problem and which has been growing in recent years is that there seems to be a quite significant shortage in turn spots, at least if the target description and quality requirements are still to be met. Based on the numbers I per. Today received from the Medical Association, there will be a lack of 40 turns from 1 January 2002. The State Health Care Authorisation Office, which was recently established and is under State Health Supervision, is responsible for finding places and distributing places for the Tournament Doctors. The pressure on the hospitals is now reported by the Medical Association to be so high that it affects the quality of the service. There is a fairly good overview of the state of Norwegian hospitals, and there appear to be quite similar figures from the Medical Association and from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. However, there may seem to be some poorer overview in the districts, also in relation to the introduction of the fixed medical system, and there may be some uncertainty about the total number you want over time. The figures given to me, which are to be somewhat coincident with those of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and of the Medical Association — and the Minister of Health may confirm or cancel them afterwards — show that between 800 and 850 doctors are being trained each year when taking aggregates from Norway and the rest of the world, and the figure seems to be quite stable in the future. However, the number of foreign doctors returning home is uncertain. In Norway today it is approx. 280 inhabitants per year. occupational doctor. The trend suggests that the figure will be approximately 220 inhabitants per year. a doctor in 2015, thus making it clear that we will have an increasing medical density in Norway. Compared to the other Nordic countries, Norway now has the highest medical density. In Denmark, figures are expressed as 340 per capita. doctors today, and that figure will be about the same in 2015. In Sweden, the figure is approx. 320, and will be about the same in 15 years, and in Finland 330, and somewhat unchanged, while in Norway we have an increase in density. It can in itself be positive if you have a need for more medical services and you can also continue to ensure the quality of those services. But that's exactly what's here the problem and the reason why I'm taking this up in an interpellation. What you see in relation to the places where you walk in hospitals is that it primarily affects the quality of your service. The target descriptions are becoming more difficult and difficult to meet, and in some places it has also been considered not to approve the tour service. There is some uncertainty about the capacity of Norwegian hospitals. One estimate I've heard, also that's the number the Medical Association states, is that it's approx. 650 places for interns in hospitals, even when considering quality requirements, including description of the purpose of the tour service. If all the medical students, including those who are trained abroad, were to return home, it would mean that in 2015 there would be a shortage of places based on quality criteria for between 150 and 200 doctors, and that is very dramatic. That means you have to have a growth of one-third in addition to the number of places you have today. The deficiency may be even greater provided that everyone returns home and you also get doctors outside the EEA area who are going to work in Norway and who want to complete the tour service here. The question may then be when the problems associated with the tour service are so great, which is why it should still be maintained. In my view, there are three major reasons for that. One is that the authorisation requirement for the provision of the tour service represents a quality guarantee. It is important not least for Norwegian patients. It is certain that the doctor you are coming to has a practical experience with which quality is required, and where you have the necessary insight before you have to work on your own. Of course, it is also important for the group as a professional identity. If quality requirements are weakened and you have very different requirements, depending on which country you come from, it will, in a sense, undermine the professional requirements and in a way the trust in the profession. The Turning Service is also important to provide medical practice and routine from the start of your professional career. It can be seen that the examination is required today, there is a requirement for practical experience and there is a requirement for suitability for the profession. And of the three requirements, it's especially that with practical experience and suitability that's important. The policy will only be able to pass through the tour service to the extent expected, and the assessment of suitability will primarily be through the tour service. Therefore, the Tournament Service must be practical medical work under guidance, and therefore there must also be enough guides and sufficient practical experience. A third point is that the Tournament Service also provides doctors with a common basis for communication and interaction, a common understanding through the guidance given in the Tournament Service, which is taken further into account in the profession. The main problem today is the quality of the tour service. Tournament doctors are given a reduced time and are not allowed to take part, among other things. night shifts. It has also been underlined by several tour operators that night work is so scarce that the quality of the service is impaired, because much of the emergency training is caused by night-time incidents in the hospitals. You have to write a journal, and of course you have guidance either by an assistant or superior. However, when much of the work falls away, the practical experience that could otherwise have been provided with continuous work throughout the day also goes away, by being there only in the usual daytime, as often the resource situation at the hospital is such that the tourists do little to avoid it. There are some hospitals, such as hospitals. at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, seen that there has been a reduction in the time spent working with the Tournament doctors, thereby weakening the content of the service. At the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, the compensation received for the Tournaments was a significant argument. It is also seen that the effort-driven funding is helping to reinforce the problem. Because when you don't have a framework finance, but it's the productivity that brings income to the hospital, it's hard to operate with guidance, because it'll be at the expense of the income that that doctor would give to the hospital if he was in so-called productive work. Turning doctors are initially a resource, but are now more and more viewed as a disability, not least in the context of the hospital funding scheme. Of the measures that I would like to emphasise here that one should at least look at, it is possible to carry out an evaluation of the tour service as soon as possible. I know that the Medical Association has asked the Minister of Health to carry out that task in writing. That question was answered last year. As far as I understand it, the Council of State has expressed through its response that an evaluation must be carried out, without having placed the responsibility for where it is going to happen, somewhere, and of course you can have different views on that. It is important to start such an evaluation, not only on how to ensure the number of places, but on how to ensure the quality of service based on a purpose description. If one is not to stick to today's purpose description, it may be necessary to argue why it needs to be changed if it is to be lowered. I have heard an argument that says that for foreign students today there is a fee grant scheme that represents a problem because of the very large amount of foreign students, and that you should look at the fee grant scheme. In this case, of course, there should be no retroactive effect. This ensures that those taking training today receive continuous training without weakening the basis for completing that education. Furthermore, one could look at a tour site guarantee scheme for those admitted to the study and ensure a continuous system, so that there is no uncertainty for the individual student. It is very important to discuss the content of the service. I also think it is important to discuss it in relation to the person who will manage the distribution of the service, where this office should actually be located, but I will come back to that, since my time is now running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e721	The representative Ballo refers to the signals from the Medical Association and Norwegian Medical Student Association on the imbalance between the number of medical candidates who want to take turns in Norway and the number of turns available. He points out that according to the Medical Association, there will be a clear undercover in Tournaments in 2002. There has been a large increase in the number of turnips in the last three to four years, from 320 in 1997 to about 200 in 1997. 600 in 2000. The forecasts show that the number of turn doctors will increase further, to approx. 750 in 2004. This is a desired development and result of increased study capacity in Norway and of the use of ‘acquired places’ and ‘fee grant places’ for Norwegian medical students abroad. The incoming Tournament Service Announcements starting on 15 January 2002 have recently been reviewed. The total number of registered candidates is about 340. This figure is slightly higher than the forecast and is mainly due to the fact that the number of Norwegian foreign students seeking the tour services in Norway is higher than expected. I have been informed that all current candidates starting on 15 January 2002 have been allocated space. The same applies to those who end their tour in a hospital in January and then start a tour of the municipal health service. So far, the situation for 2002, in other words, seems to be satisfactory. In the case of the second half of 2002, a new allocation will be made for the harvest. It is only then that it is possible to give a full description of the balance between the needs and the number of places. Both the State Office for Health Personnel and the State Health Inspectorate are constantly monitoring developments and providing regular feedback to the Ministry. The need for multiple doctors suggests that the number of turns should also be increased in the future. This requires, in particular, two assumptions: firstly, that a sufficient number of turns can be organised to meet the content requirements of the tour service and, secondly, that resources be allocated to the specialist health service, i.e.: hospitals may pay and provide guidance on the number of turn doctors allocated to them every six months and may compensate municipalities for additional costs by receiving turn doctors. It follows from the Health Services Act that the health institution covered by the law has obligations to participate in the education and training of health professionals, apprentices, students, tour applicants and specialists. According to the second paragraph of Section 3-5, the Ministry may lay down rules on the obligation of health institutions to participate in education and training. In Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001, on the Health Business Act, etc., it is proposed to continue the provisions of the Special Health Service Act with some changes to the applicable law. A provision is proposed for regional health enterprises to ensure that the needs for the education and training of health professionals, apprentices, students, turnaround candidates and specialists are met within the region. In addition, a provision is proposed to allow the Ministry to lay down rules on the obligation to participate in education and training, including the duty of private health institutions. A working group of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health recently examined and proposed solutions for the Tournament Service. The working group was broadly composed, with representatives from the supervisory authorities, the local authorities' central association, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Medical Association and NTNU. An overall working group believes that the number of turns can be increased while maintaining the requirements for the contents of the tour service. The working group states that it is important to provide the best possible facilities for the reception of turn doctors, and that this is the case in the case of hospitals, among others. can be achieved by improving the financial conditions for the receipt of tour operators and by introducing a scheme in which the money follows the tour operator. In addition, a waiting regime is proposed for some of the tour doctors, so that both hospitals and municipalities are given more predictability in the number of turn doctors they are awarded from six months to six months. It is assumed that no one should wait more than six months to start the tour service. The working group has also prepared draft new rules on medical tour services. The draft regulation includes, inter alia: clarification of the rights and obligations of the actors in relation to the current regulation. The report of the working party was delivered in December 2000 and sent to the hearing on 15 March this year. As soon as the hearing opinions received have been reviewed and evaluated, I will take the necessary steps to ensure the country's desired number of authorised doctors. I finally remind you of St.prp. No 65 for 2000–01, on changes in the 2001 government budget as a result of the reform of the government, which is now being treated in the United Kingdom. It is proposed to introduce a turn grants for municipalities of NOK 100 00 per year. Turntable, or NOK 200000 per turntable. touring space per. years. This will also help municipalities to set up a sufficient number of tour sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e747	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see the answer as quantitatively possible to ensure the number of places that will be needed, especially at the hospitals, while I am somewhat more uncertain about the answer in terms of quality. I believe that part of the development we are now seeing in the health sector in general is very quantitative, also purely political. You count the number of heads in the queues, you count the number of places in the turn of doctors, you count the number of doctors that you can recruit in the municipalities or in hospitals. We have seen the same thing about getting doctors both from the EEA and outside the EEA, that quality often comes into the background. I think it's very important to discuss how to get enough space, more concretely to look at the quality of the service, and what kind of practice the tourists should have. I want to be a little personal. I studied in Germany myself, and as early as the 1970s there was so much density in Germany of medical students, even in relation to the practical year in which they were supposed to have in Germany, that very many Norwegian students chose to take the turn shift in Norway. This led to the fact that part of the practice you should have – it could be one such thing as implementing a spinal puncture to extract fluid from the spinal tract, it could be such a simple thing as inserting a needle into the arm of a patient to provide the patient with intravenous treatment, or other concrete measures, such as managing intravenous treatment with different medications, of course under the guidance of a doctor with authorisation – many of the toural doctors in Germany were not able to do so, so that one first got it carried out when one came out in practice later and it was really expected that one could. I think some of the situation we are facing today is one of the same situation that was in Germany. The fact that many Norwegian foreign students chose not to take the tour service there is now beginning to signal that there is a problem in Norway. I think that if we don't take those signals seriously, Norwegian medical training and Norwegian guidance from foreign physicians could move towards discredit. I'm not saying you're there today, but you'll be able to get in that situation. It is quite clear that the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and the State Health Authority have a significant responsibility to prevent that situation from occurring and that they are very active in making it visible that they and the quality requirements are to be implemented in order to prevent that situation from occurring. There I would like the Council of State to be clearer than what he was in his first post, although I see that active action is being taken to ensure that there is enough space for purely quantitative comparisons with the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e760	I think the interpellant Ballo is right in that there is a certain risk that quantitative relationships can easily take over from the qualitative content in this area as well. It's a general problem. This applies to the entire healthcare system, but also in many other areas. It may be primarily related to the fact that the quantitative for most people is easier to relate to, it is easier to measure, it is easier to measure development over time, etc., than the qualitative content. It may also be that during periods you have given priority – consciously – to at least manage volume problems, and that during periods you have been able to cope with quality and content costs. As I said, we see this in many areas of healthcare. I agree that we need to be on guard here, and also try to take the necessary measures to ensure that at least there is no unconscious error prioritisation. What I also meant to point out is that it seems so far that we are going to be able to deal with the quantitative challenges of the turns and the balance there. But it's pointed out – and that's what I meant to say – that we have some challenges in organizing this business in a way that gives it a content and quality that does not imply a deterioration, and of course it's also a challenge on the resource side. It is precisely the conditions that we are now also going through on the part of the authorities in the light of the report I mentioned. And I think we should have been through that work during the summer so that, in the course of the harvest's allocation tasks, we can also provide better assessments and, if necessary, take action to prevent a deterioration in the quality of medical education and associated practices in Norway. I'm sure we'll make it. However, further evaluations or investigations may need to be carried out to ensure that we provide the right measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e774	The availability of adequate health professionals in relation to the tasks is one of the main challenges facing us in the country, especially in District Norway. I therefore very much agree with the Council of State that increasing the number of turns must be a desired development, and I will add a necessary development. I also think that the Council of State gave a good overview of the situation, and I thought it was reassuring. Turning offers and practice places for health professionals are very important to ensure good quality of staff and to recruit qualified personnel for all parts of the country. I have several examples of turn doctors who have served in the district councils and who have come back as municipal doctors and have done a stable and good medical service. It is therefore important for municipalities and hospitals to be able to provide the required number of turns. In my opinion, this is also an excellent measure to recruit doctors for the future. But I agree with the Council of State that it is important to provide resources, so that municipalities and hospitals get compensation for the additional expenses by receiving turns doctors, so that they can do that task. We now have a fixed medical system in place, and I am convinced that it will work well when the system begins to work. I take it as a matter of course that the decision-makers must be obliged to take responsibility for the tour operators in their practice, something else will mean an impossible situation. In my opinion, this is something that the municipalities have to take an important responsibility for putting in the system, so that the tour operators get the practice they need, and so that the practice becomes versatile and good. I also have great faith that the new hospital reform will address many health - care issues. I also believe that matters relating to the tour services for health professionals are becoming more transparent with state-owned hospitals. In my view, it must be easier to organise more predictable and uniform arrangements with the State as the owner of the hospitals. I see it as natural that with state ownership of the hospitals they will be seen more together, the country will be seen more together, and access to the tour sites, good distribution of the tour sites and good quality will be easier to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e785	The Turning Service is an important part of medical education and a prerequisite for authorisation. No one who's been through it, I think, would miss that experience. The purpose of the Touring Service is that, through work as a doctor under special guidance, training and supervision, the tour operator shall have the necessary experience and practical routine in order to be able independently to perform normal medical activities properly. Good tour service is an important prerequisite for good doctors. The quality depends, for example, on: adequate number of places with the necessary guidance and adequate and relevant work to provide adequate and relevant experience. The number of medical graduates now exceeds the number of turns, so that the finished doctors are at risk of waiting for turns. I raised this in a written question to the Minister of Health last September. The council then confirmed that a six-year waiting period could become valid, and seemed to accept it. He referred in his response to the working group report to which he also referred today, where this waiting system of up to six months seems to be a proposal, which in my view is not the appropriate use of high and expensive skilled labour. In any case, the quantity of turntables will pose a threat to the quality of the service that will enable the candidate to perform sound medical activities. The need for tour sites is expected to increase to nearly 800 in 2004, i.e. an increase of one third in just four years, and the Medical Association’s Tournament Council believes that the ceiling for the number of candidates with today’s quality assurance is 650. This number is now going to pass. This is serious, because, as I said, the quality of the doctors we are going to have in the future, in view of practical skills and practical experience, which are necessary for proper medical practice in addition to theoretical knowledge. There are no simple solutions to this, but when healthcare reaches the saturation point with regard to turnaround candidates, and Norway has a top-level medical coverage in Europe, we should consider slowing down the intake of the medical study, for example by reducing incentives for medical studies abroad and possibly reducing the number of study places in Norway. On 20 December 1999, the Storting decided to ask the Government to propose measures to increase the capacity of medical training and to add the new places of study to Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. I think the time has passed from this, but that the consequence must be that a reduction in places of study should not affect these faculties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e798	I agree with the interpellant that quality is important, not just quantity. Like Bendiks Arnesen, I believe that a state-wide driving responsibility will make it easier to keep track of and also have an overview of the quality of the tour service. The problem of few turns is not new in Norway. I have been working in a hospital for over 30 years and know about this problem, which has sometimes been present in the past. However, what has happened recently, and which we should also be aware of, is that at least some local hospitals have lost their emergency response function and thus approved tour sites. There is also something we need to consider when talking about the future of the tour sites. There is another thing that is not mentioned here, but I would like to ask questions about, preferably addressed to the Minister of Health. There is a certain situation and a certain requirement as to the size of a hospital, what activity you have, for you to have a tour site approved in a local hospital. The same requirements apply, of course, to the major central hospitals and regional hospitals. However, there is no doubt that in a smaller local hospital with emergency preparedness, the tour candidates get a much better experience and practice in clinical medicine than what a tour candidate gets in a central hospital or a regional hospital, where it is preferable to write journals and participate little in active treatment of patients. This is a very important point that should be considered in the department when awarding and approving local hospital tour sites with full emergency preparedness. In fact, I believe that the number of turns at these hospitals can be significantly expanded compared to the current system, but this has something to do with demands and criteria and also with negotiations. My point in this debate is at least to raise this question and ask for it to be looked at in the future when planning for future turns. Bringing the ISF scheme into this problem is a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e811	As other speakers pointed out, it is clear that the tourists and the tour candidates are a resource and that they should be viewed as such and not as a handicap. I also think it is a bit remarkable that there are so many different interpretations of the predictions regarding problems in this area, but in line with what the Minister for Health said, I think that one should be able to solve these things for the future. That one has good enough turns in relation to quality, that is important, and I fully agree with the interpellant in that. With regard to what has been mentioned here now, about emergency preparedness and small or large hospitals, I share the view that the representative of Alvheim was also involved. I don't think it's the size of the hospital that matters, it's the universality of doctors and the possibility of proper medical guidance. In this context, I would like to mention a little about the community health service and the rotational medical system, because it has probably also been poorly handled in some municipalities. These tournament doctors have often received the status of local B, C or D. It may be good for communities with a lack of medical skills, but if it helps to ensure the quality of the tour service in the primary health service, I am a little uncertain about it. Although it might be a good experience to be thrown out into deep water, there's a way you can go there. So, in relation to the tour service, guidance and professional organisation are also important. So to this with economics and organization. Economics means a lot today, not least in the health care system, and in the case of tour services in particular and education and research in general, I think it is also relevant to talk about input-driven financing and at least about hospital financing. I'm concerned about the economy and the organization of this, because that's something that comes in addition. And unlike the representative of the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party here today, I do not have such expectations and such clockwork in this state hospital reform and this state ownership, that it will also save the tournament candidates. I believe, on the contrary, that the requirement of economics and earnings is a danger in terms of education and research, and also in terms of the practical and guidance services to be provided by the turn candidates for which it is to be organised. At least I want to follow this closely, but I am reasonably satisfied with the health minister's response to the forecasts for the first few years at least, and I agree that we need to look at the turn candidates as a resource and not as a hesitant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e822	It is not surprising that the Central Party believes what the representative of Gløtvold now had to say; we have observed that they are contrary to a state-wide responsibility for hospitals. But I agree with those who have said that this will improve the situation. It is clear that this will provide a better and more efficient service, and that we will get a better overview of the total resources. I am pleased that the representative Ballo has focused on this important area, and I think it was explained in a very good way. The Turning Service is a very important part of medical training, as it is for a number of other professional groups who are on tour in their training in order to ensure good quality and provide the necessary professional safety. I think the Minister of Health presented in a good way the measures to be put into practice, hopefully. I think it's very important to maintain the requirements for the content of the tour service, and that it's not just about quantity. The fact that there will be better financial conditions also for the tourists and the tour sites is important, and an arrangement where the money follows the tour team, I think will be a very good arrangement. Then you don't become dependent on the individual hospital economy, but it will actually be so that the money can follow the Tournament and not be an extra burden on the budgets. The Minister of Health was also in charge of a waiting order for some of the tour doctors, so that hospitals and municipalities can also get more predictability with regard to the number of turn doctors and get a good overview of the allocation that takes place from six months to six months, as I understand it. The Minister of Health also came up with a new regulation to clarify both rights and obligations in relation to the current regulation. I think that is also a very good measure. I have also noticed that the revised national budget sets out the turnaround grants to the municipalities. I think that's very important too. Overall, therefore, I think that the proposals presented by the Minister for Health can help to ensure a good situation for tour operators in the future. I agree with what several have said here, that it is a challenge to organise this service, both in terms of content and quality, and it is important to ensure that there is sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e842	I will briefly comment on some of the contributions that have been made. First, to the state operation of hospitals: that must be what you do, and what you are willing to do in relation to the tour service, which is crucial to the quality of it, whether it is the state or the state that operates. I'm a little tired that some people make it like state operations solve all the problems in themselves, as a sort of sedentary, seductive. The next thing you're going to do is claim that you're going to get full babysitting through state acquisition of the hospitals, or that the weather is getting better because the government is going to run the hospitals. I think you should put it away and then just realize that it's through the commitment that exists, not least from the state, no matter who runs the hospitals, that the quality of that service will be determined. Of course it is! Then Alvheim insisted that the ISF should have nothing to do with the matter. SV is very much in favour of the fixed medical system, but is still open to the conclusion that the fixed medical system can reduce the quality of the tour service if you do not facilitate an appropriate tour service. I think it illustrates a little how poor the overall thinking is in the Progress Party when it is not possible to realise that a system of stimulating productivity for each patient to be treated is important, that it will have consequences in relation to a guidance service if one does not facilitate the framework and funding of the service, differentiates the offer. It's like playing the piano. You can't just press the black keys and say it's going to be music. There won't be any music of that! In terms of part of the other recordings, I agree with many of them. What you have to have is an commitment to this type of service to ensure quality. You have to be open to negative outcomes, no matter what kind of arrangements you have to put in place. In the case of state hospitals, I think it may have both advantages and disadvantages, but it is the willingness of the Great Government to look at negative outcomes that to the seventh and last will be decisive for the success of that kind of reform. If you are not willing to be responsive to recordings that come, whether from trade unions, individuals or patient groups that make negative experiences, including with regard to reforms or proposals that we ourselves have been to, it will evolve in a negative direction. With regard to the representative Næss and this with the capacity for medical training in Norway, I disagree with him. It is clear that in Norway it is an advantage to be able to stand on your own and train your own students and have professional environments, preferably professional environments that want to welcome foreign students. It's going to be very wrong if we're going to base ourselves on the fact that most of the study places are abroad, and that they're the ones we're going to exploit. Therefore, looking at the fee grant scheme is not stupid, while facilitating the number of places needed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e855	I think that this debate has well focused attention on an important issue in ensuring good health care for all those who need it in the country, including in a more long-term perspective, and stressed the importance of our ability to maintain a good quality of healthcare, which, of course, requires a good quality of education, practice, guidance and control of fitness, etc. for medical students. I guess there's a broad consensus that we shouldn't in any way be moving into situations that are characterized by that we're weakening the quality of some areas. It's important that there's a consensus on that. I believe we should be able to ensure that, but it requires action, and I will also come back to that. There are many useful things to include in the further work on this. I fully agree that smaller local hospitals with emergency reception in many areas may be the most important in providing a comprehensive and good practice and good tour service. I don't even have the experience of several of the debaters here with tour activities, but I use every opportunity when I'm visiting health services to ask about the tour candidates, how they are, and I get a lot of useful feedback. Mostly, it's a back game that says they want to have turnaround candidates. There may also be very small institutions, where experienced doctors believe that there are good opportunities to have turnaround candidates. I would also like to mention that I am visiting private clinics, quite small, where they also say that they like to have tour candidates. That's something I want them to commit to. That's why we've proposed in Ot.prp. No 66, as I mentioned earlier, that it should be possible to demand it from the private institutions with which we cooperate. They would like to do so despite the fact that they have a different funding base than the public hospitals have, so I can't quite see that there is a crucial question in such a context like this. I think we should be careful, as soon as we see any possible problems with this, to start discussing the reduction in the admissions of medical students. We have to look at that in a longer perspective. I don't think that state acquisition is better than weather, but I guess I sometimes get the impression that many people think it will cause very bad weather. I don't think there's any reason either. I think that will improve the possibilities in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e866	Case No. 2 is thus finished. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 3 and 4 will be processed under one – and will count as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e889	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes. Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e900	Case No. 3 is a collection of three things that are related, but that could also stand on their own legs. The three issues are: hydropower expansion in the Salt Mountain – Blacknessen region, the future of hydropower expansion and an assessment of the power balance. It's been about. 10 years since the concession was granted for the three extensions in the Salt Mountain to the Black Sea region. Since then, there has been a social development that has led several parties to give greater emphasis to the value of the natural qualities of the area. This was the starting point when representatives of a majority of the parties in the Storting were engaged in the Beiarn construction to ensure that no extension was made that would later be seen as a serious error. On the basis of this commitment, the Government carried out a long and comprehensive assessment of this expansion as well as the expansion in Bjøllåga and Melfjord. When the Government instructed Statkraft to stop these expansions, this is in line with the view of the majority of the population. These are large-scale expansions in relation to power generation, so large that it cannot be defended. In the case of the Melfjord extension, the Right Party and the Centre have reached a different conclusion. For the Right, this is based on the fact that, after the adjustment of Statkraft, this expansion will have a less negative impact on the natural environment than the other two will have. At the same time, we have called for new additional impact assessments to be carried out and, where appropriate, for remedial measures to be followed up. We can see that the commitment that was around the Beiarn expansion not only saved these unique natural areas in the last second, but it also led to a higher threshold for new expansions. For future generations, therefore, there is an important signal The Biggest gives today. For the sake of future generations, the Storting today clearly indicates that one from now on must have a more restrictive attitude to further watercourse development, and that one says that the vast majority of the watercourses left remain untouched. This is based on the recognition that most of the expandable watercourses are already developed, and that there are few watercourses of this type again. Some try to manufacture it as if the majority of the watercourses in Norway are protected or untouched by expansions. But then one assumes that all watercourses are the same, and that's obviously not right. The watercourses that have a potential for expansion are usually located in areas that are not affected by other activities and are part of a completely unique Norwegian natural environment. Securing these areas for future generations has a self-esteem, but we should not ignore the value that these areas represent for the community. Norway as a destination is first and foremost known because of our pristine nature and our positive environmental profile. In the Communication, the Government underlines the importance it will place on maintaining the existing production base in the context of revision and renewal of regulatory concessions. While agreeing with this objective, the Committee would like to stress that this objective must also be balanced with the new requirements for the natural environment and the changing social views that have led to different and more restrictive concession terms than those that one had up to 80 years ago. The recent case of the Numedallaggen is a good example of how those intentions can be balanced against each other. As regards upgrading and expansion, the Committee considered it necessary to repeat the definition given in the overall watercourse plan. Within this definition, there will still be several projects that can be realised without significant damage to pristine nature. However, with a more restrictive approach to development, there may be pressure to define projects within these concepts. This battle has one, for example. already registered, related to the Hateberg watercourse in Rosendal. In this context, it would be interesting if the Council of State in the forthcoming debate could provide an information on how this matter is now being dealt with and on what progress will be made. The Committee is concerned that the Storting has on several occasions expressed the wish that one should set up several mini- and micro-power plants, but that it seems that those wishing to establish them meet with resistance. We are therefore pleased that the Government will now carry out a survey of the underlying causes of this, and propose new measures in this context. However, the majority of the Committee also chooses to focus on two issues that are obvious, namely the assessment of the concept of ‘public interest’ and the NVE’s leadership in the area of medium-term water management. For this reason, the majority of the Committee has reiterated the Committee’s comment on the concept of ‘public interest’ in the context of the Water Resource Act and stresses that developers should have greater opportunity to exploit the floodwaters when this does not affect the natural quality of the area. In addition, the majority of the Committee concludes with the Government's proposal to amend and simplify the procedure in the case of hydroelectric power stations. The Norwegian energy debate is often marked by the fact that we have a stronger supply of electricity from a renewable source than the countries with which we normally compare. This has led to Norwegian industry and households having a large share of electricity as energy. This in turn has led us, in my opinion, to some ‘energy myths’ in Norway. These are often based on the fact that one in the Norwegian debate places a similarity between energy and electricity. Some of this debate was one in the past today in the spontaneous Question Time. One of these myths is that in Norway we have a waste of energy, which is not the case. We have an energy consumption in households that is actually below what the countries we compare with have. We have a large share of this energy related to electricity from a renewable source, which you should look at with positive eyes. The other myth is that we have an increase in energy consumption due to waste, that is not the case either. The increase we have is due to the development of the welfare community. When, among others: this increase decides that there should be exclusive access to hospitals, and that impact on energy use. When this increase decides to bet on developing the IT industry, it also has an impact on energy consumption. There is therefore reason to stress that despite the fact that Norway imports electricity, we export enormous amounts of energy. Western Europe is totally dependent on this energy. In the message, electricity is most focused, but I expect that this is due to the fact that this is not a complete energy message, but an adjustment to the already adopted message. In the notification, a few impressions may be that it is an independent point that Norway should be self-sufficient in power. This is now addressed by the fact that a majority of the Committee emphasises that this is not the case, but that the Government provides a realistic picture of the challenges facing it with increased consumption combined with a unilateral dependence on electricity. Compared to the energy balance, the disagreement is mainly related to the vision of gas power plants and the assessment of demand. This is a topic that is probably highlighted in previous debates, but the right is pleased that this message is based on a realistic view of the possibilities that a person has to limit consumption. The Committee notes that there has been a misunderstanding with regard to the description of Enova’s tasks in the notification and the decision taken in the Stortingen on the responsibility for the follow-up to the national gas strategy. I expect this to have arisen at an incubation, and will ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government will base the decisions and signals made in connection with the establishment of Enova. It is therefore clear that who will be responsible for the follow-up to the national gas strategy will first be determined in the context of the natural gas spill notification. The energy message added high ambitions related to waterborne heat. If these objectives are to be achieved, the majority sees the need for a national action plan to develop waterborne heat infrastructure. This is also a follow-up to the intention of a Document No. 8-proposals supported by SV. In the message, it is strongly focused on dry-years, but I am surprised that dry-year magazines are almost not mentioned in this context. Societal resources have been used to build a security related to them, and it is therefore obvious that this resource must be used when the situation for which they were built arises. The majority of the Committee has placed great emphasis on the importance of a well-functioning impact market, with positive instruments. This is both good energy policy and good environmental policy. Norway also has a great opportunity to be ahead of it, as we did when it came to liberalisation of the energy market. Norway is actually in a very unique situation, because we have a few large power users in the process industry, while having a large share of electricity from a renewable energy source. This also greatly facilitates the creation of an impact market and offers us great opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e949	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e952	This matter has been going on for some time, at least in the media and through correspondence, where the Right has also been one of the signatories, especially with regard to the area of the Beiarn watercourse. I have to say that I am very surprised at the crunch of the Right in many directions in this matter, especially in the case of Melfjord. Now the Right new investigations are required, and they are even on the following proposals together with the Centre Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the development of Melfjord. The necessary additional impact studies must be carried out before the final authorisation is granted and any remedial measures must be implemented.’;» This proposal is now in favour of the right in the case of Melfjord. At the same time, they agree with a joint comitology on Melfjord, from all the parties except the Progress Party, where it says at the end: ‘In the judgement, it was assumed that fishing in Storevatnet is totally damaged’. Now soon the Right has to decide what they want in Melfjord. Now they are asking in a proposal, which, fortunately, will not be adopted here today, that the Government should go further with the expansion of Melfjord. At the same time, they are asking for an impact assessment again. There have been a dozen impact assessments. Then they say in a committee comment that fishing in Storvatnet will be totally damaged. Yes, understand the one who can, where the Right will in this matter. Here the Right only does one thing, and it's trying to draw its local politicians right here, and then they're going to have an exit in many directions, like the reef. Here the Right needs to figure out what they want, both in decision making and in what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e966	Bent Höie. The President asks the representative, Mr Höie, to consider whether to present the proposal or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e971	I will. I'm also going to help Tore Nordtun with the memory, because it's obviously not good. If Tore Nordtun remembers, right-wing involvement in these issues, along with others, was simply linked to what one of these concerns, namely new impact assessments. It's about the Beiarn extension. With regard to the Melfjord expansion, the Government has carried out an independent investigation and reached the same conclusion as for the Beiarn expansion. In that area, we disagree with the Government. And it shouldn't be a big surprise for the Nordtun representative, because our commitment was linked to new impact assessments. So there hasn't been any wings up and down, as the representative Nordtun tries to present it as. With regard to the comment referred to by Nordtun, it simply outlines the facts relating to the Melfjord expansion, which are based on the State Power's own description.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e982	The President then sees it as Bent Höie has drawn up proposal No. 3 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e985	I will record some of the same thread that the representative Nordtun took up in his line to Höie. The right in the setting says very little about future hydropower expansions in general, and it surprises us that the Right is with the Center Party behind a proposal to allow the expansion of Melfjord after the necessary additional impact studies have been carried out. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative, Höie, does the Right have a problem in taking a stand on what they are going to think about future hydroelectric expansions? And further, if the Right really wants a future for the hydropower in Norway, why don't they support the Progress Party's proposal to develop the watercourses with a slightly reduced and more gentle alternative for the Beiarn?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e994	In contrast to the Progress Party, the Right clearly distinguishes between the Beiarn and Bjøllåga extensions and the Melfjord expansion. We believe that the two former expansions have a clearly stronger negative impact than what the Melfjord expansion has. With regard to our line in relation to future water power development, we assume that there is a difference between the Melfjord expansion, which is already approved by the Storting, and an assessment on a completely new and free basis in relation to future expansions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1001	I want to give honor to the case manager for a good job. He also boasted of the action on the Salt Mountain, and I will join in, because it has been an important job they have done. Right has also been important in this, because the Right was active in the process of letter writing to get the Workers' Party involved in an instruction. Since the Right came to this, there has been a national meeting in the Right, in which one clearly states that a now should have a more restrictive attitude towards further expansion of hydropower, i.e. before we have dealt with this matter. I think it's a little strange that a first person comes in and writes a letter to the Council of State, so the national meeting adopts a more restrictive attitude, and then one goes in to evaluate Melfjord. There will be a lack of logic in what I need an explanation from the representative from the Right. Now also the representative Höie was in on this with the myth of wasting, that Norway is not wasting energy. I think it's strange that a person can't see that Norway is doing it. One realizes it through the fact that the Right is involved in a proposal from the SV that aims to increase energy efficiency by using water-borne heat. Right is certainly aware that energy is being wasted in buildings and houses around the country. If we use water-borne heat using control technology, we could save a lot of power. So, it's a big waste, but the Right claims no. I also thought that the representative Höie could explain a little more, not least on the basis of what Akselsen said today, that we need to use the energy more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1011	On the first issue, I would like to say, as I have also tried to say earlier in the debate: the letter to the Council of State was about the Beiarn development, and it was about new impact assessments. We're pleased that the commitment that both the majority of this room and the action group had to it has led to a halt in these energy expansions, and that one is now adding the list higher. But that doesn't mean that one can't have another assessment in relation to one of these developments, which was not part of this correspondence. In terms of myths, which I had in mind in relation to the waste of energy, the difference is that the Right, unlike the SV, which builds its policy on these myths and thus has a misguided energy policy, is based on the belief that one in Norway has a significant potential for improvement in relation to an efficient use of energy. That is precisely why, both through this case and a case to be dealt with later today, we attach great importance to using the market in order to achieve better and more efficient use of energy. But we're not, like SV, willing to spend a lot of public money fighting something that's a myth, that we're much more wasted on energy. But that there may be more efficient use of energy, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1018	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1021	The development of Saltberg/Black has a long history, as the rapporteur has explained. And it's a matter that has aroused very strong reactions, both from the political environment and from the protection interests. The interest around the expansion peaked a year ago, as a long correspondence developed between the staging representatives of all parties, except the Workers' Party, and the Minister of Oil and Energy, while the opponents of the expansion gathered the ranks in the fight against these three projects. I have gone through the quite extensive correspondence. I have to say that it seems quite obvious that what the parties really wanted in relation to these expansions was that they were stopped. And when the Workers' Party later took note of this, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg announced in his New Year's speech that these projects should be scrapped, the decision was naturally met with applause from the writers of all parties on the Stortinget. Not that it is very important for the matter, but a few quotes from the reactions that came may at least have a certain entertainment value – especially since it is election year. We greeted the news of the shinning with joy, said the Center Party John Dale to NTB. A wise decision by the Prime Minister, Jan Tore Sanner from the Right called it, and expected great support from the Right Magnificent Group. Now we know how it went. Not enough with that, Øyvind Waksdal of the Advance Party assured by phone from the Canary Islands that the Advance Party will not protest if the planned expansion of the Salt Mountain is scraped for good. All of these are statements that came after the government had scolded the plans for expansion. But, as I said, this is the year of the elections, and then everything is possible in politics – especially in politics. Because there must be starting campaigners when the same parties now, when the matter is being dealt with in the Storting, do Arab-squat and go against the Government and want to expand anyway. The right and the centre are now in favour of expansion, but only in Melfjord, but an extension, and paradoxically the largest of the three projects. A wise decision, called the Right Lashing, and the Center Party greeted it with joy. Yes, it's election year this year! The proponent's spokesperson said a few months ago that they would not protest against the inauguration of the projects. Now, some months later, but closer to the election campaign, the same party will open up for the expansion of all three projects. Well, the Labour Party is pleased that we get a majority together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, and takes the consequences of the changes in times, and that the amount of power we would have gotten out of these projects does not defend the interventions, and that the work is stopped. The second thing we are dealing with today is the situation around the energy balance in Norway. It's a cross of thought that we've come into the situation that we're now using more power than we're able to produce. That the hydropower and energy nation of Norway is dependent on importing electricity from the continent is, if not spectacular, so at least paradoxical. It will be vital to support the increased production of electricity in Norway and to establish better connections with the continent so that we can be covered by imports of electricity when needed. It is worth noting that the Committee now unanimously notes the development of a common Nordic electricity market. This means that in discussions about power and power balance, we need to look beyond the borders of the country and see things in the context of the situation outside Norway. There have been situations in which we have exploited power capacity beyond the maximum of what is possible, and it is important to find some action to improve the strained situation that may arise in shorter periods. The development of an impact market is important in this context. The Committee is also concerned with the development of micro and mini-power plants, which can not give us insignificant amounts of power without significant interference in nature. Such developments must not be prevented by legislation and excessive procedural procedures. Here I expect the ministry to take the necessary steps to get ahead on such matters. Finally, some words about the process industry, which have expressed concern for the future in relation to power issues. And a unanimous committee now points out that there are good environmental policy arguments to ensure that this industry remains in Norway. I want to add that there is also a series of arguments for this, not just in the interests of environmental policy, but it is also important for employment across the country. It is necessary to have an upstream industry which is not unilaterally dependent on oil production, and this industry must have the opportunity to develop. One thing is certain: the only option for development for industry is liquidation. Therefore, it is reassuring that a unanimous committee clearly states that it is not national policy to reduce the activity of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1045	In the context of today’s suspension, the Workers’ Party has jointly written with the Right a note listing some good measures to address our power challenges. It points out what the Storting has agreed on, about 3 TWh wind power by 2010, 4 TWh waterborne heat within the same period, pointing to the transmission capacity and conversion of energy consumption and production in addition to the use of natural gas. But then the last point in the list comes, and that's the following: that you want to facilitate the construction of gas power. After all, the decision taken by the Storting for the construction of gas power stations requires that operators in this market be free to assess whether and when it is considered appropriate and profitable to build these power stations. The Workers' Party now shows a more active attitude towards entering into and facilitating the situation. And then my question becomes to the representative Bent Hegna: Does include e.g. that, in the context of the budget, the Labour Party will make concrete proposals for a dramatic increase in electricity prices in order to make the construction of gas power plants more profitable and more competitive? That's the one question. The second concerns CO2 increases linked to gas power plants. Now we see that the EEA in the newspaper yesterday says that we are already 7 pst. above 1990 levels for emissions. This means that we're actually about to eat up the goal we have with waterborne heat and wind turbines for the period up to 2010, and then we get gas power on top. Does the representative Bent Hegna and the Labour Party in this house – without doing what Siri Bjerke does all the time, namely refer to the Climate Action Communication – have any independent perception of what national measures need to be taken to achieve our objectives under the Kyoto agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1054	First, the question of increasing the power price. I think I can reassure the representative Rahm by saying that there are hardly any proposals about it in the budget. And it doesn't really have to be adopted in the budget, because the price of power is rising if there's too little production – it's that simple what the market is doing. As long as it is problematic to have new power generation stacked, prices will rise. The only way to bring down the power prices is to be able to produce more. Of course, there are also a number of other measures that can be implemented. The problem is, as I said, we have to produce more power. In the case of gas power, we believe in itself nothing but that those who want to build gas power plants in Norway should have the same framework conditions here as in other countries. That's what's the difference. We do not want to impose on a gas power plant taxes that they do not have in other countries where they build gas power plants. With regard to the conversion of energy consumption, which the representative was very much involved, we do not disagree with that. The working party here fully understands and agrees that it is necessary to do a number of things to change the problematic situation we're up in. one thing is to produce more power, another thing is that we have to try to reduce consumption where possible. It is not a question of either — or, but a question of doing both — and.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1063	The chairman of the Committee, Tore Nordtun, appeared as the newly saved watercourse protector in a previous succession, and the representative Bent Hegna appeared as the mere malignant in his main post. Various quotations were made in connection with the Prime Minister's New Year speech, including the following: The undersigned had stated that it was a wise decision. I think it was a wise decision – election or not election. On the other hand, I am much more in doubt as to whether the representative Bent Hegna and the chairman of the committee, Tore Nordtun, believe that this was a wise decision. It is no secret that the two referenced representatives inside the Workers' Party appear to be the most extensive representatives in the development of watercourses. I think perhaps the representative Hegna should be honest enough to admit that the Right engagement in this matter, and not least the Right decision to adopt a more restrictive position on watercourse development, has also contributed to the Workers' Party's taking a more restrictive position. It acknowledges at least the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party, which does not conceal the fact that they have used the Right's restrictive attitude to also force the most extensive – apologies, President – representatives of the Workers' Party to adopt a more restrictive position. Finally, the Working Party has stated in a comitology note that ‘there is also evidence that there are several current projects within the overall plan and new projects which, through the conversion of the overall plan, could be further developed and realised’. What are the watercourses of the Workers' Party here? What are the watercourses that the Workers' Party believes can be expanded with the new list that has been added, and within the Total Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1072	The President notes that the representative Sanner apologized for the use of a word which is highly non-parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1075	It is quite rightly observed that the representative Hegna has been progressive, and I am still in and out of it. But I realize that my view of power development may no longer be the same as it was a few years ago. Society is changing, people out there are changing, and the demands for power development are changing. I have now been called a «power socialist» for ten years, but I am pleased to admit that ok, I have lost that matter. I just have to say that I have to accept that we have to take more account of the environment now than we did before. But I think that's okay. If there is a great deal of local resistance, if there is a great deal of natural interference and at the same time there is no special force, I see no point in ‘driving’ through an extension just to satisfy some voters locally. Now it looks in and of itself as though the Workers' Party is punishing itself, and it is possible that it is because of the Melfjord expansion that the Right rises sharply on the polls. But it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1080	The President shall record the use of a non-parliamentary word again. The President does not consider it necessary to use non-parliamentary terms to admit his own mistakes, even though it is honest enough to admit his own mistakes. The last replicator is Øyvind Korsberg. The President hopes that he will not need to use the unparliamentary expression later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1085	I'm going to try not to, but I'm recording that the desire for the representative Hegna has become smaller, incredible enough. The Prime Minister's New Year speech, on which the representative Hegna was in, gave us strong signals about the future of hydropower, or rather a lack of future, as the Government follows up on this matter. The majority of the suspension, which is also part of the Workers' Party, is now putting an effective stop to hydropower generation in Norway, with the consequences for both industry and consumers. I would therefore like to ask the representative Hegna if he believes that the puzzled measures adopted by the Stortinge during the treatment of the energy message will be enough to meet the increase in demand. And further, does the representative Hegna really believe that it makes sense for an energy storm power such as Norway, which is almost flooded with energy, to use fresh tax and tax credits to subsidise energy production?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1095	It is claimed from the Progress Party that there is a lack of future for the hydropower. That's completely wrong. Hydropower is expanded into large monn in Norway, and it will always be. 90 pst. of our power consumption is electricity produced from hydropower plants, and that's what it's still going to be. So, of course, the hydropower has an eternal future in Norway. It's about, we realize that the time for building out new, big projects is over. But the future of hydropower is by no means over. With regard to the representative Korsberg called ‘puzzle’ measures to produce enough electricity, I agree with the Advance Party in it. I don't think it's enough with windmills and other things. That's very good. We're going to use some subsidies on it for a lot of reasons, not primarily because there's some big contribution to the power balance, but maybe to create research environments, some activity and some jobs around the districts, etc. But there are completely different approaches that need to be taken to properly deal with the mismatch between what we use of power and what we produce of power. There's a completely different grip that has to be done, and it's mainly the import of power from the continent that can sort it out. The construction of gas power plants will be central. And, of course, it is important to go into households, in the public sector and in industry and put in place sensible energy saving measures. So it's like I said before, this isn't about either one or the other -- here we have to do a lot of things at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1104	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1107	When the Prime Minister held his New Year's speech last year and announced his stop in the expansions in Salt Mountain/Black and the end of the hydroelectric era, he received support from the parties in Stortinget. It was also after considerable pressure from Stortinget that the reassessment was carried out. It is therefore with some amazement that one can record that two of the parties that were behind the pressure from Stortinget's side are now separating teams from us in the question of expanding the Melfjord watercourse. Although the correspondence between the majority of the population and the Council of State was primarily about the Beiarn development, environmental arguments are not less important in relation to Melfjord. All three extensions are located close to or within areas protected as national park area, nature reserve or landscape protected area. The Melfjord development will have a negative impact on watercourses and natural values in parts of these protected areas. This is why the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal. It is also necessary to ensure the protection of several watercourses, not only through additional measures, but also through a new protection plan work. It should provide the basis for a protective plan in which all undistorted watercourses are initially included, unless they are explicitly exempted for other purposes. This involves a kind of turning around the mirror. Here a few could assess the revision of older concessions, the protection of other watercourses where the protection values are high, the protection of salmon waters not regulated for power purposes, etc. Such a fifth protective plan would then be the very last to be dealt with. At the time of the recent review of the Landkraft deposit, everything about the Norwegian market was considered irrelevant – not only in the proposition, but also in the string change here in the hall. However, the Norwegian market was rejected as an existing size. It was focused on the fact that we now have a free international energy market in the Nordic region, and soon ditto for Europe. In the staging message that came very shortly afterwards, the pipe suddenly got a completely different sound. No, then it almost wasn't about the international energy market. The focus is almost exclusively on Norwegian, although the Nordic is referred to to a certain degree. Yes, there is even talk of rationalization and a kind of power crisis in the Norwegian market. And the indirect message is a kind of self-sufficiency objective. It is quite remarkable that in such a short time, two different and conflicting messages can be presented by the same government. But it's all the more interesting, because it makes you wonder if there are no political agendas behind here that affect the arguments you run up to what time. It is also striking how different this message is from the energy message, which was presented by the central government, and it despite the fact that the Workers' Party supported it most. In the Energy Communication, it was established that environmental objectives will determine production potential. Active policies to limit energy consumption should be pursued. This got Storting's approval. In this message the Government argues quite differently. Here later on, the increase in consumption is the direction of priorities. Measures to remedy the energy balance are based on projections of increases in consumption and without the environmental objectives governing them. These measures are proposed in unpriority order. As a result, measures for the conversion of energy production and consumption can be less profitable, and consumption is further increasing, with the need for ever-increasing production. The same reverse operation concerns oil firing. Before that, the working party wanted a plan for phase-out of oil firing and phase-in of bioenergy and heat pumps to be developed. And Stortinget asked for this. We did not get that, instead we got a reverse operation where the government opens up for increased use of oil firing. The Christian People's Party has not changed its mind, either in terms of environmental objectives, energy saving or fossil energy sources. We still mean the same thing. The Norwegian power system set three records last year: we've never produced so much, we've never used that much power, and we've never exported that much in a year. The Norwegian power supply was not in a dramatic situation, either in terms of energy supply or power. In the so-called crisis month of January 2001, Norway exported 0.4 TWh out of the country, corresponding to an Alta power plant. Therefore, by the Christian People's Party, we cannot see that we are facing any power crisis or production crisis. Furthermore, a well-functioning market would provide price signals that in the next round triggered energy saving measures or increased production capacity. There are no price signals in the market now that suggest such a dramatic situation. However, action is necessary, but they must be directed primarily at the problems that can now create what I would call a consumption crisis and an impact crisis. Therefore, a current effort should be made on instruments to address these two conditions, consumption and impact. They must be given priority first. This means that the following three actions should be given priority in the future: We need to ensure that the market works well – here, the international market and the development of power are crucial. We need to convert energy use and energy production. We have to reduce the amount of electricity that goes to heating. In addition, we will support measures for the upgrading and expansion of hydropower and the expansion of micro- and mini-power plants, as a total collapse also enters the setting. I'll take these points after tour. Firstly, we need to make better use of the free energy market and make it more efficient. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers figures, the situation on the international market shows that the installed energy capacity in Europe today has a surplus of 40-50 pst. In the case of the actual production of energy in relation to consumption, the surplus is about 20 pst. With the establishment of the planned external transmission lines, such a common electricity market could soon be fully operational. Both environmental and economic arguments argue for exploiting this capacity before building up new strengths. If a market is to function properly, it must also do more in relation to its impact. Priority must be given to measures to combat the development of power scarcity. On days of very high consumption, there is currently not enough transmission capacity to transfer all the power actually available. This requires a new grip. That is why I am pleased that a majority at Stortinget also sees this. This means actions such as: power management, where both producers and consumers can be paid to provide reserve capacity for the development of a larger power market with the purchase and sale of power a tariff harmonisation with the rest of the Nordic region This will contribute to triggering the necessary investments that can in turn contribute to an acceptable impact balance. Maximum load management with two-way communication through the use of new technologies This will reduce power peaks by 14-28 pst., increase energy input and help reduce power billing. better coordination of system operators in the Nordic region; This could give us a power market that is far more profitable than today's gas power plans. investment in the transmission system and removal of so-called bottlenecks; Here, the transfer lines also play in relation to the rest of the world. These are all measures that could have a significant impact on the use of the energy market and on the more efficient use of energy. So to my second point: conversion of energy use and energy production. It is funny that energy consumption in Norway is considered almost impossible to deal with, while for example: in Germany, there is a clear reduction in energy consumption between 2010 and 2020. It's not wishful thinking. They themselves believe that they should do it. According to the EEA, the EU's top environmental body, no Europeans waste as much as we do. Even Sweden and Finland use half as much electricity as Norway. A number of heavy trade unions have calculated the energy-saving potential we have in Norway. We usually rely on the Statistical Central Agency, research programmes carried out under the Norwegian Research Council, such as the Effekt Programme, or public investigations, such as: Energy and power balance by the year 2020 from 1998. But in terms of growth and energy efficiency, there is always the doubt about winning, the increase in energy consumption is regarded as an inevitability, which is something almost impossible for a person to do. The Government's energy message is also permeated by this process of thinking. While the EU countries and the EU are constantly introducing new savings measures, there are few lines to this in the Communication, and no new measures are being notified. A gas power plant generates 300 MW, while the use of energy saving potential in households and industry can provide almost 20 times more. Only a small realization of this potential will mean a great deal. It's really amazing how little weight the government puts on this. Changes are needed in both construction regulations and technical regulations, financial support schemes, the use of new technologies and instruments such as. third-party financing to achieve this. Here Enova will be an important actor. The investment of DKK 5 billion over 10 years is about contributing to increased energy production in Norway through energy saving and new renewable energy sources. This objective must be followed up with the scope and measures taken. We expect concrete follow-up of the Government. And third, we have to reduce the share of electricity going to heating, and bet more on waterborne heat. Norway has a large potential to expand more waterborne heat. That is why we are pleased that the Storting today is asking for a national action plan to develop waterborne heat infrastructure so that this potential can be realised. Waterborne heat should, according to Christian People's Party's assessment, be the general rule in new buildings over 1000 m2 and not just in public buildings, which have already received a regulation. Also in the case of gas power, the pipe is given a different sound. While the only legitimate reason for gas power was export and to save the world or to save Europe, gas power stations are obviously now saving Norway or the Norwegian power balance. The argument has been reverted. But today, there are ten-year contracts on the market at about 16-17 cents per cent. TWh. At such prices, the development of new production in the form of gas power or major hydroelectric installations will not respond economically. Subsidies can hardly be considered as an alternative. Both cost-efficiency considerations, which should, of course, be a guideline in energy policy, and environmental considerations, which should also be a guideline in environmental policy, mean that gas power based on old-fashioned and polluting technologies cannot be considered as part of future Norwegian energy production. However, the development of gas power stations with new technologies and with minimal greenhouse gas emissions will receive the support of the Christian People's Party. Here we meet a work and a hard work between several actors to realize such projects. We will have many opportunities to come back to that in future debates. With this I take on behalf of the centre parties and SV up the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1198	The representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1203	I'm not going to suggest that the center management had a clearer environmental profile than the government we have today. I thought that the centre party represented by the Christian People's Party has become even more attractive in the opposition environment, and I am grateful that the party is part of e.g. the suggestions SV and the center party have in their configuration. It is positive and promises good for the further work on the environment. I still have two questions. One goes on the signal effect of what we do today in relation to the Salt Mountain. What is the meaning of the Christian People's Party? SV has a comment on this, where one recommends people who think about and want to – to use that word – to expand a lot, think twice, and reduce their projects and plans in relation to it. I would like to know what kind of signal effect the Christian People's Party believes that this matter that we are dealing with today has for other projects, among others. A project in her own state, Rogaland. The second question concerns compensation and State power. One knows that there are our issues where the municipalities and the state power are in conflict, and one knows that it can also occur in this matter. What is the Christian People's Party's attitude towards the role of State power toward the municipalities with which one still has things to talk about in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1212	We also appreciate good words from SV regarding the Christian People's Party and the environmental profile of the other centre parties. So the question that relates to the signal effect of the decisions we are making today. I believe the signal effect has already been derived from both the Prime Minister's New Year speech and the views of the parties, despite two divergent views in the Chamber today in connection with the Melfjord expansion. The signal that has gone out is perceived by enough of the majority of the developers that there will be much greater caution in the Storting in terms of new, major developments, and that the emphasis has shifted in relation to stronger environmental orientation. In the case of SV's comment, which is more or less a direct call to builders to do something about their projects, the Storting here in the hall does not have any tradition of making calls to builders in any direction. I don't think that's particularly serious -- to put it straight. The builders are allowed to make their assessments, but our signals are in the policies we put in this room, and the policies that are now set out in the setting. That's where I think the signals are pretty clear. With regard to the consequences for other expansions, it is clear to my and the Christian People's Party that emphasising the environment will mean looking at both the scale and the environment of future expansions. Not all of the extensions will be supported, even if both are taken into account. We have to look at that on a case-by-case basis. So I don't want to go into what individual matters it had to be about. As far as compensation to Statkraft is concerned, as far as we understand and as the Committee has written in the recommendation, it has been assumed that the municipalities will be able to retain the funds which are part of the agreement with Statkraft and which are linked to the nutrition fund. In addition to that, this is a matter between Statkraft and the municipalities, and we on our side do not think it is right for the Storting to go in and instruct further. But the comment that is underlying here is clear enough, and it should provide an adequate basis for the security of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1225	The representative Frafjord Johnson was at gas power plants and claimed that the argument for the construction of gas power plants has reversed from the fact that the flow was to be exported to save the domestic market. But now the situation is that during the time we have discussed gas power plants, it has changed. Six to eight years ago, Norway was in a situation where we had a surplus of electricity and could export, while we are now importing and in a deficit situation. At the same time, it has developed not only a Nordic market but a northern European market. It also writes the center parts in its notes. Of course, building gas power plants in Norway will have consequences for the northern European market, and it admits everyone. But the point is that it also has consequences if we don't build gas power plants. Because you don't build gas power plants, that means we have to cover that amount of electricity with something else, and that's just one thing, and that's imports. Then we are in the discussion about imports or not imports. Of course, the pointless claim made by the representative that gas power stations are old-fashioned sausage boilers is only sprayed. The gas power plants in question have modern technology – perhaps the most modern technology that has been developed. So we don't have to go over that discussion again. We've had it countless times in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1232	The President would draw attention to the fact that one does not refer to other representatives’ views as ‘injected’. It is not parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1235	But that's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1242	It is clear that we are going towards summer – in relation to the use of words here! I don't have a full overview. I have to admit that. I could probably have had copies of the various statements that have been at the national meetings and national government meetings in the Workers' Party over the years. But if I'm not completely wrong, it's no more than a couple – three years since the Workers' Party had as a clear premise that the gas power was to be exported. It wasn't eight years ago, and so much dramatic has not happened on the power market that it was supposed to lead to a reversal of the argument. What has happened is that you have turned around for convenience reasons, and you find that it is now possible – along with the Right. The right has always argued very clearly that the gas power would go to Norwegian power supply. The working party argued completely differently. I am pretty sure I could have had many juicy quotes to come with if I had lighted well in advance. I didn't. It is not up to believers to say that this is due to conversion and change in the power market and the development of the power market and the price of power. It's not. It's the Labour Party's policy that's changed, based on very interesting assumptions. Then, according to a previous line change, the representative Hegna has little faith that wind power, waterborne heat and other new and renewable energy sources will be able to make a difference in relation to the power balance. He argued something like the Progress Party in his line change. There's nothing new. But he did. What we know is that this represents more in TWh than the gas power plants that are planned if we exploit the potential as we've projected, and exploit it to the full. It concerns both waterborne heat, wind power and other energy sources. So we can get out more than the 6 TWh the gas force would be. It actually does a lot in relation to the force balance, it does. It also makes it actually a consistency in the argument that we have. As far as the northern European energy market is concerned, I would actually say that we pay more attention to it than the labor party government does in its big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1255	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1259	The relationship between supply and demand in force in the Norwegian market has changed radically in recent years. From being a net power exporter, Norway has had to import more force in recent years, even in so-called normal years. This is, of course, due to an increase in electricity consumption, while there has been no complete stoppage in power development projects. However, it should not be an end in itself that all countries should be self-sufficient in power as long as we operate in a single European power market. But Norway, as Europe’s leading power of energy, does not have the power to be self-sufficient in power, testifying in many years to political paralysis from changing governments and large-scale pluralities. This contributes to increased imports and higher prices for Norwegian consumers. For many years the majority of this room has been aimed at limiting the growth of electricity consumption. The result has been the exact opposite. Mistakes in increases and the introduction of increasingly higher electricity charges to consumers are examples of measures used to achieve the objectives and to try to control the market — even without significant results. The Party considers that electricity and other forms of energy should be freely marketable as any other commercial product, without public interference. We also distance ourselves from the myths that are created that we in Norway are some big energy wasters. Nor do we share the majority's concern about the growth of consumption. In a market where demand is higher than supply, prices will rise if nothing is done to increase supply. I am therefore amazed that the majority has not yet taken this inward. And their lack of action – unfortunately also in this case – will lead to even higher prices for the Norwegian consumer. This comes at the top of the galloping tax increases The Labour Party and the Centre parties have been putting on the Norwegian people in recent years. We live in a country that almost floods with energy. Why on earth shouldn't the Norwegian people benefit from the enormous energy resources we have, at a reasonable price, just to compensate that we live in a country with a cold climate? The progress party will do something about this. We want to facilitate some more hydropower expansion where this does not have too much impact on nature. We will also, as in the past, facilitate power generation based on gas, and we will also facilitate the conditions for micro and mini-power plants as well as the upgrading and modernisation of existing power plants. There is also reason to recall the positive impact of new and disseminated power generation on the power problem, of course in addition to its positive impact on the energy balance. However, we will strongly distance ourselves from the objectives behind by the majority in dealing with the energy message last year. The enormous and costly investment in windmills and waterborne heat will have little impact on the situation. In addition, these projects are not economically viable in the foreseeable future. It will therefore require huge transfers, both for investment and operation. We believe that there should be free competition between the different forms of energy, without any public subsidy. It must be a fail-safe statement that an energy storm power such as Norway, which is almost flooded with energy, will use fresh tax and tax credits to subsidise energy production. Then to the concrete power-building projects mentioned in the communication. The expansion of hydropower in Salt Mountain–Black was dealt with in 1989 and 1990, and the development of the three watercourses was authorised at that time. When Statkraft began to expand Beiarn many years later, this project was of a different magnitude than what had been treated. In addition to local resistance to the project, the Progress Party also supported the call for a new impact assessment of this modified deployment option. State power has now developed alternative plans for the construction of the Beiarn area, where the list is much higher in terms of nature interference in the area. The party of progress thinks Statkraft's new and changed plans are very interesting. The state power alternative, with 3 meters of submersible water instead of the original 7 meters, will reduce the size of the pond from 110 meters to 40 meters. Despite this, one will not reduce power generation by more than 8 GWh per. In the United Kingdom, it is estimated that more than half of the population live in the United Kingdom, while in the United Kingdom, more than half of the population live in the United Kingdom. 4 pst. of the originally planned production. We will therefore propose that the Government repeal the instructions of Statkraft to abandon the development plans for the three projects, and that Statkraft's option with 3 metres of suppression of the Water Framework is taken into account in the Beiarn development. I would like to mention proposal No. 4 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1289	The representative of Mr Voksdal has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1292	The government is running in St. Meld. No 37 in order to say no to more hydropower expansion in the Salt Mountain – Black. It is also hard to say that the time for large hydropower expansions is over. This may be very correct, but it is now necessary for each project to have its own independent assessment based on the existing regulations. The government has rated three projects: Beiarn, Bjøllåga and Melfjord. These were granted permission to build in 1989. These concessions were granted at the end of a period of large hydropower expansion. Years have passed, and the view of nature values and nature protection has changed. The value of the unspoilt nature road today is heavier than when the concessions were granted. What was then considered acceptable as an acceptable nature intervention is being considered to be ad hoc today. The centre party still believes that hydropower is one of the most environmentally friendly energy productions one can imagine, but the willingness to use alternative environmentally friendly energy forms has increased. This, together with the fact that pristine nature and natural qualities are valued more today, makes us essentially join the conclusions of St.meld. No Thirty-seven. The Centre Party, together with Right, has made an alternative proposal to the Melfjord extension. It requested that an additional impact assessment be carried out before taking a final position on this development. This is also reflected in the comitology comment — it is based on Statkraft’s adjusted development options, and not least on the wishes of local and regional authorities. An impact assessment will allow an assessment of the remedial measures that can be taken to reduce natural and environmental impacts if one is to be developed. Economic compensation to Statkraft due to the fact that Statkraft is instructed to stop the expansion, will be returned to the state budget. The government is also in favour of the municipalities retaining the food funds that have been paid out, and it is in favour of the Centre Party. The centre party is also determined that the Samla Plan should be relocated and that a Protection Plan V must be developed. The way Samla Plan works today for someone who sees it from another position in the everyday life, it has a small value. A watercourse located in category I, ready for concession management, will in practice be subject to completely new impact assessments, so that it is time to revise them. So finally, I'm a little surprised at the production that individual representatives give in relation to how much power they produce in this country, and how much consumption it is. We are being manufactured as an importer by force. But all the statistics that I'm reading show that over the last few years we've been producing more power than we've been consuming. We have been the net exporter of power. Then why is there one here and does this different? Are the statistics I'm reading wrong? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1318	The Centre has received a favourable opinion for its environment-friendly policy today from SV, and it should not be missed. But I just want to remind you that this extension case was on the central government table for over a year without them being able to reach a final decision. It seemed at least this way to the statements that came, that the joy was great when Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg presented a final decision in his New Year's speech, and I want to quote – as Bent Hegna did – what was said. To the evening post John Dale said that ‘he is pleased that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg considers the advantage of expanding the three watercourses ‘not large enough to defend the irrevocable interferences in nature’ as such an extension would represent’. ‘– There is respect for the Prime Minister’s assessment at this point’; says Dale. To NTB he says that the Center Party ‘agrees with the Prime Minister that the benefits of the development in question are too small to defend...’ and ‘It stands respect...’ I mean, some of the same thing. It is then incomprehensible to me that today a proposal is being made to the effect that the Storting actually asks the Government to facilitate the expansion. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The only two excuses I can find are that Dale's statements were made on the first New Year's Day in the morning, or that Rødøy has a central party rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1338	Now John Dale is allowed to answer for his own statements. I didn't interview him about it. What I represent today is the Central Party's big group's view of this matter. That John Dale might have a New Year's Day vision different from that of the Center Party's big group today, we're kind of getting to accept it. Elles, it is well to note – that is my opinion – that it was actually a process in Stortinget that led Prime Minister Stoltenberg to that conclusion in his New Year's speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1345	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1348	I would like to clarify, according to the line change here, my boast of the Center Party in environmental policy in this matter, that it does not now apply to the Centre Party in relation to watercourse development, where a clear indication is that one does not have the same interests as SV in terms of nature protection. For us who are concerned with the environment and nature protection, today is a great day. For SV this is a milestone – for us who have been working towards the development of watercourses over a long period of time. I would also like to pay tribute to the «People's Action Spar Saltfjellet», which has been working for many years to increase the knowledge of the politicians in Norway about what this unique area has of qualities – within natural experiences, within cultural memory, within reindeer and samar and within fishing and outdoors. I myself have been present in the area a couple of times through an invitation from the People's Action Saving Salt Mountains, among others. Have seen the castle of marble, and be by the waters of the sea of the sea. I know what these qualities mean, and they're now mountains. So this is a big day. So the Labour Party finally gave way to this case. By means of a long and many letters from a plural on Stortinget, a person would be involved in directing State Power – we should not forget that either, I think that's a positive thing, even if one had the knife on the throat. But based on what the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party do today, it could have been trained by the Labour Party. So it didn't. I am, as I said in a line change too, amazed at the Right, which has recently adopted a restrictive approach to new watercourse development, but which is now in favour of what I thought was completely impossible in relation to this national meeting decision. So it's important for us as politicians to also follow what you do in practice. What Right does is what you usually see: one has a party speaker, and then it comes to practical action, and then one does something completely different. That's what the Right through its policy illustrates to us today. I'm a little surprised, though, at a mass of stuff that doesn't want to use this case to be very clear to those who go with the expansion project in their stomachs, saying: Put it away, reduce the amount, bet on upgrading – that's the strategy. We should be even clearer than we are today, I thought, not least in relation to the local example of the Sauda extension, where there is actually an environmentally friendly alternative that you can bet on if you want to, and as one has a local mobilisation to get through. A signal to Statkraft. SV very often sets up Statkraft. We often follow Statkraft's advice. In this case, I would like to make it very clear that Statkraft must not now become involved in conflicts with the individual municipalities in the area. Now this ball has to be put to death once and for all, and now there must be no argument about economics compared to the municipalities. So a little bit in the end about the import of Polish and Danish coal power, i.e. the rhetoric of the Right, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, this with the force balance. State Council Akselsen said in an article today in the oral question time that one must use the energy ‘more efficiently’. There's an SV in complete agreement. The problem is, as with Right: what is it doing in practice? That's what kind of shows the reality of the words. It is therefore interesting to see that two such examples are not joined by the Labour Party. One is about installing a control technology, which can save up to 14 TWh – 25 Alta power plants, four gas plants. It's not the Workers' Party on today. They will also not be on a proposal to have a two-priced system, with a higher price when there is high consumption. So there's multiple parties here that struggle between words and concrete action in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1367	In many ways, it's a historical matter we're dealing with today. The environmental arguments reached and stopped the expansion in the Salt Mountain – Black Sea area. In addition, this led the majority to conclude that the hydroelectric era and the large, controversial expansions are over. The treatment in Stortinget shows that the Government has a solid back cover for its price change in this area. What has happened to the Beiarn expansion is simply alarming. Just a year ago, I raised the question of expansion in Beiarn with the government council in the spontaneous hour, because I wanted the development plans to be reviewed. The Minister for Oil and Energy said: ‘Such a concession shall be binding, permanently binding and shall not be convertible.’ And to my follow-up question, he said, ‘Even if I wanted to, I could do nothing but say yes to a reduced extension, which is now being applied for.’ I have this exchange of lines at home as a beloved collector's item, and as an example, it's useful to deal with important environmental issues. Fortunately, the opposition arrived, and the environmental movement, described by the ‘Spar Salt Mountain People's Action’, helped to create environmental history. The impossible became possible. It's surprising – where I share the views that several have already expressed – that the Center Party and the Right will expand Melfjord. Both applauded the government's reverse operation. The right also has a national meeting later which reinforces the scepticism of controversial developments. In environmental policy, the Right appears to be a wing party. I do not want to criticise those who make up the party's fraction in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I consider them to be unauthorized and parked in this matter by the majority of the group. There are still interesting hydropower projects that you can tackle. Among other things, it is possible in Saudi by moderate expansion and upgrading to get 400-500 GWh without coming into conflict with the environmental movement. We know that micro- and mini-power plants can make a significant contribution. NVE has an estimate of 10 TWh. The problem here is late procedure. We also know that it is possible to increase production in existing installations, not least to gain greatly in terms of power. In recent years we have had growth in consumption and little new energy production. The reason is obvious. It's a sustained low price. We are in a situation that is challenging, but in no way can it be described as a crisis. We know what needs to be done, and therefore it is regrettable that the Government has a defensive attitude that underlies the existence of a considerable room for action for Norway, and that instead of appreciating this space of action, they are running against the poor environmental solutions, for example. gaseous polluting power plants. The alternative should be a large-scale commitment to renewable energy sources, on an increasing scale and on the large quantum leaps associated with clean gas and hydrogen. Many want to reduce their power bill. The government's response is: Wait for the gas power stations. So it's gas power stations that come in three or four years at best, and that require an energy price at least at the present level. The ability people have to reduce power bills, go on guidance and incentives to cut consumption, install new technology. It should have been the Government's response to the challenge we are facing today. Instead, one chooses to serve ever-increasing consumption with traditional instruments. When the Energy and Environment Committee was in Germany, we got a description of the ambitions to stabilise and reduce energy consumption between 2010 and 2020. I think it should be natural for Norway, which has a significantly higher energy consumption per year. builder than Germany, to provide such ambition by stabilising and reducing energy consumption in Norway long before that time. I have recorded that we have now had a breakthrough and a new orientation in terms of hydropower policy. What we need now is a reorientation and a breakthrough in the overall energy policy. I'm optimistic. I think time is working for such a solution. For the time being, we note that there is no majority in the UK to change the main lines of energy policy, but the change we have made in the area of hydropower policy is an inspiring starting point for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1397	The President knows it's going against a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1400	That was a good idea the president had, because I was very surprised at the contribution to Gunnar Kvassheim. Here comes Gunnar Kvassheim with a strong ointment against the Workers' Party government and the Workers' Party. Gunnar Kvassheim joined forces with the Workers' Party on the entire energy communication – about an additional measure and everything. We were shoulder to shoulder. We had budgetary settlements in the fall over theincrease measures. We were shoulder to shoulder. It is not so many years since the Left put in government and presented an energy message about the development of the Norwegian energy market, where they did not come up with a prescription on how to get out of it. And then Gunnar Kvassheim's representative is standing here giving a thunderous speech about how little is being done now. He's been in on everything by himself! There were earlier questions about the memory of some representatives on this thing, but now I have to ask questions about the memory of Gunnar Kvassheim and his involvement with the Workers' Party and what we do. The working party has taken hold of the grip to get things in place, and it is the further time in this we print out the prescription for, including the gas power plant. I accept that Gunnar Kvassheim will not be involved, but if Gunnar Kvassheim believes that the windmills alone will solve today's problems in the future, he is wrong. It's a supplement, nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1410	It's right as Tore Nordtun says, that there was an agreement in the energy communication on important points. The then central government was joined by the Workers' Party for increased investment in alternative energy sources and renewable energy sources. It was a historic boost. What is regrettable is that it has not been followed up later in the budgets of the Labour Party Government. But it is also true that there are different views in important areas. This is reflected in the gas power case – without going to go into it further – and it is reflected in the current situation, where there are proposals that we are on, but which the Workers' Party does not support, among other things. with a focus on management technology that can help each household achieve more efficient energy use and lower electricity billing. And that's exactly what's my main anchor against the Workers' Party. In a situation where action is needed, a monotonous approach is to draw a crisis picture and point to gas power plants, rather than pointing to the alternatives that we have agreed on – alternatives that, in total, can significantly improve both the power situation and the use of power, while at the same time helping to reduce the electricity billing and more efficient use of resources by the individual owner of the house. So I definitely believe that there is a basis for the criticism that I address to the Workers' Party. And I also react to the oil and energy minister's handling this winter, where I think he acted for periods as the purest darker. Instead of creating a good deal aimed at the clean, forward-looking environmental solutions, he tried to clear the terrain so that it would be accepted for the gas power grip that the government has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1417	When the representative Gunnar Kvassheim of the Left speaks about winging, a listener should listen with nocturnal attention, because it is an expert who speaks. What the representative of Kvassheim should have done instead of directing his attacks on the Right was to thank the Right because we put up with the other opposition parties and secured a majority for the new line of hydropower policy. That's what Gunnar Kvassheim should have done. Instead, he takes the time to attack us. Instead of going up to the pulpit and being potent and appearing like a victor, Gunnar Kvassheim should be sitting down in the hall with his head bent. For the central government put in fact for a year with this matter on its table without getting any things. You had to get in the opposition and go with the Right to get an impact on the Left's view on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1426	The next replicator is Jan Tore Sanner. No, sorry, the president was a little fast in the trigger. It's happened before. I think it's best for the President to give Mr. Kvassheim's opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1429	With as different opinions as it is in the right of this question, it was not natural for two from the same party to follow each other. When it came to the use of the wing concept, I was of course aware that I would then get the response that there is a term attached to the left. Now it is at least so that in energy policy we have stood for a tough course and a consistent line for ten-twenty years. It's right that the Right has had a new orientation. I think that's positive. And I think that the generation that Bent Höie represents has done an important job in his party. But then he's had a relapse, which I think many of those who belong to the same generation are surprised and sorry. That's what I found in my post. I have previously thanked the Right for assistance and assistance, so it was not necessary to spend time on today. That's why I related to the new development, that one in the last hour, for some reason, chose to go in for expansion in Melfjord. So it's said that the center administration had this case lying down without dealing with it satisfactorily. That's not right. The central government was working to find a solution that could give the result that we have today. And I know that the central government strategy was to invite Stortinget to a dialogue on how to find such a way out. It was exactly the same strategy the opposition chose in relation to the labor party government. The change was that a few weeks after the government change, the oil and energy minister went straight to the goal and said yes to development. So he said to me in the Storting in a line exchange: I had no other alternatives. There is a big difference between the handling that the central government had, and the go-signal that the Workers' Party gave, before they turned counter-clockwise after they counted to 165 and found out they were in the minority in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1440	I can assure the representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, that the reason for two right-wing representatives taking the floor in succession is not that these two representatives have different opinions. On the contrary, we have the same opinion. But there's reason to notice the violent commitment that Kvassheim is aiming at the Right. It is amazing, especially when the representative paid so much attention to the fact that this is a historic day. It is a historic day because the Storting withdraws concessions that are given, and leaves it not to expand watercourses that were intended to be expanded. Nor can one regard the Right's attitude towards Melfjord as a relapse, even in relation to the Right's national meeting decision. This is not a new decision to build a watercourse. This is a watercourse which has been previously decided upon and which the Right now believes can be expanded, provided that the additional impact studies show that it can be done within the requirements to be set. You get a little bit of the impression that when the representative Kvassheim speaks, it's like when someone has become green, others have to become even greener. This is how the Left plays an important role. I want to give tribute to the Left for the high environmental profile the party has had, and then you should be glad that other parties have found a reasonable crossroads with some of the centers. But then to the question. There is a strong commitment from the Left to bring forward new energy sources. Then it is a little surprising that the Left, along with the Workers' Party, has cut down on, among other things. the means of energy research. Can we expect the Left to join with the Right in the coming budgetary periods to step up the funding for research so that we can bring forward new energy and new energy sources and also increase energy efficiency? It's one of the new, important questions that comes when the Storting has made the decisions we're making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1451	I put the emphasis on the fact that it was a historic day, because the result has been reversed in the current enlargement case in Northern Ireland, and because it changes Norwegian policy in terms of hydropower development. There was the main element of my post. Then I used two lines to wonder about the Right View of Melfjord. It's considered a violent attack on the Right. There were two lines of well-advised, clear speech at my discretion. The right is a little further in terms of hydropower expansion. We saw that in the Upper Eighth case, where some central Right people wanted to say no to expansion, and where the result was a middle tree solution, along with the Workers' Party, i.e. for half expansion. We now see that faltering with regard to Melfjord. So to the question. It is right that the Right has put forward proposals for increased efforts in research on alternative energy sources. But it's also true that the centre parties put up a power cap to develop pure gas power technology. We were willing to provide a package of hundreds of millions of dollars in instruments. Yes, there were even lots of people who thought that, in sum, the incentives for which the centre parties went in, a billion stakes on pure gas power plants. This is why we were opposed to the comprehensive measures that we agreed to. Research and development of the technology in an interaction between authorities and industry was a key element of this package to develop clean and forward-looking gas power technologies. So the answer to the question is, the left wants to escalate research efforts in general, and energy is one of the areas we want to bet on in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1465	The use of hydropower has been crucial for the development of industry, employment and well-being in Norway. Hydropower is pure energy. Our energy supply is very environmentally friendly compared to all other countries. But our watercourses are also of great value for outdoor life and biological deprivation. Unfortunately, it is not to avoid the build-up of hydropower resulting in physical interference in nature, and untouched nature has known a value in itself. We have now expanded 65 pst in Norway. of our total hydropower potential. About 20 pst. is protected. The remaining watercourses are either very little profitable to build or highly conflict-filled. Therefore, there is reason to say that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants in Norway is over. The government will place greater emphasis on the importance of pristine nature in the treatment of future hydroelectric power supplies. I am pleased that the Storting gives its support to the Government's view of this point. The government has taken steps to stop the planned power-building projects of State Power in the Salt Mountain-Svartisen area, Beiarn, Bjællåga and Melfjord, for the sake of the environment. This decision was taken after a long and comprehensive treatment. The Beiarn extension was granted a concession in 1989. A development plan was launched in February 1998. In other words, this matter had a doctor for two years in the department without being treated on the day I took responsibility. The government, after careful assessment, found that the use of these three extensions is not large enough to defend the interventions that will be done in nature. When the Stortinget now joins this, I will give Statkraft the final instruction to scrape the three expansion projects. But it's important to make it clear that already developed hydropower has a special value, which we have to take care of. It is important that the values present in existing installations are further developed. We should not weaken the resource base for production for the treatment of revision and renewal of regulatory concessions. We would like to upgrade and extend the existing water power plant which does not damage the pristine nature. We are now starting to simplify the code, and we are starting to revise the Collect Plan and supplement the security plans. In the future, we cannot expect a particular new generation capacity from the hydropower. We must therefore turn towards other energy operators to meet their future needs. In the big message, I warn against a development in which the security of energy supply is gradually getting worse. Growth in the use of electricity continues. At the same time, new production capacity is almost not being replaced in Norway. In the 1990s, the use of electricity increased by about 18 TWh, while the growth in production capacity was only close to 4 TWh. Not enough knowledge or imagination to check that this development cannot continue. We need to achieve a better balance between consumption and production. It is a fact that during the 1990s we went from being in an excess position to becoming a country dependent on imports for a year of average rainfall. If evolution continues, the deficit will grow over the years. It surprises me that not everyone will take this reality inwards. The Norwegian energy supply is quite unique. Water power stands for almost all electricity production here in the country. The amount of rainfall varies considerably from one year to the next. The production of electricity therefore also varies from year to year, in fact as much as plus/minus 20 pst. of normal. In 2000, it rains a lot. We set a new production record, and exported flows abroad. However, we should not go back any longer than 1996 until we find a very dry year, with subsequent small power production and large imports. We know that such dry years will come again at regular intervals. Norway is now poorer equipped to handle such a dry year, simply because the imbalance between production and consumption has grown in recent years. If we get a new year now with precipitation corresponding to that in 1996, we do not have production and import capacity to cover our own consumption. All forecasts suggest that the growth of electricity use will continue, despite a strong commitment to measures such as energy savings. In addition, the situation is exacerbated by the fact that the other Nordic countries also have a weak growth in production compared to the growth in the use of electricity in these countries. I record that the majority in Stortinget believe that the message provides a realistic picture of the situation associated with the challenges of increased consumption and too one-sided use of electricity. There is a broad majority in Stortinget that supports the effort to limit energy use and build wind power and water well heat. Of course, I will follow up on the wish of the Government to develop an action plan for the development of water-borne heat. I stand firm on the measures that the Workers' Party and the Centre were a few about in connection with the processing of the energy message last spring. But, as we said a year ago, this isn't enough. In order to ensure a safe power supply and reduce the adverse effects of dry-years, it is necessary to facilitate new power generation in Norway. A tighter energy balance makes it even more important for measures to improve the impact balance. Statnet has entered into agreements on the market to reserve power both from production and from major users. This is something new. It can be further developed, both by large users and by smaller consumers, as more modern and more spacious technologies are developed. In order to improve the security of electricity supply, the Government is making an offensive and wide-ranging effort. We want a greater share of our gas resources to be used domestically, not just to produce electricity, but also directly. The use of domestic gas will play an important role in a forward-looking and environmentally friendly energy policy. At the same time, work on the conversion of energy use and production should be strengthened and the power market should be ensured. The central government's energy policy would increase the power deficit. Even with an ambitious commitment to an additional and renewable energy, their own figures and calculations showed that the need for imports of electricity would increase. With their policies, we would have a more vulnerable energy supply in the future, and we would help to keep up coal power production in Europe. It surprises me that such a policy can be presented as environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1508	In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, both the Norwegian, Nordic and international markets are relevant in relation to the balance of power. In the matter of State power, we would gain additional resources to balance such a balanced approach. This is also reflected in our remarks in this case. What is more surprising is the line of the Government and the Workers' Party in these two matters. In connection with the handling of the Statkraft case, St.prp. No 51, in fact, the state council rejected in a line change with me that the Norwegian market was relevant. No, now it was only the European free market that applied, and in a short time it would be fully operational. That was the message. There was no need to focus on the Norwegian market or the competitive situation on the Norwegian market, and there was no way of reassurance from the Council of State in this regard. Now, just a short time after, the argument has turned trills around. In St.meld. No 37 The search light is almost exclusively directed at the Norwegian power market. There is talk of rationing and national balance of forces. There is talk of power shortages, now in the intervention of the Council of State, and the need for new production capacity in Norway. Now, the Council of State is also following up with a thunderous speech on the situation in the Norwegian power market. So even though someone can certainly have the feeling that in the Christian People's Party we appreciate dark people, I see no reason to rely on such a dark man's strategy, as I think the Council of State is doing in this matter. What's the question, what's the government line? This is totally contradictory. What is the Government's line? Is it the Norwegian power market that applies, or are we in an international market? Is it St. prp? No 51 which applies, or is St.meld. No 37? I would like the Government's response to that and would like to have a clear and unambiguous answer to what is the basis of the Government's policy, and what is actually the Government's policy. You can't live with two political lines, you have to stick to one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1519	In his speech earlier today, Frafjord Johnson said that there was little excitement in the Government's energy message. This is not an energy message. The issue we are discussing today, which is on the energy balance, should have been part of the energy message that was made last year, because it would have provided the Stortinget with a better basis for discussing how to deal with the energy situation in Norway by 2020. I have nothing against being called the dark man. But what I have now disclosed is information, and I feel serious that I would not do my job as a councillor if I did not inform the Storting about the situation. The information I have had has only been disseminated, and it is the NVE and Statnett – those who have an overview of the situation in Norway – who have provided me with this situation description. That is why I feel it was my clear duty to inform Stortinget. Then, of course, the representatives of big business can decide on this and care about it or not, and I find that the Christian People's Party is among those who leave off and don't care that all the trade unions in Norway say that one has not a power crisis, but a pressure situation, and that it will actually be harder for us to cover our own consumption. And the situation is that if this year it gets as dry as it was in 1996, we have per cent. Today, transmission capacity is not enough into this country to cover our own consumption. It's a very serious situation. At least I have done my part of the job, I have informed Stortinget that this is the case, and then I have put forward a number of measures to improve the situation. There is no contradiction between trying to have as much production as possible in their own country and saying that Norway is part of an international market. But with the fact that the Christian People's Party and others are so very busy clarifying that we are part of a Nordic and Northern European market, they at the same time confirm that their responses to these challenges are only increasing imports. And we all know that that imports come from a lot worse energy sources than the power we can produce in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1531	The representative, Mr Sanner, had a reply to the representative, Mr Hegna, concerning the Workers' Party's remark in the vote, which relates to the fact that ‘there are several relevant projects within the overall plan and new projects which, through the conversion of the overall plan, could be further developed and realised under the current framework conditions’. The representative Sanner asked Hegna to put these projects into practice, which the representative Hegna obviously could not. And then it is necessary to ask the Council of State if he can specify which projects are relevant here for the Labour Party government to promote development, in the light of the debate we have had today. I also had two challenges to the Council of State in my article. One was related to a clarification in relation to the government’s management of who will be responsible for the follow-up to the national gas strategy, and the other was that one could already be given an indication of how far in the process the plans have come in relation to the Hatteberg watercourse. The third thing I want to ask the Council of State is his view of the exploitation of dry-year magazines. In its statement, the Council of State was concerned with dry-years and the problems that could result, but neither at the inception of the Council of State nor in the notification are the dry-year magazines described in particular in relation to the possible remedial effect they may have on the problems described by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1538	When it comes to the first question, it is not possible to clarify it, for all the applications for development must be dealt with individually. What we can say, is that there will now be greater demands than before, and where there is an intervention in pristine nature, the chances are extremely small for a person to be able to apply for their applications. We're going to have a total review of the Samla Plan, and we're going to work, as I said in my post, supplementing already adopted protective plans. When this is the case with national gas strategy, it is that the Storting has dealt with it. The committee brought up its configuration at a time when the currently processed message had already been printed. That's why there's a little different things there, but that's of course what the Storting has done, the Government is working on. When it comes to the Hatteberg watercourse, I've told you before that we should deal with it during the spring. Now I am a little uncertain as to how long the spring lasts in big business terminology, but in so far as it lasts until the Stortinget takes a vacation – and perhaps until the Council of State takes a vacation – it should at least be done. When it comes to dry-age magazine, we know that in 1996 they played a big role, and a useful opportunity to lose quite a bit of the magazine that one had. And it has played a major role for the might we had to produce power, so that the power generation in that year was separating greater than the precipitation was expected to. So it's of course important that we have magazines that have so much capacity that we can collect rainfall over several years. But of course, it's also so that when we're in an undershoot position, it becomes harder and harder to fill up these magazines so that it becomes a real reserve, the way they were when they were built in their time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1549	In the case of seasons, the President can at least make it clear that on the Stortinget there are two times, it's spring and harvest session.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1552	When we deal with the power balance and hydropower in Norway, we must not forget the situation of our powerful industry. During the budgetary procedure last autumn, the Government proposed to introduce an electricity tax on power-intensive industries, which would in reality lead to the eradication of this industry, and tens of thousands of jobs would be lost. Fortunately, it didn't go so wrong, but now we've got a projection on the table that means that the powerful industry is going to reduce its consumption from 33 to 25 TWh. The reactions of both PIL and LO Industry have been very sharp on the basis of this. And that's not very surprising. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: are these two examples I have mentioned here, part of a goal the Government has to put an end to the powerful industry in Norway? And if that's true, why doesn't he say it in pure words, instead of wrapping it in the way we've seen examples here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1557	I am very pleased that the representative here gives me the opportunity to say what everyone knows, that this industry is very important to the Labour Party, and that it is a goal for us to take care of this industry and let it have the opportunity to develop further in Norway. One must have similar framework conditions in Norway as one has in Europe, or where the competitors of this industry may be. History shows that we have done what is necessary for this industry to develop further in Norway, and it will also show future history. If you look at it very isolated, this industry uses a lot of energy, which some people might think is negative. But we have to make it clear that the option is not that this production doesn't go away. The alternative is that this production ends up in a different place, under entirely different environmental requirements, where the same product will be created with much more impurising energy sources, and not least under entirely different conditions when it relates to the emission of pollutants. For this reason, I would argue that one of the most offensive environmental policies could have is to ensure that the Norwegian power-intensive industry in Norway is able to develop in this area, rather than moving production to other countries where there is no corresponding environmental requirement for the environment around production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1564	Early in the 1980s there was great activity in power development in Sogn and Fjordane counties. Then it happened that Statkraft's projects were taken past the Samla Plan, while the county council's projects were placed under the Samla Plan's assessments. It resulted in deferrals and also in the protection of large-scale power development projects and large costs for the county. The county claimed compensation for this and was awarded 20 pst. part of the iostedal extension corresponding to 225 GWh. In 1997, the price of this force was fixed at between 40 and 50 øre per. kWh. The market price was then between 10 and 20 cents. There should be no great calculation skills to see that this was no real compensation. Sogn and Fjordane applied for 73.8 million in remuneration. kr. The ministry has declined this and is not willing to try it for Stortinget. The reasoning is, as I understand it, that there's nowhere to mention that the compensation should be real. Is the Council aware of these claims, and is willing to review them in light of the compensations provided in St.meld. No 37?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1569	I am not aware of this, and as I have not received a request from the current county council, I have not intended to do anything special about my own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1574	Let me first say that SV is content to have contributed to the Workers' Party now instructing State force in this matter, and thought it was positive. The first question is about the signal power that this has. One knows that there are a number of expansion projects planned, but from the Workers' Party and the majority of the population, it says that now there's the hydropower surge over, now it's the end of large hydropower expansions. I want to challenge this a little bit with size. It must be possible to say something more than that one is opposed to larger hydropower expansions. We need to know something about the size of this image. Is 0.5 TWh big, or is 1 TWh big? I wonder, and it's an important signal to give. So this is the reality thing. Governments place great emphasis on the fact that there is someone who does not take reality inwards. Then it's saying that, in my opinion, the Labour Party must have a little problem selecting which reality they want. If you look at environmental motions, which represent what's right for the future of this globe, you get a message about a reality. If you look in the opposite direction, as the Labour Party does, to the Right and the Advance Party, you get a completely different view. Then the gas power becomes the solution, that's the answer. So this really has something to do with what kind of basic vision and ideology you have, and this is where the Labour Party fails. Finally, SV is supported by the centre party when it comes to doing something about energy efficiency – something that would mean, for example: 14 TWh, if a bet is a bit on control technology. Why does the Labour Party, with its realism, not want to support such concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1588	I'm a little bit in doubt that this is the right place to discuss the size. At least there is no default response. Our policy is that we must have an individual treatment of the various applications. In theory, of course, there may be large projects where there are small physical interventions, and there may be small expansions with totally unacceptable natural interventions. We therefore need to maintain a thorough evaluation of the different applications. However, we believe that it is possible to simplify this in relation to today, so that one should not spend 8-10 years dealing with a matter. Now, with higher demands on what kind of physical intervention will be possible, I expect the power industry, which is very skilled and forward-looking, to be able to adapt to the new reality. So I'm sorry, I think Langeland mixes two circles, simply a sense of reality and a dream of desire. A lot of those who are opponents of gas power plants ignore reality and define a value as they might imagine it was. It may be a pleasant solution, but unfortunately it doesn't solve our problems. I feel that I have a great responsibility when all the professional bodies say that the situation in Norway has become much more stressful than it was, and then I have to inform the Stortinget about it. I've now done that. The Labour Party also has a strategy that allows us to reduce the problems that we are currently in the process of sailing into. But I feel quite sure that had our SV decided, the problems had only gotten bigger. I also feel quite sure that in the long term it would have been worse for the environment, because one then had to develop a lot of measures in a hurry without taking into account the environment, as one can do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1600	St.meld. No 37 contains two main points, one on power development of the Svartisen–Saltberg, and the other is the force balance. I'll start with the last part. The Communication refers to the Government’s long-term programme, in which it can be read from the projections of energy consumption that the process industry alone has to reduce its power consumption by 7 TWh in the coming years. This has caused concern in and around these companies. I am therefore very pleased that opinions in the position of the entire committee, and also answers from the Council of State Aksend, so strongly clarify that it is not appropriate to pursue a national policy that intends to reduce the activity of this industry. We all know that the products of these enterprises are in demand on the world market, and we therefore do not solve any environmental problems by cutting or moving these enterprises to countries where the requirement for environmental action is much lower than in Norway. Many of these businesses are located in District Norway, so it is also good district policy to keep these businesses. Then there is another issue that has also been district policy in the last century, namely hydroelectric development. I dare say that almost everyone in this country knows about these envisaged hydroelectric expansions in Salt Mountain – Black. For the Bjøllåga, Beiarn and Melfjord watercourses, regulation and manoeuvring regulations were adopted in 1989 and 1990 respectively. Then you can ask, why didn't Statkraft start these hydroelectric expansions? The answer at the time was that because of the power surplus and lack of profitability, this was not relevant. In the early 1990s, the Managing Director of Statkraft must have stated at a meeting with the municipality of Beiarn that there was no profitability in any of these projects, and he added that they were unlikely to reach a level of profitability until around 2005. We must not forget that until 1996 Norway was self-sufficient in electricity. In April 1996, the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted a five-year period to the Government for the start-up of hydroelectric development in Beiarn. Then the work started with the changes in plans, which were actually better for nature, but which many believe were not good enough after today's demands for nature and environmental protection. In 1998, Statkraft sent the planning applications for approval for all three watercourses. The Bondevik administration got a case on the table that it simply couldn't handle. I had several contacts with the State Councils of the Bondevik government in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection about the expansion of the Beiarn. The answer was that there was no legal basis for withdrawing the concessions, but this case remained in place for two years. Of course, when the Workers' Party took over the government power, the matter was ripe for a decision. There was no legal reason to reject or postpone the application. The only thing was that the Council of State instructed State force to stop in the expansions. Why didn't the Bondevik government decide this matter? Of course, the parties internally disagreed on whether to follow a legal law, or whether to instruct State Power to scrape the Beiarn expansion. They didn't do any of the parts, because it was the simplest. It is strange that when the same politicians again came into opposition on the Stortinget, they would like to decide this matter, and the Right Party and the Advance Party hung themselves happily on. The opposition on the Stortinget transformed this matter into a heated political matter, with correspondence time and time again from the opposition on the Stortinget to the Minister for Oil and Energy. Fortunately, Prime Minister Stoltenberg took responsibility again and decided the matter. After all, we had already laid the foundations for future hydropower development through the decision when we dealt with Upper Otta. It is therefore with great wonder that I record that the Right opens the way for development in Melfjord, when they simultaneously in the setting address all the damage to nature that this expansion provides. And if we think back to New Year's, we know that the Right Party and the Center Party almost shamed the Prime Minister's decision to stop in the further expansion of the Svartisen-Salt Mountains. So this is a total election campaign, not an environmental policy. Personally, I am of the opinion that legal decisions in Stortinget should be followed up, and that it is the responsibility of any government to implement the decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1622	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1625	I'm not going to delay the debate on this matter, but I feel a certain need to state that I represent a small minority in the Christian People's Party who are not equally happy with the totality of the result that came after the Prime Minister's New Year's Eve. Of course, this applies to the three power development projects in Saltberg, where I am of the same opinion as the municipality of Rødøy, and as the Nordland county is, there is a fairly large difference between the three expansion projects. And as we know, the Christian People's Party was also very committed to not having the Beiarn expansion. What was at the bottom of it was the major environmental interventions, but also that there was great resistance in the municipality and among environmental protection organisations to this development. The same applies to the construction of Bjøllåga; the municipality was here with delegations and asked that now it had to be enough, they didn't want it. As far as Melfjord is concerned, the situation is quite different. Rødøy municipality so in many ways this as an opportunity for the development of its own municipality. There were unanimous municipal decisions. The county has followed it up and said that the Melfjord expansion should have another chance, in a new investigation. In addition, in my opinion, there is also a smaller environmental impact related to the Melfjord development. That is why I will support one of the minority proposals available, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox But when we see that we lose this case, I'm glad that the committee stresses that the county council will receive its share of the compensation that Statkraft receives for lost income in the production of these plants. What is not said so clearly in the settings is: What about the municipalities that are affected? As far as I can see, both the Beiarn project and the Melfjord project are permitted to have an opportunity to make their claims for compensation. And then I want to pay particular attention to the Melfjord development and Redley municipality, which, in my opinion, according to the job they have done, and based on the agreements they made with Statkraft in the middle of December, must absolutely receive the financial compensation for the loss as, among other things, the loss. is in line with the treatment given to the municipality of Saltdal in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1634	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Votation, see pages 3299 and 3300]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1648	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3300]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1662	The size has decided that Statoil will be privatised by 1/3, and by listing, Stortinget has authorised the Ministry to acquire new owners equivalent to 15-25 pst. the value of the company. The size has also adopted a new management of DØE, including the sale of shares. Furthermore, the Stortinge has adopted a recast of the gas transport system. Following the adoption by the Stortinget of its decisions, it has been decided that Statoil should be listed in June. It would therefore be natural for the Council of State to give the Storting a briefing on the status and progress. In this context, it would also be natural for the Council of State to comment on the turbulence that arose around the valuation of Statoil, and not least the disagreement that was revealed last weekend between two departments. So to the case, which is about the creation and operation of the new management company for the production of natural gas, and the creation of the new company for the transport of natural gas. The Committee has no comments on the Government’s proposals. However, I would like to point out that the committee in the vote relates some comments to the matter. With regard to the management of the joint venture, the Committee stresses that it is and must be a very clear assumption that the company should not develop into a traditional oil company, that the company must therefore set aside various tasks for external operators, that clear success criteria must be established and methods established to measure them, and that the new joint venture must be able to sell and exchange shares. I would like to stress that the Committee believes that the company must recruit its people from different environments. This is important both to ensure broad competence and to ensure the independent role of the SE. With regard to the gas carrier, the Committee points out that the Storting wanted the state ownership of the new carrier to be stepped down to 51 p.m. by the gas sellers entering the owner’s side. I would like to ask the Council of State if it will now take the initiative to get the gas sellers on the owner's side of the operator's company. Furthermore, the majority refers to its comments at the Innst. S. No 198 in the case of phase two for gas transport, the desire to establish a joint ownership company for the gas pipelines, and the desire for a system based on GasLed. It was requested at the hearing that the Council of State called the companies concerned, so that they could be re-examined and established as soon as possible. There are also proposals from the Government to offer discounts to small savers. It's a follow-up to Storting's decision, and I want to express great satisfaction in choosing a model that stimulates small savers to go into the owner's side of Statoil. Finally, let me refer to the debate that has been around the valuation of Statoil. In this context, a number of questions have been related to the state ownership of the company. Let me then just show that the Storting was crystal clear in the setting, by stating that the purpose of the State co-ownership in Statoil is to ensure that the company is anchored with head office in Norway. Statoil must have full commercial freedom. There the Stortinget has been quite clear. I have no comments beyond that, but look forward to the Council's briefing on the status and progress of the stock exchange listing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1688	ML movement – which I can call them – has continued with its degradation and privatisation. Market forces should do the job on their own. It's the tune, and it keeps going today – with the Workers' Party on the tow. Of course, it's a development for which the real working party, SV, is sorry, not least because the parties actually didn't go to elections on it for the future, a privatisation of Statoil and the sale of DIE. My previous concern has been that one should focus on the fact that there are some issues relating to the EU, by having an EEA agreement. SV has argued that one should have clarified the consequences with respect to the EU before going to any form of privatisation. The majority have chosen not to listen to it. The majority have only decided that this will happen, and then they will see what the EU is thinking about. Now it turns out that the EU is putting pressure on the Government and on the Storing, as they have done for a long time. We have been kept informed that the Gas Negotiation Selection, GFU, may fall. And yesterday we were contacted by the oil and energy minister that now the GFU would fall. I am therefore interested in clarifying the actual situation when it concerns GFU. It may not have anything to do with the Gas Market Directive, but it can definitely have something to do with EU competition law and directives. This should be stated by the Council of State. I'm concerned that when one of them is shutting down, GFU is at risk of entering a different position from that of Russia and Algeria in which national gas dealers are located. This in turn may mean that prices of Norwegian gas will fall and that one will have an unfortunate distortion of competition with the other gas distributors. And, of course, the long-term view is at stake – like, for example. Ruhrgas told us when we were on a study trip with the committee in Germany – by not keeping the GFU by team. It was also confirmed in the news on TV yesterday. So I'd like to ask the Council of State to clarify a little bit about why it's shutting down for many years the very useful instrument GFU at the time that one is now well to do it, i.e., in connection with the privatisation of Statoil and the sale of DIE. Is it about privatisation? Or is it simply a matter of making the EU even more of Norwegian policy now? I have to give a little explanation of voice at the end. I refer to page 2 of the setting, where it has been done well for which different proposals for Decision SV are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1701	The President has noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1704	The Statoil and DIE case is one of the largest cases dealt with in this period. Then I'm not just thinking about the economic and political aspects of this matter. There are also many practical issues that need to be put in place to implement the Stortinget decision. The government is doing a good job. In line with the Stortinget’s decision on 26 April 2001, the share of the owner-owner’s shares is equivalent to 15 pst. of the value of DIE sold to Statoil. The price was $38.6 billion. In order to finance parts of the purchase, the State has granted Statoil a temporarily liable loan of DKK 13.6 billion, which the company is required to repay after the stock market with funds from the issue. A new public limited liability company to manage the residual operating life in the future is established under the name Petoro as. A new natural gas transport company, which shall be responsible for the operator of the Norwegian continental shelf gas pipeline systems, is established under the name Gassco as. It was important to implement these measures before Statoil was privatised. In addition, the process of saling of SEDØE-owner parts has the corresponding 6,5 pst. to Norwegian Hydro and others started, in the form of a letter to all stakeholders on Norwegian Socket. Work on preparing the stockroom and listing of Statoil is under way. On Friday 25 May, an indicative price range for the Statoil share was set at between 66 and 76 kroner. However, the price of the share may be higher or lower. At this price level, Statoil is worth between 145 and 166 billion kroner after the issue. Yesterday, in Statoil, the lease began its presentation round of the company and market campaigns in Norway and abroad, often referred to as ‘roadshow’. Furthermore, start the ordering period for institutional investors, and tomorrow private investors can order axes. June 15 is the last day of booking for axles. This applies to both institutions and individuals. End bar will be set at 0 p.m. 15 Norwegian times all over the globe. The plan is to record the Statoil share on Oslo Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange on the first day of action on 18 June 2001. The Statoil Stock Hall shall be executed by a combination of the issue and sale of the State's axes. The offer will represent between 15 and 20 pst. by the company's share capital following an exchange listing, excluding an over-allotment option. If you were to use this over-allotment option, you would be able to sell up to 23 pst. by the company's share value. In line with the Stortinget's signal of special incentives, individuals will receive a discount of NOK 3 per person. the action. In addition, a bonus share is granted for each 10th share if an axe owner until 17 June 2002, in other words if an axe owner for 12 months. The allocation will be payable on the purchase of shares up to NOK 25 000. The minimum amount for the order is NOK 5000. The government will continue to work for the best possible implementation of the measures taken to ensure the highest possible value creation for the country. I am, of course, pleased with the commitment made by the Committee on Energy and the Environment today to the proposals made on the basis of the promises, in order to follow up its decision of 26 April. These are big and comprehensive things. This applies to the founding of two new companies and a good deal of administration associated with these sales processes to be done. It is therefore important to have sufficient permissions and powers to ensure the proper implementation and protection of the ownership interests of the State, as this Decision currently allows. The government will come back with information on revenue and expenditure related to the measures as soon as these are resolved. For other questions to be clarified, such as: The ownership of the pipeline system, we have started a preparatory work in the department. We will call the different operators on the socket, so that the work can be started. There have been some newspaper writings and speculations about the contradictions between the different departments in connection with this matter. So let me clarify what happened last Friday. We got it early in the morning, at 4:00 a.m. 05.30, the various analyses, both from the bank syndicate, our organizers, and also our own consultant. There was a lot of information, and important decisions were to be taken. There were different assessments of the situation. This caused us to misjudge the time spent dealing with these matters. I can therefore cancel what has happened in the newspapers afterwards, i.e. there was a problem between two of the departments that made one not reach the point of time one had first seen. It's like the government has had a very ambitious plan. That plan was set up early in April, and we've managed to keep it to the point and the dot until now. On Wednesday we were unfortunately five hours late – I am sorry for that. There is no serious event in itself. What was unfortunate was that we had called in to the press conference before we were aware of how long it would take to deal with these matters. Unfortunately, it created unnecessary speculations about what happened when it spelled out the specific decisions that were to be taken. But I can fully confirm from this chair that there are no significant differences between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and it is of course an advantage to me that several departments are involved and quality assurance of the decisions that are taken. I want to clarify that 1 pst. The price estimate is SEK 1.5 billion, so it is important that you do a good and thorough job here. I think that's what I've been doing. When it comes to the question of GFU, I think it has nothing to do with the matter today, but with the President's permission, I will still try to answer the questions I have received. It is therefore the case that the GFU scheme has been under attack for a long time, partly through the general conditions of competition existing in the EU system and partly as part of the gas market Directive. However, our attitude has been that the GFU scheme is legal and could have continued to exist. The GFU scheme has worked very well and has been very important as an instrument for further development of the Norwegian base. In the light of the GFU scheme, it has been possible to develop large infrastructure. But now we're in a different situation. The gas market has changed in total, much more liberalisation has taken place. This means that both the gas buyers and the gas sellers are more interested in being in a larger part of the chain. It is also the case that there is free capacity in already developed infrastructure, so that a Norwegian base can be further developed when it comes to gas without building any significant new infrastructure. I see that the future of a gas market directive could be a little more uncertain than it has been until now. But it's not that one can say that it will automatically turn negative. So we from the Norwegian side now want to go from a seller to a probably three, at least of a certain size. Of course, it will not be such that there will be a separate price of Norwegian gas in Europe. It will be a market, and it is of course to do for everyone who is an operator on that market to get the most back for their product. But either a cell fish or a cell sells its house, or other commodities for the cause, a not even dictates the market, a must be found in the conditions that exist on the market. The reason why I'm not worried is that all the signals indicate that the use of gas in Europe, the sale of gas or the purchase of gas, will go up. Norway is the closest country, and we also have free capacity in the infrastructure. Therefore, I feel that the decision I made yesterday was both natural and just as the situation is otherwise. Then to quit. The thing that we're dealing with here is a very big and comprehensive thing. It has been, and it is, very extensive processes carried out under the direction of the Department and Statoil. We have had a very ambitious schedule, so that one could manage the stock exchange introduction in June. I am happy to announce to the Stortinget that this plan keeps us, it keeps us to the point and point to now, and everything indicates that the stock market introduction can be done as planned, in line with the Stortinget's decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1742	Let me first take the opportunity to thank you for the briefing, which I find satisfactory. There has been good cooperation between the Committee and the State Council in this matter, and that is important in the sales process that we are now going to go into. I am also pleased that the Council of State confirms that the department is now following up the Storting's wish for a phase 2 gas transport, an implementation of GasLed. In its briefing, the Council of State states that there has been no disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Oil and Energy – it was later addressed that there has been no significant disagreement. Now there's no point in making a big number of a discussion between two departments, because that's natural. And as the Council of State also underlined: there is a need to clarify and ensure the quality of the department's figures. What is unfortunate is that it is produced in such a way that one department tries to price it, and that is how it was produced through the media. We also have the handling of Telenor's stock exchange listing in fresh memory, and no one wants to repeat it. The Council of State said that a marginal price estimate could mean billions of dollars. We know that the handling of this case could give a price indication, and therefore could also lead to billions in any losses. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of the fact that the departments are now dealing with the matter convincingly. At present, there is nothing to do with the state being such a dominant owner in Statoil, but it is clear that the signals we are now giving about how the state will handle the ownership of a future Statoil could affect the price. So I just want to ask the Council of State to confirm that there is good dialogue between the different departments, and that we avoid disagreement and public discussion between the departments towards stock exchange listing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1755	Of course, I can confirm this. It is also such that we have made our experience with regard to what happened last Friday. What's stupid, and what I think is the worst about this case, is that the post-press lookup isn't in any way covering up for what was the real situation. But on the other hand, I can also understand that the press begins to speculate when an appointed meeting is postponed. It was simply so that a purely practical couldn't handle this amount of information and all the decisions that one would take during that day, in the hours that one had seen of. One therefore had to spend a little longer time than what was originally planned. I'm also sorry that a picture has been created that there's a lot of mess between departments. Of course, it is common in all governments that there are major discussions between different departments, but in this case – at that time – that is not the reason why one had to spend some longer time. That is why I am sorry that the impression has been created. I would also like to point out – in line with Jan Tore Sanner – that the oil sector should be a good example of the Norwegian state's being very clean as the owner of the company, and it has been clarified that Statoil for the future, as it has been until now, should operate as a commercial company, regardless of how many axles the state owns.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1764	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3301]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1782	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 3, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right and Central Party, proposal No. 4, from Øyvind Vaksdal on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the instructions of Statkraft to remove the plans for the development of the three projects Beirarn, Bjellåga and Melfjord, and to take into account the option of Statkraft 2 with 3 m attenuation of the Ramkull water at the Beiarn Extension.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1810	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3 from the Right and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the development of Melfjord. The necessary additional impact studies must be carried out before the final authorisation is granted and any remedial measures must be implemented.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1824	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate a system of electricity prices that varies during the day, at a higher price at times when consumption is experienced.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget in 2002 to submit proposals to facilitate the more efficient use of energy in existing building stock through various incentives and measures leading, for example, to the installation of new management technology.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e1867	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e2026	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-30.ana.ud473e2085	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
