ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e41	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 26 October 2001: ‘In the Council of State for H.K.H. The Crown Prince’s Regent held at Oslo Castle on October 26, 2001 at 9.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:The following is appointed State Secretary: Secretary Lars Arne Ryssdal, Ministry of Labour and Administration Commander Gunnar Heløe, Ministry of Defence, Kst. Advocate General for Defence Jørn Holme, Ministry of Justice and Police Personnel Chief Rita Sletner, Ministry of Justice and Police Research Helge Ole Bergesen, Ministry of Education, Education and Research Bankshef Anders Johan Henrik Eira, Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs Decanus Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, Department of Municipal and Regional Affairs Senior Adviser Morten Andreas Meyer, Department of Municipal and Regional Affairs, Director Oluf Ulseth, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, Director Brit Skjelbæd, Department of Oil and Energy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Department of Development’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The representative Einar Holstad, who has been licensed, has taken the seat. From representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Synnøve Konglevoll, Øyvind Korsberg, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Siri A. Meling, applications for leave are available from 6 November to 9 November – all to attend the Seventh Party Conference under the United Nations Climate Convention in Marrakech, Morocco. The applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen, is prevented from meeting under the representative Synnøve Konglevoll's leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For East-Agder County: Tormod Wagsnes For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Troms County: Per-Willy Amundsen and Arne Bergland For South-Trøndelag County: Jørund Leknes 2nd@item: inlistbox Per-Willy Amundsen and Jørund Leknes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e114	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e117	I allow myself to submit proposals for an action plan to stimulate the employment of older workers, including the reduction or removal of the employer’s fee for all over 55 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e122	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e125	I allow myself to make a proposal that concerns the clarification and clarification of the calculation basis for water and sewerage charges in the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e130	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e142	The President is asking for proposals for new members to the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e145	: I am delighted to propose Hans R. Kjæstad and Peter Gitmark instead of Kristin Krohn Devold and Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e150	Hans R. Kjæstad and Peter Gitmark are proposed to be elected to the Lagtinget instead of Kristin Krohn Devold and Ingjerd Schou, who have entered the Government. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e170	The President first requests proposals for new members to the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e173	I would like to suggest Jens Stoltenberg instead of Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e178	Jens Stoltenberg has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Knut Storberget. - Are there any more suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e181	I propose Jan Tore Sanner, Ivar Kristiansen, Siri A. Meling, Kari Lise Holmberg and Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e186	Jan Tore Sanner, Ivar Kristiansen, Siri A. Meling, Kari Lise Holmberg and Bent Höie are proposed as new members of the election committee instead of Kristin Krohn Devold, Per-Christian Foss, Ansgar Gabrielsen, Jan Petersen and Erna Solberg, who have entered the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e189	The Christian People's Party proposes Jon Lilletun as a new member instead of Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e194	Jon Lilletun has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Kjell Magne Bondevik, who has joined the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e197	I suggest Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e202	Trine Skei Grande has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Lars Sponheim, who has joined the Government. Several proposals are not available, and they are generally voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e214	The President then asks for proposals for new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e217	As alternates, I propose Sverre J. Hoddevik, Heidi Larssen, Michael Momyr, Jan Olav Olsen and Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e222	Sverre J. Hoddevik, Heidi Larssen, Michael Momyr, Jan Olav Olsen and Martin Engeset have been proposed as new alternates to the electoral committee respectively in referenced order as No. 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, for the right. Other proposals are not available, and are generally accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e233	The President takes the view that it is natural to propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole, taking into account the nature of the cases — and consider them to be consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e258	With regard to the determination of the salary of the aggregate representatives, it is such that no assembly other than the Storting itself can take a final decision on it. That's the way the institution is, it's supposed to be -- and we have to be adults enough to be able to deal with such a situation. There will always be someone here in the hall who thinks it's too small – and someone thinks it's just right, while others think it's too much. That's the way it's going to be in society. It is quite reasonable that there will be many perceptions of what is right and what is wrong pay for the country's foremost political confidence elected. Thus, a few years ago, it took action to appoint representatives of high authority and high trust in society to review continuously the wage developments in society — both at the general level and at the level of the leadership — and to propose to the Stortinget on how to regulate the salaries of large-scale representatives, state councils and prime minister. In this way, we would have – and we have been given – an unhindered group that is promoting proposals for the Stortinge on how this should be. It has been a tradition for – and it should be – the Stortinget to follow the recommendations of this Commission. Should it not be that one followed that recommendation, one had to take the step fully and shut down the Commission and go back to old times, with an assessment and an attitude from the Presidency. It won't be preferable. We then get a position from the payroll commission where it actually reviews the situation of different employee groups and concludes. I regret the fact that the Commission has made serious and proper, but also long-term, assessments of its position. I will not go into, nor add up, any discussion of the amount, but just say that the Presidentship of the Storting has joined the proposal of the Wage Commission and recommends the Stortinget to take decisions in accordance with the position of the Wage Commission – both for large-scale representatives, for government councils and for Prime Minister. So it is that in the setting of this matter there is brought in a different question than the purely pay question. It is the Presidential member of Ågot Valle who believes – obviously it has to be understood – that the salary question should be linked to the pension question. I strongly recommend that you do not. I would recommend that the Storting here and now take a position on the pay question, to which one is invited, and that one not enter into a discussion, either on a principle or on a practical basis, about the Storting pension scheme. We have other forums and other opportunities to discuss it. I would therefore recommend to Stortinget that there be no vote in favour of the proposal of a minority of the Presidency as indicated in the vote. This also applies to the proposal submitted by the Central Party, which I see is distributed on the table of the representatives. With this, I would recommend the Presidency's recommendation on wages and salaries for high-ranking representatives, government members and Prime Minister. I also allow myself to say that the Presidentship of the Storting on an independent basis has had an assessment of the salary of the Supreme Justice and Supreme Court judges. We have had conversations with the Supreme Court Justice and, in the light of the discussions, we have had a discussion about wage developments in the Supreme Court. In the light of that discussion, we have made a unanimous proposal to the Stortinget on the regulation of pay for the Supreme Justice and Supreme Court judges, which I take up and recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e277	It is true that we have a proposal for a salary increase for large-scale representatives and government members. I'll come back to how we relate to the proposed salary increase. For SV, it is important to see pay and pension schemes as a whole, because they are linked. We believe that it is extremely important that these arrangements be seen as fair and reasonable among people, because we are elected by the people, and we should have trust among people. We have, as has been said, comments on the proposed wage increase, but what is most important for SV is to clean up the pension situation. It is simply not fair for us, as elected and elected representatives, to have completely different pension schemes from those we decide to have. So, while most people's pensions are linked to the basic amount of the population, they have total pension representatives, 66 pst. of the current gross wages and salaries at all times. I would like to remind you that this assembly is the one that regulates the basic amount of the population. Many people have pointed out that the basic amount has been under-regulated for many years. It's also this underregulation that leads to many being minimum pensioners. When the Storting believes that representatives deserve to have such good pension schemes, how can the Storting, which thus regulates the basic amount, feel that many should feel much worse? That's our question. SV believes that it weakens the confidence that the people's electors must have, when one is not willing to settle this imbalance. If the Storting continues to grant relatively high wage increases, at worst – and that's worst of all from the SV side – many of us, once we go into a well-deserved pensioner's life, can have better wages than what we have per year. today. I would like to remind this assembly that while the full payment pension was NOK 195 000 in 1996, it will be NOK 343 000 from now on. There's an increase of 148 000 kroner in five years. When the Storting cleared up the salary situation in 1996 — and that cleanup was agreed upon by SV — at the same time saw the unfairness of pension schemes. SV has addressed this several times, last last year at this time and in the so-called Brørby Committee, which looked at the working conditions of the big business representatives. Nor was it then a willingness to do anything. Despite what the President-in-Office said and encouraged Stortinget, I now hope for a new big deal. So the salary increase. Since we want to see wages and pensions together, today we are going to vote against the proposed increase. We don't believe that big business representatives or government members should be low-wage, not at all. We believe that pay and compensation should reflect both that we are elected to the people and that we have a responsible job. We believe that if we are to give ourselves a higher salary – and there may be reasons for this – it should not be above average salary increases. I want to comment on some of the arguments we're being met with, which are also used to have a relatively high salary increase. Wages should not prevent recruitment, it is said many times. To that end, it is important to recruit widely to the Storting, and it is important that the policy is recruited on the basis of commitment and not on the basis of high wages. It is not that it is difficult to recruit neither for government nor for big ones. Then we're going to meet with the argument that there's a payroll commission, that's what the prime minister said, and once we've set up a payroll commission, we're going to follow it. To say that it's The Storing that at the seventh and last determines the remuneration, and it's allowed to use common sense. SV was opposed to the creation of the payroll commission, and we warned at the time that there might be a depoliticisation of the remuneration decision. Now we see that exactly what we were warning about is happening, that the Storting is covering up behind the payroll commission. That's why we think it's time to review the payroll commission as well and perhaps propose that we abolish the scheme. We'll probably come back to that in a later time. Then I see with pleasure that the centre party is going to promote a proposal almost identical to what SV has. I think it's good that the Center Party is in the gli, and I also had hopes that the Center Party was in the gli. I'm waiting with tension on the foundation, why they're promoting almost identical proposals. I see that there's a difference in that they don't per. today will address the link with the annual adjustment of the basic amount. For us, that's exactly what the cloud is. With regard to the salaries of the Supreme Court, we agree with the setting and will vote in favour of it. Then I will deal with the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e307	Ågot Valle has addressed the minority proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e310	A review of gross wages was carried out in 1996. Wage determination was organised in such a way that a commission of its own would advise the Stortinget, which would then make its decisions. The center party thinks it's a clean system. However, in the Centre Party’s Group, several questions arise from the basis of the Commission’s assessments. We would have liked to have seen a system in which gross wages were fixed at a level where, one year for years, percentage changes in wages could be followed, otherwise, as an alternative to a crown sum, which is now proposed year by year. We invite the Presidency to discuss this further with the Commission. Then last year, in the debate on the same issue as today, the Central Party was one of several parties that put the search results on the pension schemes both for large-scale representatives and for government members. We want a review of both the ignition time and the level. We would like to have presented ourselves with a case that deals with both an assessment of the real value of the pension today and a comparison with the pensions in other Nordic countries, and where one also looks at the ignition time. Now we notice that the President today says that there are other ways to bring up such a case than to make suggestions here in the Chamber. Yes, there were several parties that tried other ways last year and asked for such a review. It was shown both on a matter of the presidency, and on the Brørby Committee and on the work it was doing and on the working conditions of large-scale representatives. We can't see that there's been any follow-up on this point for Storting. That is why we have allowed ourselves to make a proposal today. The Central Party has no representative in the Presidency during this period, due to this proposal in the Chamber today. A comparison with the proposal already put forward by SV will reveal that the Central Party’s proposal is open in its form, so we want a review with a view to greater consistency with more common pension rules. We want the review first before we, as SV has already done, decide on a connection to the regulation of the amount of the crown in the population. I take this up with the Center Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e321	Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal to which she referred, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Votation, see below and next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e331	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the case no. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e338	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Ågot Valleproposal No. 2, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Center Party Mr Valle has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e350	Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa explained that the proposal of the Center Party was more open than ours, and that is quite correct. We support that proposal, given that it opens up a review of the arrangements. That is why I ask that we vote for our proposal first, so that we have the opportunity to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Central Party. We are voting against the attitude of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e355	The President has nothing to object to, and assumes that no one else has any objection to such a voting order. That is the first time that proposal No has been voted on. 1 by Mr Ågot Valle, Member of the Presidency, and then on proposal No. 2, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Center Party, and at last it is voted over the setting. Proposal No. 1, by Mr Ågot Valle, Member of the Presidency, says: ‘The budget asks the Presidency to take the initiative to make changes to the pension schemes of the depositors and the members of the government in order to bring them more into line with common pension rules, inter alia, in order to ensure that annual pension regulation follows the basic amount of the social security.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-01.ana.ud1761e374	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Presidency to conduct a review of the plans for depositors and government members with a view to greater consistency with more common pension schemes.’
