ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e23	The representatives Gunnar Halvorsen and Anne Helen Rui, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The President shall report that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee held at the Constituent Meeting of the European Parliament on 9 October 2001 resulted in 161 votes for all the members and alternates proposed. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e48	The events of September 11 shook us all. The terrorist attacks in the United States and their cold water incidents have created increased international uncertainty. The outlook for growth in the world economy is weakened. There have been strong reactions in financial markets. Share prices have fallen sharply, and the oil price has fallen. Norway is a country that sells a lot to abroad, and buys a lot from abroad. The Norwegian economy is affected by international developments. With lower growth in the world economy, we must be prepared for further reductions in the oil price. We are therefore going into a time of increased uncertainty also for the Norwegian economy. The increased uncertainty shows us the importance of a stable and responsible economic policy, a policy that ensures predictability and long-term sustainability. The government is currently presenting a budget based on such a policy. We strengthen Community solutions and reduce taxes on labour. We use more of the oil revenue than before, but no more than that resulting from the new rule of action for the budgetary policy laid down in ours. It implies a consistent and sound use of oil revenues. The new guidelines for budgetary policy are widely accepted in the Grand Duchy. The international economy has developed clearly weaker in recent months than most previously thought. Even before the terrorist attacks in the United States, there were clear signs of lower growth in both the United States, Europe and Japan. The terrorist acts of September 11 gave rise to fear. Events can change consumer and business faith in the future. The growth of the world economy may this year be the lowest since the beginning of the 1990s. We still believe that growth will resume internationally in the next year. However, the risk of a stronger and longer-term setback has increased. The decline in growth internationally will result in lower Norwegian export growth. In other areas of the Norwegian economy too, there have been signs of weaker developments in recent months. Lower oil prices could gradually lead to lower investments in the North Sea. However, the main picture is that the activity of the Norwegian economy is high. We have low unemployment and high professional participation. Production in mainland Norway is estimated to grow by close to 2 pst. Next year. Growth is limited in the first row by the lack of labour. Sometimes you can get the impression that there is a problem that we do not have the labour force to put into important areas. But it's not! It is a quality stamp of the Norwegian economy that we make good use of our resources. It's through work that we create values. That's why we've been able to expand kindergartens, schools, health care and care for the elderly in recent years, and that's why we've been able to have a formidable growth in private wealth in the last decade. No one wants to return to a situation of high unemployment and unoccupied premises and production equipment, as we experienced in the early 1990s. But at the same time, this situation presents us with challenging challenges. In several industries, there is now a major shortage of labour. Moreover, with low unemployment and record professional participation, it is not possible to pick up so many more people in the labour market. The labour shortage has put pressure on wages. Also this year, labour cost growth is clearly higher in Norway than in the countries around us. This is the fifth consecutive year that the growth in earnings in Norway is higher than in the countries with which we compete. Next year, cost developments are estimated to be more in line with our trading partners. But it requires a moderate and responsible wage settlement. The price increase is assumed to be lower. The real wage growth next year will therefore still be good. The Norwegian economy is strong. It is also more robust against economic setbacks than in the last half of the 1980s. It's important in a situation where the uncertainty around us has increased. Norway is rich in natural resources. Oil revenues give us an economic freedom that few other countries have. But we must not forget that production in mainland Norway represents four-fifths of our total production. It is the labour force that is our most important resource – not the oil. For example, if we: If we grant ourselves 2.5 hours of shorter weekly working time, we reduce national wealth as much as if the entire oil wealth were gone. In order to achieve stable economic development, we need to ensure that we gradually use oil revenues. It requires the use of oil revenues to be distinguished from performance, which varies considerably from year to year. Most of the high oil revenues in the years ahead should therefore be set aside in the petroleum fund. The uncertainty about the level of future oil revenues also makes too much sense in budgetary policy. The recent sharp fall in oil prices provides an important reminder of this. I am pleased that there is such broad agreement on the new economic policy guidelines that the Government presented in our year, not only in the United Kingdom, but also in the economic disciplines. Budgetary policy shall ensure a consistent and sound use of oil revenue. At the same time, it shall smooth out fluctuations in the economy. An action rule was established for budgetary policy which states that oil revenues are to be phased in at the rate of the yield of the petroleum fund. The rule is simple and credible. The government's draft budget follows this rule of action. We use the expected real return on the petroleum fund – neither more nor less. It would be very unfortunate if, in a lack of ability to make political choices, someone would fall for the temptation to break the new guidelines that have been so widely welcomed. It would eliminate credibility, and with that predictability. This would weaken the possibilities of a lower interest rate. The budget policy action rule provides for an increase in the use of oil revenues from 2001 to 2002 of approximately DKK 6 billion. This is NOK 2 billion more than estimated in the revised national budget in May. There are several reasons for this upgrading. The revised national budget drew attention to the fact that the estimates for the petroleum fund did not include revenues from the sale of Statoil shares and sales of SEDØE shares. This has now been incorporated. Furthermore, the use of oil revenues in the current year appears to be lower than previously estimated, increasing from this year to next year. The estimates for the petroleum fund are based on the information that the Government had when it completed its work on the budget. We suggest that half of the increased space for action is used to reduce taxes and taxes. That's in line with what we put up to in ours. At that time, we also said that the importance of the competitive sector and the need to avoid major economic shifts should be given great importance. The enhanced space for action must therefore be used in a way that strengthens the growth capacity of the economy. Lower taxes on labour, improved infrastructure measures and measures to generate new knowledge through research and development are important in this context. Some seem to believe that the new rule of action on the use of oil money together with annual economic growth can pay for large increases in expenditure and large tax reductions. But it's not that simple. The rule of action gives room to spend about NOK 6 billion more per person. years in the coming years, i.e. 24 billion more in 2005 than in 2001. If half is used to reduce taxes and taxes, it's $12 billion. Increased output and growth in the economy generate increased tax revenues that can be used to finance increased expenditure and new investments. In the political debate, however, many people forget that economic growth also brings with it increased expenditure. Higher growth usually also means higher real wages. It also means increasing labour costs in general government. Similarly, social security benefits are increasing in line with wage developments. In addition, assistance is increasing as the economy grows. This shows that one does not go beyond the difficult priorities. Large expenditure increases or large tax reductions can only be made by cutting in other parts of the budget. That's why it's as important to see how to clear up space for these bets as to what bets you want to clear up space for. Or, to put it even more clearly, the scope of budgetary policy is determined by the tax revenue resulting from economic growth and the increased use of oil revenues resulting from the rule of action. However, the welfare systems we have already established could alone capture large parts of this. Until 2010, the whole space of action resulting from the growth of the economy will be able to contribute to the financing of the established welfare systems. In addition, half of the operating space resulting from increased use of oil revenues could also be included. This was thoroughly highlighted in the Government’s long-term programme. This also underlines that we still need to look for ways of making better use of resources, getting more well-being out of the money. The Government will strengthen Community solutions. That's why we're renewing them, as we do through the hospital reforms, at the universities, in the police, in the defense and in the equation management. The draft budget presented by the Government today provides better and fairer welfare services for most people. It gives a fairer distribution and a boost for the most disadvantaged, and it gives lower taxes on work. At the same time, the proposal contributes to stable economic development. The government is presenting a budget that will improve the conditions of growth for children and young people. You ask a young family what is their biggest challenge, a lot of people will answer that there is a shortage of kindergartens, and if they have kindergartens, the price parents have to pay. Then we have to do something about it! Good childcare facilities are important for children’s growing-up conditions and for parents’ ability to participate in the labour market. The government wants all children who want it to be offered a children's playground. At the same time, we want to halve the parental payment. The government therefore proposes a sharp increase in the appropriations allocated to kindergartens. The bet is about $1 billion. It shall provide 10,000 new kindergartens. The parental payment may be reduced by approximately NOK 4000 compared to the level in the first half of 2001. We will propose a statutory entitlement to kindergarten from 2006. And the Workers' Party will propose an extra DKK 1 billion to kindergartens every year until we reach the goal of halving the parental payment over the next four years. Good housing is essential for growth and living conditions. Housing prices have continued to increase, especially in large cities. Today, we are presenting several measures to make it easier for young people to get a place to live. The lending framework in the House Bank is increased by NOK 2 billion. The housing subsidy framework is being increased so that the construction of rental dwellings can be stepped up. The housing stock is increasing in the big cities. At the same time, we must remind each other that a responsible economic policy that prevents increased pressure on interest rates is the most important thing to prevent young people from increasing living costs. Voluntary work is a resource for Norway, a resource that deserves support and encouragement. Voluntary work on children and young people is of great importance for active local settings and for the prevention of social problems. In the usual afternoon, 300,000 children and young people under the age of 17 are engaged in sports. A location between 25 000 and 30,000 parents provides free of charge. Both the sports teams, the choirs and the corps, the speeding movement and the rest of the organization make an invaluable effort. The government will therefore support the voluntary work of children and young people. The Labour Party and the Centre Parties agreed this year, when considering the revised national budget, that voluntary organisations should be compensated for additional expenditure resulting from the VAT reform. This is now being followed up. In addition, the tax credit for gifts to non-governmental organisations is doubled. The government is providing a budget in which the appropriations for culture are stepped up. Cultural life in Norway is flourishing. Culture gives us inspiration, creativity and belonging. Therefore, we will step up the allocation of culture every year until 2005. We're already starting this year, and we're continuing next year. This makes it possible to increase bets on, among other things. museums, libraries, archives and films. Press support is being increased. It is important that more people have the opportunity to experience different parts of our cultural life. We therefore propose increased festival support, increased funding for jazz and rhythmic music, dance and opera. In addition, an investment plan is presented for national cultural buildings and thousands of years, with projects and allocation needs up to 2005. Starting appropriations for a number of these projects are proposed across the country. The government provides a budget that will strengthen education and research. The Workers' Party has carried out many major educational reforms in recent years: six-year-olds' school start, ten-year-old primary school, three-year-old secondary education and a high level of higher education. Now the task is to increase the quality of education. There is a great need for upgrading schools in many places. Degraded schools are a symbol that the public is not able to do the problems well enough. We have to do something about this and we're going to do something about it. Municipalities and county councils have the primary responsibility for this task. We want to improve the ability of municipalities and county councils to do the job. As a result, the revenue of the local government sector in 2002 is actually increased by approximately DKK3.5 billion compared to the revenue level for 2001 on which it was based in spring. Of these, the free revenues amount to approximately NOK 13⁄4 billion. This is the same thing as the government announced in ours. In addition, we will establish a new state funding scheme for schools. This scheme will enable municipalities to raise interest-free loans totalling DKK 15 billion for the rehabilitation, organisation and reconstruction of school facilities. The quality of teaching also needs to be improved. We want to improve teacher training. We will take new thanks to ensure teachers good pay and working conditions. And we're increasing the appropriations for computer equipment in school. Primary school shall be free of charge. Then it makes the impression when we hear about children who stay at home because their parents can't afford to pay the excess to go to camp school. We therefore propose to introduce free primary schooling from the autumn of 2002. We will expand the system of free higher education materials with a view to providing free learning material for all from the autumn of 2003. It could save every student from NOK 3000 to NOK 4000 per student. years. One of the many measures that this government has taken to renew the public sector is a reform of improved quality in higher education. The degree structure is changing to be more similar to that of other countries. The studies will be shorter. The students get to work faster, and they get increased scholarships so that they can see their advice to study full-time. Universities and colleges are now receiving increased funds to start work on this quality reform. At the same time, we propose to increase education support for students to 80 000 kroner from the autumn of 2002. This is an increase of about NOK 10 000 per person. years. The government proposes a real increase in the total research effort of about DKK 1.7 billion. This is a sharp increase – far beyond what the Stortinget has previously foreseen. Of these, an additional tax credit scheme for business research amounts to approximately 400 million. kr. In addition to basic research, we prioritise research in the marine sector, energy and environment, medicine and information technology. The research and innovation fund will be increased by DKK 1 billion. At the same time, we propose to set up Niels Henrik Abel's memory fund to help make the math and real subjects visible – and Norway as a knowledge nation. The government provides a budget that will increase health and patient care efforts in hospitals. Good health services are a central part of the public welfare service. We have good health services both in terms of scale and quality. But the waiting lists at the hospitals are too long, despite the fact that we spend more money for health than ever. In last year's financial speech, I pointed out that we are now spending four times more on health than we did in 1960, that Norway is among those countries in Europe that spend the most public money on health, and that we are treating about 100,000 more patients than 10 years ago. And I pointed out that health problems are not just money issues. It's probably so much a question of better organising the health care system. Therefore, the government gave itself two years to develop a better model for public hospital operations. Many thought that the government took water over its head. But the government has also here kept what it has promised. From 1 January 2002, the State shall assume responsibility for the hospitals. The reform will improve the division of work between hospitals and thus increase treatment capacity. Priority will be given to measures to avoid unnecessary waiting for investigation and treatment. We want to make it easier to exercise the right to free choice of hospitals. A national waiting list register shall provide a better overview of individual hospitals’ available capacity. These measures shall reduce the waiting time to an absolute minimum. At the same time, the government proposes to grant more to the health sector than ever before. A total real growth of EUR 3.5 billion is proposed in 2002. The government will step up its efforts in the field of mental health protection and cancer care, in line with the action plans adopted by the Stortinget. Many elderly and disabled people spend a lot of time on drugs. This applies in particular to the chronically ill. We therefore propose that medicines on blue prescription should be free of charge for the disabled and for the elderly over 67 years of age. The scheme will apply from 1 October 2002. In addition, we propose comprehensive screening measures that will make healthcare cheaper for those with high disease costs. With the measures proposed in the 2002 budget, we have achieved a long way on the way to what was the intention of a so-called "self-interest" No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is providing a budget where we will continue to develop the care of the elderly. A few years ago, the lack of exclusive access to hospitals was the most central theme of Norwegian political debate. After the Jagland government presented the spring 1997 ageing plan, a significant increase has been made to strengthen care for the elderly in all parts of the country. Home services are extended, several have been given exclusive access to nursing homes, and nursing homes have been built with the care and care of good luck. The government will follow up the old-age plan with additional appropriations next year. The framework for grants for the construction of hospital and nursing homes is proposed to be extended. Ten 200 new housing units may be promised next year. Thus, at the end of the action plan, the construction of a total of 33 400 nursing homes and homes has been facilitated since 1997. The government is presenting a budget to ensure fairer distribution and promises of the most difficult. Most of us have experienced a significant development of wealth in recent years. But not everyone has been given a share in this development. We will strengthen the Community's efforts for the most disadvantaged. Over 70 pst. of the economically disadvantaged are unrelated to the labour market. There is a close link between financial problems and lack of work. That is why we must get the most into the labour market, and we must prevent people from moving out of the labour market. The measures for persons with reduced mobility are significantly increasing. Attempts are made to use wage subsidies to bring disability pensioners back to work. At the same time, ordinary labour market measures will focus on vulnerable groups in the labour market, in particular young people and immigrants. We want to increase the effort for the homeless in the big cities. We want to strengthen the housing allowance, so that there can be more rental homes built. We will also allow voluntary organisations to receive support both for operations and for investment in comprehensive housing for the homeless. This year, work is in progress to improve the living conditions of the homeless in the largest cities. Work will be stepped up in 2002. We're going to increase the boute poison barge in the housing system in the four largest cities. It is proposed that care should be strengthened. Both the prevention efforts and the efforts to help and treat drug users are proposed to be strengthened. In order to provide greater economic security, we are proposing to increase the child allowance for age and disability pensioners. Lone caregivers with disabled children are entitled to child care benefits at the same time as increased social assistance. We will establish a new social welfare scheme for young people who become seriously ill during education. Pension rules for long-term residents of institutions are made more favourable. The problems for the most disadvantaged are often complex and vary from person to person. That is why it needs an overall approach. The measures proposed by the Government in the budget are a follow-up to the economic and social protection action plan presented by the Government at the same time as the long-term programme in spring. It just has such an overall approach. Through the proposals made in the budget, the Government invites the Stortinget to cooperate in lifting the most difficult. There was a broad consensus on this in the election campaign, and we assume that there will also be a broad consensus on this when the real priorities are to be made. The Government provides a budget that will increase assistance and international involvement. The economic difference between rich and poor countries is increasing. Poverty is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Norway must take its share of responsibility. Three billion people in the world have to cope with less than $20 per cent. day(s) The UN has stated that HIV/AIDS can pose a threat to stability and security if the epidemic is not brought under control. Every minute, six children die because they don't get needed vaccines. We can't turn around and say this doesn't concern us. Therefore, the Government proposes a significant increase in development assistance. The share of assistance in gross national income increases to 0,90 pst. Appropriations for assistance will increase by a total of SEK 1.2 billion to next year. The goal is to escalate the assistance to 1 pst. of gross national income. The overall objective of Norwegian aid is to reduce poverty by improving economic, social and political conditions in the countries with which Norway is developing. Appropriations for health and education in poor countries will be increased. We will help to ensure the vaccination of the world’s children through the global vaccine initiative that Norway was taking part in. And we will contribute to the fight against tuberculosis, polio and HIV/AIDS. The government is providing a budget that will ensure a better environment, cleaner energy and safe food. Cure and foot-and-mouth disease in Europe are a reminder of the value of safe foods. Measures are already in place to ensure this, including: through systematic quality work and control at all stages of the food chain. The effort shall be continued and escalated up to the next year. At the same time, the appropriations for organic farming are being increased. We will strengthen efforts to ensure better access to our open air areas. This is particularly true of the beach zone, which is under heavy pressure. Children and young people shall be given greater opportunities for natural experiences. We want to strengthen cultural memory protection and the protection of biodiversity. Several accidents in recent years have shown that safety and preparedness at sea are not good enough. Measures to improve maritime safety are important, both in the interests of the environment and in the interests of the safety of those travelling by sea. We propose a significant strengthening of this work. In addition, it will be considered to extend the Norwegian territorial waters limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles. This will improve control of the routes to foreign ships. We want to step up the appropriations for public transport. A nationwide system of youth cards and student rebates is being introduced. Governments will increase funding for climate research, including research at CO2-free gas power plants and environmentally friendly energy sources. We want a greater share of our gas resources to be used in Norway and to increase the allocations for the development of natural gas infrastructure. So far, we've sold most of the gas raw to the continent. We sold the raw material. Other countries have created values through processing. As with the aim of further processing a larger proportion of the fish in Norway, the aim should also be to process a greater proportion of the gas in Norway. This is how we can create values, create jobs and at the same time create a better environment. The government last Friday appointed a public body to prepare such an environmentally friendly use of gas in Norway. We will provide a comprehensive report on the overall use of gas in Norway. The Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that the transformation of Norway from a poor society to a welfare society is about our having succeeded better than many other countries in combining two fundamental values: the value of creating and the value of sharing. The political debate often forgets that the welfare society depends on both. It's not just a question of producing more to get richer. Many countries have great wealth, but it doesn't mean that most people are good. On the other hand, it's not that we can take the welfare for granted, and it's just about distributing larger pieces of a cake that grow by itself. Let me take two examples of the last: many before me have pointed to the story of Spain that became rich in gold, leaned back into wealth, stopped creating new products, new art and new culture. It was the beginning of a long period of decline. Others have pointed to the experience of the Netherlands, which received large revenues from gas extraction in the 1960s. They spent their money on a massive expansion of the public sector. The costs increased, and industry and other competitive activities were severely weakened. History shows that it is not obvious that wealth on natural resources strengthens an economy. At the same time, it must be possible to maintain and strengthen the growth capacity of the rest of the economy. We are now at a crossroads in the transition from the industrial and oil age to the knowledge society. Oil production is at its highest. Norway will depend on new value creation to maintain and build on the welfare community. Rapid technological development, globalisation and increased international competition present major challenges for business in all countries. We must seize the opportunities offered by new technologies for future employment, growth and well-being. Knowledge, ideas and creativity will be our most important capital in the future. Therefore, education and research are crucial for further industrial development. The government is providing a budget for industrial development and active district policy. Enterprise policy should stimulate change and innovation. We are proposing increased appropriations for nutrient research. We propose increased appropriations for research and development contracts. And we are proposing tax deductions for R & D work in small and medium-sized enterprises. The instruments of the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund are proposed. SND provides greater flexibility to exploit the framework for grants, loans and guarantees itself. At the same time, the appropriations for various innovation and start-up measures will be increased. District policy should help to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and to ensure a level playing field in all parts of the country. We will continue to maintain a high level of ambition in rural policy, including: through regional business activities. We are increasing the efforts of the value-added programmes for Norwegian food production and for the use and processing of wood. A separate value creation programme for reindeer operations is established. Norway has rights to some of the world's largest and most productive coastal and marine areas. Good exploitation of these resources provides a basis for job creation, coastal settlement and development. The Norwegian aquaculture industry is an adventure – a result of research and progress and with an enormous potential for further development. This is an area where we can get a lot left for a national bet. The marine sector has also been designated as a priority research area. Appropriations for marine research — research in fisheries and aquaculture — will be increased by a total of 60 pst. in the Government's draft budget for next year. A well-developed infrastructure is important for industrial development and to ensure housing in all parts of the country. The appropriations for road and rail purposes are increased nominally by DKK 1.3 billion. The allocations for broadband expansion will be increased. More countries in Europe, including Sweden and Denmark have introduced tax reliefs and social contributions for their seafarers. We therefore propose that international shipping companies have equivalent framework conditions to those of similar shipping companies in the other Nordic countries. A new system for this purpose shall apply from 1 July 2002. There has been a lot of focus on fiscal policy in the last year. Taxes and charges are necessary to finance a good childcare provision, a good school and good health care. Therefore, the level of taxation must be seen in the context of the welfare offer offered. Community solutions are well developed in the Nordic region. Therefore, Nordic countries also have a higher level of taxation than the rest of Europe. The government provides a budget that provides lower taxes on work. We are probably using half of the increased budget space resulting from the new rule of action for budgetary policy to reduce taxes and taxes. Taxes paid will be reduced next year by approximately DKK 3.5 billion. The government’s proposal corresponds to a tax relief incurred in 2002 of DKK 7.7 billion. The peak tax rate is increasing from 289 000 in 2001 to 320 000 in 2002. No person who has average wages or salaries or lower shall pay any more... [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e244	Then we have to cancel the meeting and leave the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e258	Bad tongues wanted the president to take a break, but that's not true! Everything about everything was now at least a good exercise. I give the floor to the Councillor Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – he does not have to start all over again!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e263	The natural thing for the whole thing would have been to start over, but I don't think I should do it either! Otherwise, there has probably not been a break during the financial speech since Brofoss" famous speech. We'll hope it'll be a long time until the next break! – The peak tax indent is increased from 289 000 kroner in 2001 to 320 000 kroner in 2002. No one who has average wages or salaries or lower shall pay top taxes any more. The government also proposes to increase the minimum deduction. The proposals imply that almost 200,000 taxpayers are reduced in the so-called overtime tax. Those with less than NOK 320 000 in income will subsequently pay a maximum overtime tax of less than 36 p.m. Those who have the most must also contribute most to the community. The tax on dividends on shares is therefore proposed to be continued. In the 2000 budget agreement, the Centre Parties, the Right and the Advance Party adopted a separate tax increase for trade unions. The government is proposing to change this. The deduction for the union quota and the deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations is doubled, from NOK 900 to NOK 1800. The electricity charge was proposed to be reduced by one cent per cent. kWh from 2 July this year. From July 1st next year, we'll put the fee down with one more ear. The changes adopted in the depreciation rates for investments in the course of the last year’s budgetary procedure led in some cases to lower rates than the actual impairment on capital. The government believes that the rates should be in line with the actual depreciation, and therefore proposes to increase the depreciation rates corresponding to a tax relief for business of DKK 1.5 billion. The business community also enjoys the fact that we eliminate about 500 customs duties on industrial products. The decision to remove the investment tax from 1 April 2002 will result in an income loss of approximately DKK3.5 billion on the 2002 budget and DKK6 billion on an annual basis. The investment tax has unfortunate aspects with many complex exemptions. The levy has been further eroded by exempting activities subject to VAT from the investment levy from 1 July of this year. The government therefore considers it important that the investment levy be abolished in 2002. The government believes that tax relief on work must now be given priority. With a total tax relief of DKK 3.5 billion, the Government considers that such a substantial relief for business as the removal of the investment tax represents must be implemented over a slightly longer period or be partly financed by tax incentives in other areas. The Government, after an overall assessment, recommended that the date of the closure of the investment levy be postponed by half a year until 1 October 2002. This budget is based on human freedom, not against the welfare society, but through the welfare society. Freedom means being able to use their capabilities and facilities, develop and contribute. But this freedom is only real if everyone has the opportunity to achieve it. This is why freedom is being built together: by giving everyone equal rights to education, equal rights to basic health services, a good housing, a safe old age – a society in which everyone is guaranteed the basic goods of well-being, and where the common good is built through solidarity where the one who has the most must also contribute the most. This is what has made Norway what the United Nations calls the world's best welfare society. This draft budget shows the Labour Party's policy, as we presented it in the election campaign, and as we will follow it up throughout this entire parliamentary term. All promises made in the «securities» of the voters to whom the Workers' Party was elected are included in the budget. We can do that because we promise nothing more than what we can do, and because we have made clear priorities – kindergartens, school and health first. The government believes that the draft budget is well adapted to the challenges for the Norwegian economy. The draft budget follows the policy of action to use the expected yield of the oil fund. We have placed great emphasis on phasing in oil revenues in a way that does not have too strong an impact on domestic demand. The market expects a moderate decline in interest rates over the next year. Using more oil revenue than the Government proposes, there is a risk that interest rates will be higher than this. The Norwegian economy is strong. The value creation is high. The welfare level is high. Unemployment is low. This isn't random. That is the result of a successful economic policy. Terrorism in the United States on 11 September has increased uncertainty about economic developments. It underlines the need to pursue responsible economic policies. The government's draft budget ensures the basis for continued good economic development. The government invites the Stortinget to cooperate on a budget that increases the well-being and further development of the common good!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-11.ana.ud1049e301	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2002 government and national budget be discussed at a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
