ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e24	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 25 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party 15 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and the Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e35	The two proposals under consideration are a document No. 8-proposals, promoted by the Right, and a proposal that was promoted in connection with the throne debate last year's harvest by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left. A broad majority of the municipal committee is united on the policy in the position, which is very pleasant and important on such a comprehensive issue as what we are dealing with today. It is important to note that the broad majority of the Committee does not reject the proposals for increased labour migration in the future. However, there is a broad consensus that the issue of whether or not to increase labour migration should not be seen in isolation from employment policy, but should be included as a natural component in an employment policy context. Some people seem to think that people can only be ordered and used if necessary, and then sent out again. Of course it's not like that. Educated people are shortages throughout the Western world, and if we are to compete for this labour force, we must offer housing, culture, cultural diversity and not least a tolerant society. Moreover, in Norway, we must not adopt a policy that contributes to what is simply called brain drain from the Third World. Third-world countries depend more than us on a educated population to create development. We should therefore have a balanced policy and primarily use our own domestic labour force. The labour reserve in Norway is small, and we need to seriously assess labour immigration as one of several tools to increase access to labour. However, it is important to focus on the actual labour demand in the future. We need to know what the real need is, and make the best possible use of the working capacity of all who can and will. Public welfare schemes have been developed at a high pace in recent years, leading to strong growth in public sector labour demand. Projections made in the context of the Government’s long-term programme today show that, in the decades to come, there will also be a need to increase the number of employees in the public sector, among others. to provide good services in the care of the elderly, cancer care and psychiatry. We know that in many industries it is and it is most likely that there will still be a shortage of labour. This is unfortunate both for the individual enterprise and sector and for the Norwegian economy in general. It may also be a problem for those in Norway who are unemployed, if for example. the lack of key personnel with special competence creates bottlenecks which prevent businesses from creating other jobs which do not require the type of qualifications initially required. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need to pay great attention to policies that help to maximise the use of domestic labour resources. To make full use of the labour reserve, we need to pursue a policy that motivates work rather than passively receiving social security. It is a paradox that there are many thousands of unemployed people in Norway today, and that unemployment is up to three times higher among non-Western immigrants. At the same time, we also need to reduce sick leave without weakening the rights of workers in the sick pay system. It is important that we stimulate each one to work what they are capable of, and then it must also be economically profitable for the individual. We need to be creative and bring up all possible tools to make full use of the labour potential. The majority of the Committee is of the clear opinion that labour immigration must be seen as a complement to the exploitation of domestic labour resources, where the need is linked to certain sectors and occupations where there is actually a shortage of labour. In this way, labour immigration does not become our main instrument in future employment policies. I am pleased with this, especially considering all those who today are applying for a job without even having to come to the interview – often because they have a non-Western surname, not because they are underqualified. For the majority of the Committee, it is essential that new measures should not affect those with a reduced working capacity today, even those who are currently totally or partially unemployed. Any new measures need to be developed in such a way that they do not undermine the general conditions of employment and pay we have in Norway today. The fact that some employers state publicly that labour immigration could affect pay levels is an unusually strong signal that we have to observe so-called social dumping here. It is therefore necessary to establish clear conditions against the recruitment of labour from abroad in order to best pursue national social policy objectives. The majority note that we have not achieved our objectives in integration policy and that it is not automatic in opening up borders at the same time as providing more open business opportunities. We heard strong descriptions of this at the open hearing: Immigrants with academic background and valuable work experience who wrote hundreds of job applications without even being contacted by employers. We do not want that in Norway today, and it is gratifying that more researchers have recently focused on this problem, and that the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination are strongly involved in the public debate that is taking place. The majority do not wish to deal with the proposal for a reversal of the labour immigration legislation. A change to the legislation at this point will change the principles of Norwegian immigration policy, and the majority therefore consider it unfortunate to change the principles of controlled and regulated immigration, without having first assessed its consequences. In other words, the majority will only be able to assess the impact before we take a final view on the realities of the proposal. The majority believe that there is a need for further decoration of the rule that work permits must have been applied for and granted before entering Norway. This is underlined by a majority who point out that the Council of State has warned that she will follow this up. However, it should be a prerequisite that those applying for a work permit from Norway are legally present here and that asylum seekers are exempted from that right. A broad majority consider that there is a need to look at the legislation in relation to foreign students. The Student Permit Scheme is based on support and cultural exchanges. However, the majority consider that foreign law is not a suitable instrument to ensure the desired aid effect of study stays in Norway and considers that the so-called quarantine provision in the Foreign Affairs Act of five years needs to be lifted. As regards the Right's proposal that the employer should be able to grant a work permit, the majority rejects this. The majority emphasise that the authorities must continue to have control over who is authorised to stay and work in the country. However, it is clarified that a certain decoration is desirable, taking into account greater flexibility. For example, the employer may apply for a work permit on behalf of the employee under certain conditions, but may not grant the work permit itself. In this case, it is a prerequisite that trade unions at the workplace are involved in the process leading to the type of application. Finally, I would recommend the setting as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e73	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e76	The four proposals included in document No. The 8 proposal we are discussing today is somewhat different in nature, and the Committee has, in practice, joined two of them. But what I have problems with in this debate is simply to take the substance of part of what the rapporteur says. In fact, in the form of a press conference on 21 March, the Council of State, Brustad and Kosmo, as far as I understood, concluded on the proposals made by a sample of State Secretary Meland, which included: the two proposals agreed by the majority, namely that Norway should be applied for and that the five-year quarantine rule should be abolished, as well as some other simplification measures related thereto. But then the case rapporteur says that we do not want to assess our main proposal without having assessed the consequences of it. But the problem is that neither the case rapporteur nor the other members of the parties that make up the majority are asking the Government to investigate the consequences of that proposal. If you had asked for an assessment of the consequences, then to make a decision of reality, what the rapporteur said would have been linked, because I understand that the department has not been given today any mandate or mandate from the Storting to do this work that you are then waiting for from a majority. And there's two pieces in this. One is the question: what kind of rules should you have to come to Norway, how open should it be? The second question is, which disciplines or who will be allowed to come? And so it is in Norway that there is an alarming need not only for skilled labour but also for unskilled labour. My question to the President-in-Office of the Council is this: does the rapporteur think that unskilled workers must also be allowed to be included in the rules to come? Without it, the needs of the future will not be addressed, as the open consultation showed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e87	It is probably right of me to admit at the outset that I am not taking the goal of solving all the Right problems related to labour immigration. What has been my starting point and the starting point of the Workers' Party and the majority during the Committee's proceedings has been that during the spring the Government will come back to the Stortinget with a case that embraces labour immigration. There are many ways in which part of the budgetary agreement was concluded last autumn, and there are different limits to the extent to which the proposals are actually to be implemented. Therefore, some proposals have gone a little further and left other proposals more or less in place. But my starting point is that I don't want to, and I don't take the goal of doing it – to solve all the problems related to labour immigration without the government having done a thorough job in advance and presenting this as a matter for the Stortinget. Then we will have a better starting point to see all the possible consequences of changes in the policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e92	It is correct, as the rapporteur says, that there has been work to get as broad a majority as possible in this matter, and the rapporteur-in-Office will have the honour to do so. Labour immigration is one instrument among many others in employment policy in the future. Some of the reasons for the work that has been done are probably also due to the fact that a note has been produced from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party from the Budget-Inst. S. No 5, where Christian People's Party and the Center Party among others were occupied by older workers and are largely excluded. They have difficulty getting back into the labour market despite having full work capacity, yes, we have the paradox that in this country we pay people out of the labour market to a large extent. One of the people we heard, Professor Steinar Stroem, went through the AFP system and was concerned that just older workers who we couldn't get into the labour market were a very large workforce reserve. My question to the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party is therefore: Are you willing to look at some of the proposals that Professor Stroem has put forward, in order to adapt the AFP scheme more to the labour situation we have in the country today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e103	I think that all the parties must have as a starting point that we will turn every stone to get as much back to work as possible. It is probably right that the representative, Mr Østberg, had to say that too many people who really want to contribute to their working capacity and to extend the time of working people are being pushed out of the labour market. We recognise that the AFP is an element that also needs to be assessed in order to make it as much as possible to stay longer as active. But it's probably also that the actual retirement age is significantly lower than the AFP age, so I don't think you can solve the problems just pointed out by the representative of Østberg, just making changes under the AFP scheme. My starting point is that there are too many people who are out of work, who want to contribute to their working capacity, but who for various reasons are being excluded, or are not reaching out to work, and we have to try to help fix that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e112	The Labour Party is currently pursuing a deliberate policy of transferring labour from value-creating private sector to sheltered public enterprises, although there is a shortage of workers in Norwegian enterprises today. The introduction of competition into all public service activities would likely be more effective to the extent that it would reduce the need for increasing public sector labour. How long should it actually take before the Workers' Party realises that competition is healthy and works more effectively also in the public sector, that it can dampen the need for ever more labour to be transferred to the public sector, thereby avoiding the shortage of workers for Norwegian enterprises, as it has become today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e119	It is a little difficult to deal with this, because the need for public sector workers is based on the arrangements and reforms adopted by the Storting. The reform of the elderly and the reform of cancer and psychiatry help to increase the demand for labour. The reforms adopted have broad support in this House, but it is clear that when we adopt such reforms, we must at the same time be aware that highly trained personnel are often required for the sectors covered by the reforms. Labour demand is probably as high in the public sector as in the private sector. It is not that we have surplus labour in the public sector and a shortage of labour in the private sector. Where we have a shortage of labour, there is a special type of work that requires special competence. It is the device of labour immigration policy that we must seek to put in place: a workplace lacking a particular type of labour must not be prevented from acquiring that labour force. That's what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e128	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e132	If you take a trip from a company to a company along our coast, a Swede, a meeting finder, a meeting from Sri Lanka or from anywhere. Is one in the north, meets a people from Russia. Our business is completely dependent on this labour force. We have also had large immigration per year. years to keep the wheels running. In an ECON investigation, seven out of ten company managers said that the biggest danger that their company would have to put the hook on the door in the long term was lack of professionals. In 2000 Norwegian enterprises lack 35 000 employees. Where do we get them? There's a lot of answers, and we actually need all the answers so that the wheels should go around in the future as well. Of course, we need to make the best use of domestic labour resources. It's not happening today. We can no longer afford to close out groups from the labour market. Professional homes must have access to the labour market by facilitating their use of their skills for the benefit of business and society. Immigrants have to pass their skills without delay, so that they can get to work. The unemployment rate among non-Western immigrants is up to three times higher than in society. So here's a good part to pick up. Then we need more flexibility between social security, retirement and work. That society limits one's ability to work if one as a pensioner can, is reasonablely unwise and, in fact, incomprehensible. A positive thing about the labour market now having problems getting people is that older workers — over 50 years old — can become attractive with their experience and with their freedom. It's about time. Students need to be paid more in addition to loans in the Loan Fund, even if the time spent in the study can be reduced. Last, but not least, we need to open up labour immigration. What I have said is not complete, but we hope that it is sufficient for the Norwegian business community to expand and develop. But it's not easy. For where should these foreign workers come from? Our neighbouring country, Europe as a whole, has the same problem as us. The birth rate is too low. We have 1.8. The reproduction is 2,1. That means that there is a deficiency of about 10 000 people per year. years. Most countries have a lower birth rate than Norway, and concerns have been issued, both by the Swedish Prime Minister for approximately half of them. a month ago and from Putin, Russia, last week. Some countries have a divorce worse than us. In Italy, there are disaster reports. They have a birth rate of 0.9 and reduce the population from 60 to 20 million in 100 years. Is it that important to keep the population up? Some people thought — and they may even be right — that there are more than enough Europeans. But it has some consequences if we reduce the population too quickly. One consequence is that we lack labour and that there will be young people carrying pensions and productivity when the small children are going to carry the big ones. Eldrebølga is called, and she comes with a heavy weight about approx. 10 years from now. It will increase its public demand for labour. This, in turn, means that the competitive sector is losing in the fight for labour, thereby jeopardising the economic growth we need in mainland Norway. In addition to threatening the welfare state, a declining population will be able to beat the bones away from the districts. It is not surprising that the world of its leaders is concerned about business, the consequences of the wave of old age, for well-being, for care and for the pattern of settlement. In the long term, there is only one thing that helps, and there are family-policy arrangements that make more families choose children. That means birth permits, that means paper commissions, that means cash money, part time, babysitting osb. I'm really glad that the plurality of the committee says that. In the short term, we have to simplify the rules that prevent people who want to go to Norway to work from coming here. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the Right's proposal No. II and III, which also the Council of State does. In addition, the Christian People's Party would like to stress that we expect the Council of State to take seriously that very many businesses in aquaculture, within tourism, and perhaps even before IT need workers who do not have expert qualifications, but who are not raising them here at home. It is also possible for the Council of State to come back to the Stortinge with a case of labour immigration, and it is one of the foundations of the Christian People's Party's holding of the plural solutions that we have been on. It is good that the majority now wants labour immigration. For example, India has birth surplus. We have to do what we can to make some of these choose Norway as their own country. Of course, they don't. I've been to Silicon Valley and San Francisco. Obviously, it's not far from India and China to California. And Austen's people are warmly welcome to build the success companies there, and English is actually more widespread than Norwegian. We need to harness ourselves to get the 10,000 people who are Norwegian business according to the Central Bureau of Statistics need every year only to maintain the same labour force and population level. That is why we need a softening of the rules on labour immigration, and I am pleased with the measures actually announced by the Government. Labour shortages will be the main capacity constraint in the Norwegian economy in the future. Then there is a problem that I have to mention: the Christian People's Party is agreed that the institution of asylum is valuable and must not interfere with or disappear in labour immigration, which takes place on completely different premises. However, one should still be able to use sound judgement in order to soften the rules on labour immigration. It's pretty'molbolig' – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but it's still – to send out a work that the company and community might ask for, which can be Norwegian, which is the key person in the company, who has a network and who wants to live in Norway. Such a person may receive a negative response to his asylum application, while we use great resources to ‘headhunta’ his neighbour in his home country. It will hardly be understood. Governments have a unique ability to clear up queues. Finally, I would like to mention that when the Bondevik government two years ago presented the Enterprise Communication, labour immigration was pointing to as necessary and forward-looking. No one except the center accepted it that time. I'm glad that there's a development in Stortinget too.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e181	We want the world's best welfare society. We need labour to do that. We need to mobilise the labour reserve we have in the country, and we need to ensure that we have good tools to get the unemployed out of work. Another instrument is labour immigration. In the open consultation we had, we were presented with visions and tools to get the labour force of the sectors that need it the most. As the rapporteur pointed out, the consultation provided us with a broad platform for further work on these challenges. There are difficult questions that have multiple sides. And in terms of what Apelthun Säle says about having a refugee and asylum policy based on whether you have work or not, at least we from the Workers' Party will distance ourselves from it. The birth rates are very concerned with the representative, and it was with shock and amazement that the committee witnessed the Christian People's Party's focus on the matter when the representative Apelthun Seele used the opportunity to ask about the importance of the abortion law for the lack of labour. And the logic was clear: if we had not had self-determined abortions in Norway, we would have had more labour in the years to come – especially if women had born boys, because they have a different work pattern. My question becomes concrete: When the Christian People's Party introduced the cash support, was it meant to pay to young children's mothers not to participate in the professional life and indirectly to say that they were going to give birth to more children? So the abortion and the cash support become, in some cases, almost a birth obligation. Is that Christian People's Party's policy? For the Workers' Party, it is a policy that has expired many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e194	There was a lot at the same time from Aud Gaundal. The Christian People's Party has never – nor have I – said that refugee and asylum policy should be related to having a job. On the contrary. The institution of asylum must pass. If you come here to get protection, a few protective measures must be taken. But that doesn't mean that a person can't get a job, and that doesn't mean that a person can't use healthy judgement in individual matters – but it has to be a beauty! Thus, we have not lifted the cork of the asylum institution or the principle of giving leave of residence on a humanitarian basis. So to the listener. I would like to make it very clear that the good child was not mentioned in the earring. I'm not in charge of the headlines that are made, with reference to my name. But it understands everyone who's been out of the media, if they want – I understand even when they don't want to understand that. That being said, I would like to make it clear that we have a birth rate of 1.8 and in order to achieve the reproduction rate we need to have 2.1. Then there are some children missing. It's a mathematical, statistical context here. It's not going directly to abortion. But at the same time, we know that women in this country want more children than they actually do, and that's why the Christian People's Party is busy having a family policy that allows families to choose the children as a will. I hope we get family policy arrangements that actually make women well the children, because that's what we need in the future. Then we need kindergartens, of which the Workers' Party is busy, but we also need cash support to create justice and freedom of choice for the women, the families and the men who want a different solution to the A4 society that the Workers' Party is continuously offering us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e205	In its statement, the representative Apelthun Seele has translated all the domestic stones that the entire Committee turns around to try to mobilise Norwegian domestic labour, whether it is employability in combination with social security, whether it is willing to work in combination with pensions, whether there is high unemployment among immigrants in general, etc. This is most of the time to focus. But the Storting would have grossly neglected its possibilities if this were the answer to the sketched need, which also Apelthun Seele drew forth in his post. The farming industry and the tourism industry are mentioned, and everyone agrees that there is a need here, although the farming industry has been hit on the South coast lately. Family policy and birth rates will hardly be able to solve this within a reasonable period of time. Neither in the current period nor in the next period will this be the answer. So, as we hear, the Christian People's Party so far is delivering all the premises that are needed to support the two other proposals of the Right. The question to the representative is: is it the budgetary agreement that is the reason why we do not get the natural conclusion after all these premises, which is reasonably consistent with the Right's argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e214	I am very pleased that the representative Hoddevik underlines the things that need to be done to mobilise domestic labour, because we are totally dependent on it. I have to say that even if I want to be in favour of labour immigration, I doubt that it can become so large and so strong and so overwhelming that, in any case, it will meet all the need. That is why we depend on all ways of mobilising Norwegian, domestic labour. Why do we not conclude by supporting all four proposals from the Right? I thought the Right should be satisfied. They have received quite a welcome response to their proposals, and they have also been told that the Government will come back with a case of labour immigration. The last words have hardly been said in this matter. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we have underlined that the companies that do not fall within the scope of what was presented at the press conference, and what the Government has done in this area, must also be taken care of when the Government returns with regard to labour immigration. I actually believe that when the government has thought a little bit about it, it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e221	I note that the Christian People's Party believes that increasing labour migration should reduce the problems of immigrants in the labour market and that it should get more of this category into work. To this extent, it may well be that increased labour migration can work in the opposite direction, by allowing new and more migrant workers to crowd out those who already have difficulties entering the labour market. Although perhaps with some great goodwill one can understand some of the logic of the Christian People's Party, in my view the Christian People's Party should be given the opportunity to explain something more specifically about this somewhat contradictory view, for what they actually mean by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e226	It should be a pleasure, because it seems to me that the Progress Party has not fully understood the dimensions of the problems we are dealing with, how many are missing in Norwegian working life, and how much business needs it has. The Christian People's Party thinks, and as I think is an obvious consequence of labour immigration, is that if we get workers who are «headhunta» out, who are qualified, and who are brought into key jobs in the companies, but who, like the others who come from other countries to Norway, have a little problem with our language, it's quite difficult with Norwegian, and don't know our culture so well, it's also reasonable special, most people, and not least business leaders, will realize that they can still do a good job. Then it won't be that dangerous with a difficult name, with a bit of limping Norwegian or with a lack of cultural understanding. If people are working in Norway, all three things will correct themselves as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e236	Last autumn, when the government presented its proposal for a government budget, the main point and arrangement in the budget was to increase taxes on working life and business to shift labour from the private sector to the public sector because the lack of labour was one of the main problems, or the so-called barrier in the Norwegian economy, as it is called in the social economy. So it was an underlying source of economic policy that the government offered, a policy that we disagreed with, but we recognise the problem, namely that the lack of labour will be one of our fundamental problems in the years to come, and in order to solve it, we need to implement a number of instruments. It promoted a package on the right before the budget came, a package of a number of measures, such as: In Norway, both Norwegian and non-Norwegian labour force, i.e. immigrants, were mobilising more of the labour force, but also had as an important element to make it easier for more people to come from other countries to work in Norway. In the open hearing we had, there were a number of figures and a number of statements, but some of the most interesting thing I thought was the SSB's analysis at the beginning of the hearing, which shows that we need an access of 10,000 people in the workforce every year to maintain the workforce as it is today – 10,000 more. At the same time, we know that reforms and ‘tours’ in the public sector will eat all new labour supply in the years to come, if nothing is done. That means that we're in a mess where we both have a big oil sector, we have a growing public sector, and we need to take care of the sprouts and developments in the Norwegian mainland economy and make sure that we have something that could give us the same degree of export income to live off in this country when the oil age is over. If it is the case that the biggest deficit and the biggest problem in the Norwegian economy in the future is the lack of labour, I really think that more should be done by the Government – and faster – than what I see today. I think in many ways the government has a very backward attitude towards what is then the main problem. It seems that operating old, traditional, 1970s short-term policies is going to solve the problems. This means that the competitive sector will be squandered in the future for the labour it needs to develop further. The right has said that there is a need for a different kind of policy in this area. If there is a supply problem, action needs to be taken to increase the supply, and we need to put in place a lot of measures. One of the measures is that contained in Document No. The 8 proposal we are discussing today, and there is no disagreement in the committee that labour immigration will always be a supplement. Immigration is not going to be a major source of new labour, but it is going to be an important complement both in terms of skilled and unqualified labour. One of the biggest problems with the attitude that I experience from perhaps special working party teams is the fear of letting in more people who are unskilled. All the sources we have show that one of the problems with several of the Norwegians who are out of work and are going into work is that the areas where we now see that there is a shortage of unskilled workers are where some of the heaviest jobs are. It is in coastal fisheries – the part of mainland Norway of fisheries, and it is in the tourism industry, where it is heavy, difficult lifting. That's not the place that a re-schooler older people do to go in. That's not where they're going to come, because many of these jobs are physically tougher. If one looks at the map of Social Security Norway, one will see that many of the places where there is a shortage of labour have a lot of unqualified people. Why? Because the kind of jobs that people can do for so long are not jobs. Nevertheless, it is what the Social and Business Research Foundation has considered to be the largest growth industry if we are able to use the potential in the future, namely fisheries, aquaculture, and further processing based on it. So what's the right one going to suggest? We propose from two points of view in this document. We suggest that we be more open, and we suggest, not least, that we be simpler. I want to describe a process that I've known for a period of time, an example of what the situation actually is today when it comes to catching up with the workforce. A farmer who was so lucky to have got hold of someone to help him on the farm had 13 points in the processing chain. First he had to make an offer for work, which was to be sent to the employee in Poland. The employee then had to meet at the Norwegian Embassy, send an application to the UDI. UDI was to send an application to the foreign police in Sarpsborg, the foreign police sent the application to the local loner's office, the local loner's office called the employer for questioning, the case was sent to Sarpsborg Police Chamber, Sarpsborg Police Chamber sent the application to Aetat in Askim, Aetat in Askim sent the application to the county labour office in Moss, the county labour office in Moss sent the application to UDI, UDI dealt with the case, and UDI sent the result to the Norwegian embassy in Poland. There the matter should have been stopped. Unfortunately, the matter was sent to the wrong embassy first, but finally the embassy sent the decision to the jobseeker, and the jobseeker had to meet at the embassy and get the stamped work permit. This applies to seasonal agricultural work. The case took nine months. This is not what a flexible Norway really is about. What's the way the right has suggested? We've suggested doing something that makes this drastically easier. I'm glad that we've been awarded, not on our proposal, but to make this drastically easier. So we've suggested doing something with some of the most unfair rules in our opinion. If you happen to want to see what Norway looks like, see if Norwegian is a language you can live with, and of some particular interest you should find out that you will be in Norway a while before you apply for a work permit, the problem is that you have to return to your home country to apply for a work permit. We've proposed that we change that, and we've got a majority for that. Then we have proposed removing the five-year quarantine rule, which today means that a lot of people we had hoped would go back to a developing country to do the job, actually ends up in Canada and the United States, which of course is very happy that we're training and paying well-qualified labour. I am also pleased that we are getting an impact on changing. What I'm not happy about is that we don't seem to have come any further than this when it comes to the question of opening up more to Norway, especially for unskilled people. Although I am happy that we have done something – at least it seems that it is gradually becoming a much simpler way to get to Norway – I have to say that I believe that the scheme that the Government put forward last week, and which, according to Kosmos' own estimates, is estimated to give between 1,500 and 2,000 more foreigners to Norway, means too little compared to the need. I remind you that we need an increase of 10,000 to maintain our workforce – according to former labour director Hanisch, we actually needed 40,000 more a year. The last number is clearly too high, and I think it's the potential to release somewhere else. But between 1,500 and 2,000 is too small. In addition, there is no meeting the needs of important parts of Norwegian business that are currently screaming for labour. Then there is someone in this room who is constantly talking about something I have only heard today – that there is going to be a separate case of labour immigration, and there you have to go through the consequences of the proposals you have rejected. The rapporteur has said what the representative of the Christian People's Party has said, but what is stated in the remarks at this point in the vote is that these issues should be discussed in the context of the long-term programme. The long-term programme was presented today and contains almost two columns on it. It does not contain a single word on the assessment of that e.g. more people should be able to come to Norway in addition to what is known in the letter that comes. It kind of looks like there's politics all the way, because there's a majority that admits there's a need, but they don't dare take the step out and tell them how to do it. And I'm disappointed about the center games. I am also disappointed with the SV, who has given clear signals in the past that they want a greater degree of work immigration, but they are therefore not willing to take the step out here and now to get this done. They have also not given any investigative mandate or mandate to the Government to make a specific case about this. As far as I know, the only thing that has been reported by the Government is that at some point in time there will be an odelsting proposal with law changes to implement the changes that were introduced last week. Finally, on behalf of the Right, I will be allowed to address the two proposals included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e255	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e261	I would like to distance myself from Erna Solberg's claim that the government is too late to allow for increased labour migration. It is probably a fact that not so much has been done in such a short time before facilitating increased labour migration, both with significant regulatory improvements and significant simplifications. But right and Erna Solberg are always on the employer team. On the right, there will be an increase in labour immigration. So will the NHO. I'm not going to say that it's exactly pretty, white, Nordic men they want, but it's a free labour market in the Nordic region, and the Right wants to have the least obstacles for employers to import labour. In the view of the Labour Party, the lack of labour must be addressed in several ways, including: by reducing sick leave. It's actually 200,000 who are away from work every day, that is. 10 pst. by the labour force. Many of the 70,000 unemployed can be transferred to work, many of the disabled want to work, and better arrangements in the combination of work and social security need to be further developed. And not least we have a large group of immigrants where the unemployment rate is three times that of other groups. Many of the immigrants are highly skilled workers, many of them have applied for over 500 jobs without even attending an interview, and many speak Norwegian perfectly – and as I said, those who are being imported do not. How can the Right defend that employers show such bad attitudes in their employment policy? And why is it that the right is not more concerned with employers when it comes to using the labour that immigrants represent?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e272	Some of the contents of the line from Berit Brørby I think I will take as rhetoric, among other things. This is that we are always on the employers' team, and also a lot of other things. My reason for saying that the Labour Party is late is this: despite the fact that the main problem in the Norwegian economy is the shortage of labour in the future, we have not been presented with any specific measures since the budget was presented, until the presentation now, which is on labour immigration, which helps to mobilise more labour. If we go back to the open hearing that we had, the researchers actually said that the system you should first do was the AFP system, because it was the fastest thing to do to mobilise more labour. But it is a scheme that the Workers' Party has held its hand over, and that they have not been willing to do anything about. We want the least obstacles for employers," says Brørby. No, it's not like that. The solution we have is actually different than the solution of the NHO. The left has held a press conference on a proposal that is very similar to the NHOs. We have said that employers should take responsibility for the employee by providing him with a dwelling. The search for labour must have been carried out in Norway and in the EEA region, and this must be documented. What we want is that, at work permits, you don't have to get into the grinder in the UDI, which our committee knows pretty well, and knows is a problem. This will give you a much faster and easier system. We have also said that there should be normal working and employment procedures, and there should be a right of residence in the form that you should be able to take your family with you. This makes it somewhat different from what some employers might think of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e283	In my view, the Right's proposal is a solid exaggeration, where the Right sees itself blind to the needs of the NHO and industry for labour. At the same time, the social consequences of this can be overlooked in terms of increased immigration into Norway. Don't think Right that knows, for example. a cyclical downturn with a subsequent increase in unemployment will be primarily all the unskilled, new immigrants who will be hit and first leave? An excessive proportion of today's immigrants are already outside the ordinary working life. Isn't it better to get these included in the working life before taking such a strong initiative to take more immigrants into the labour market, as right here has done? And besides, in her article, Erna Solberg said that there was a need to bring in 10,000 work immigrants per year. years. Will this be in addition to all asylum seekers and refugees – with subsequent family reunification – who otherwise flow to Norwegian society each year? Is that really all this Right really going to do in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e292	Let me first say what I was not told in the previous answer, namely that it is actually that the Right has repeatedly addressed the problems of discrimination on the part of employers, their lack of wanting to use the resources of those who are already here. Jan Petersen had this as his main point in a national meeting speech three years ago. If you read today's Evening Post Evening, you will see that City Councillor Erling Lae has invited you to a new policy in Oslo, among other things. all immigrants who are applying for and qualified to be admitted to an interview, and you should scan in a completely different way that there is no discrimination which is clearly seen in some places. Sometimes it's conscious, and sometimes it's unconscious. Then to the Progress Party. First of all, I haven't said that we're going to take 10,000 immigrants per. years. The right has never suggested any quota, because we think it's a bad proposal. But we've said that we need 10,000, and that's the central statistical agency's calculations. An increase of 10,000 is needed in Norway every year. Of course, it can be solved with a high number of refugees and asylum seekers. There we primarily want treatment to be so effective that it is those who really need protection that will be. We're going to assume that with our arrangement, maybe a few fewer people would have stayed in Norway, simply because some people today are allowed to stay for humanitarian reasons because treatment takes so long. So to the question of who gets unemployed first. First of all, if there is a major shortage of labour or a major economic change in the years to come, it can either be because we haven't got enough labour, because we want to lose some jobs, or because companies want to move elsewhere because they don't get a job. That means it could go the other way. We can create periods of decline in Norway by not resolving the need for labour supply. I'm sure some immigrants will be marginal, but the point is that if you first get into work, you also learn better Norwegian, and you learn to work better in the workplace. We see that those immigrants who really have long-term problems are those who never got the chance. Our model is that you should have a job to get here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e301	A law change has been reported from the Government in this field. The starting point for the Christian People's Party is, of course, that one gets a review of the changes proposed. We also have that written in the setting, without the government party having protested. When we dealt with the business message, there was no right view of a softening of the immigration rules. Now a door opens far up, and the Christian People's Party agrees with Right that we need to soften and simplify the rules. But it's certainly not negative that the government is bringing a case about this. Everything does not need to be instructed. The center is just coming from the government offices, and we've been thinking back there. So it might have something to do with different behavior. It must be borne in mind, on the right, that although the Storing has had the lead in this matter, the Government has actually come up with separate proposals, and in two and a half years, the Labour Party has turned 90 degrees and Right 180 degrees. The debate on demography has been going on in Europe for at least five years. Why didn't the Right problems two years ago, and why is it so urgent now to instruct the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e313	There's obviously a difference in the perception of what's in the setting, between what I'm reading, and what the representative Anita Apelthun Sell actually reads out of this setting. What is in the setting is: ‘The majority are also aware that issues related to labour migration will be addressed in the Government’s long-term programme presented in spring 2001. The majority will return to these issues in the examination of that document.’ It also states that there will be new regulatory provisions and that there is a need to propose a legislative change. That is what the Government is going to follow up, and those proposals have already been made. It's obvious that the center parts have wanted something more, and I'm just happy if there's anything more coming. For God's sake, we would like to have a thorough discussion of the consequences of these proposals, but our starting point is that at the Stortinget we can lay down policy rules or give a mandate to the Government. We don't have to sit passive and wait. The reason why we propose it now is that we have proposed open labour immigration earlier in dealing with a case that was promoted – I don't remember which party, but either Left or SV. Then we promoted a proposal that was not as detailed as what is available here, but that was the main essence of this. We have worked on this further in the document that the Committee has been discussing for six months. Our need to stress the matter is serious in the matter. This is serious about the shortage of labour. If the need for labour in Norway is so important that a government can promote a proposal to increase the employer’s tax at the level of the government’s budget in the autumn through a so-called cyclical tax, which would take in SEK 7 billion when moving from competitive industries to the public sector, it must be serious for others as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e325	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e328	Let me first, so I won't forget, bring up proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, which is included in the setting. Then I will be allowed to say that I agree with Berit Brørby from the Workers' Party that it is fantastic how one-sided the Right is in this matter, they see it solely in the interests of the employers. What I think would be a little more honest when you paint a certain on the wall and say that the lack of labour is the biggest problem in Norwegian society, was to add that you think there is a shortage of cheap labour. There is a shortage of cheap labour. In some areas of some enterprises, of course, there is a certain scarcity of specialists in some subject. But otherwise there are many who believe that there is actually a shortage of cheap labour, because in a market economy and in a free labour market it is actually possible for businesses, if they really have an acute shortage of labour and a very profitable enterprise, to raise wages. They can offer other benefits in order to attract labour. It seems that the Right has completely forgotten that a labour market is a market in which access is determined by supply and demand by allowing the price to be regulated. So I want to make the relatively clear claim that there is also NHO and very many others are busy, is getting access to cheap labour, because they don't want or have the ability to pay the market conditions to attract the workforce. The progress party has once again been in favour of – we tend to be disfellowshiped for it, and we tolerate that – the model we have stood for a very long time, which has been practised in Switzerland with good luck. It is that, in the case of certain professional categories, short-term contracts can be awarded to non-residents outside the EEA without access to family accommodation, so as to return after the completion of the contract. We've said a maximum of three years. Then it would be the labourer who comes here, and not a whole family. Now Erna Solberg would not answer the question from Torbjørn Andersen whether it is such that Right looks to include 10,000 workers in addition to asylum seekers, in addition to refugees, in addition to family reunification, and whether in this figure 10,000 from the Statistical Central Bureau are employed, or whether families are included. Because if there are 10,000 employees, you can expect most people to bring a spouse, and some people want some children with them. So it's going to be pretty big numbers per. in a country with acute housing shortages in most places. So if it's built approx. 22,000 dwellings a year, and there's acute housing shortages, all of a sudden half of the access will be lost in just this new workforce that's going to have a place to live, and that dwelling, as many say, will keep the same quality as what you have here in the country from before. I wish it would make things collapse. Let me also ask you if this relationship might actually be in the process of gradually solving itself. It is said to be cyclical, i.e. to take in labour when there is a need for labour. What if it's the other way around? If it suddenly became unemployment, you say it's not going to be going back, it's going to be here, it's going to be here, it's going to be our social security system, it's going to be full of social rights. The cost can, if it becomes a recession, become quite formidable. What was meant to be the import of labour, cheap as I believe the Right stands for, is the import of social clients. In fact, there are some signs in time that indicate that there may be a recession. If we look at stock exchange values and the declining value of many companies – the IT industry has been mentioned quite a lot – it is not unexpected that there may eventually be some redundancies in the ‘balls’ that have run IT. Suddenly we get into a recession, and then we just have the negative consequences. The Committee itself says that, according to Econ, it's just by getting all the immigrants who are here to work, you should kind of have a profit of $50 billion. Is it not possible to start with a proper integration policy — that all those from outside the EEA who are already in the country are working before attracting more? You also have to see the possibilities of circumvention if the right order is to be followed. There are many industrious immigrants in Norway who run businesses and shops and operate with a lot of strangeness. We know that there is an enormous pressure to get more from maybe neighbouring areas and from family to Norway. We actually have people smuggling to Norway, where you pay a lot of money to get here. We now see the pressure from people who want to be smuggled, who will pay to come here, and see the opening that now Right goes in for, that any employer should be able to sign some papers saying that you have a dwelling, place for a new employee in the store. How can we prevent people from struggling now to get fatter and cousins and other relatives to come to Norway, because now you're completely opening the door to this? There are many who are willing to come here to work for a real, very low money, even though it should be officially under collective agreements, for most of these do not have collective agreements. There is an open invitation to almost free immigration from some countries and from some who already have quite a few in this country, to which the Right adds. It is the actual condition to satisfy employers' demand for cheap labour. We think it's such a naive and blue-eyed thinking that it's almost shocking that the Right has gone in for this. Luckily, at least the Labour Party is holding a part again. I have no problem investigating this, as has been said by the majority. Then the direct consequences will be relatively clear for quite a few, and you will find that this is not reasonable at all. I want to refer to our remarks and our attitude on this, which have generally been exactly the same very long. It could be interesting if the Councils could respond to how it is expected to deal with integration policy and the integration of a large influx of workers from outside the EEA when it is not possible to integrate and get those who are already here into work. How are you going to get this for later? How do you imagine if a person who comes to Norway gets a contract with an employer, gets a so-called dwelling, and then the company might go bankrupt or be cancelled after four months? What happens then? So you're going home again? Or has the entrance ticket been secured, so that the same job can be offered later, and the person who came first has gone over to social assistance? If this was what the Right claims, that the main problem is the lack of labour and skilled labour, then it would be natural for employers to show much more activity in order to obtain labour from the EEA territory. We're a member of a labour market in a number of hundreds of millions of people, but you kind of don't want to do anything to get a workforce out of it. This must be a sign that then the need cannot be as great as you say. It actually substantiates what I say is that the reason why you think you can get labour from outside the EEA is that the pay and working conditions requirements of people outside the EEA are so different that you can pick them up, because getting to Norway yourself under bad conditions will be a great improvement, but it will not be for people from most EEA countries. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against the proposal No. 1 and 2 for proposal No 3 and against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e356	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e361	After listening to the representative Hagen, I would say that there are actually some things that the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on, but it must also be said that there is a lot I want to distance myself from. I note, not least through the remarks, that the Progress Party is concerned with the ethical aspects of rich countries recruiting highly educated people from poor countries, countries that are themselves in themselves very much in need of this labour force. But then I notice that the Progress Party is not similarly concerned with the ethical aspects of how our country accepts and cares for the people we want to use in given situations to care for our interests and needs. Among other things, the Progress Party wants to set a limit of three years for the overall working period for immigrants. And work permits shall, they say, be given for only one year at a time. Furthermore, the lot considers that no family reunification should be allowed. It is well known that the programme and policy of the Progress Party have as their starting point the removal of Norwegian aid, as well as the maintenance of the quarantine period for foreign students. I would like to ask the representative Hagen the following question: Is it really possible that the Progress Party does not see any concerns and conflicts in the argumentation and justification of the party's very negative attitude towards immigration in general and labour immigration in particular? And can the representative Hagen see that the party's position and policy here can easily be seen as a use and caste policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e371	The representative, Kari Mänger, pointed out quite correctly that we are in agreement with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, where we point to the ethical aspects of rich countries recruiting highly educated people from poor countries, who basically need this labour force. This majority asks the Government to also assess this perspective when the case is brought before the Storting. It's really amazing that the Right is not on that note. I can also mention that we are very concerned about what the majority of people want, namely to show a much greater degree of kindness in the case of students who have been to Norway, so that they can stay here and get a job here. It's one of the positive things that we've been talking hot too many times, that one way to give help to poor countries is to get students to Norway and train them so that they can travel back and participate in building up their country. There has been the idea of accepting students from the developing world. And the majority now go in to eliminate, instead of holding on to the agreement they made here, that they should go home and expand their country with the newly acquired knowledge, go in order for them to stay in Norway. We are stuck on the old line and believe that this problem should rather be solved with clearer contracts in advance when they come here, and clarify the rules for them to return. For that was the purpose. As for what Kari Mänger brought up, in three years and one year, it's because there's labour that's being talked about as a reason here. And then it's to come here and work and make money that has to be the purpose. We think that if it were to be the way it really is, that one was for free immigration – what is clearly now without dare to say – one could say that, but if it is about labour, it has worked quite well, among other things. in Switzerland. People from countries where there is great poverty come, make good use of money, acquire knowledge and go home and can establish themselves far better there. It would combine the benefits for both parties. Otherwise, it was wrong when Kari Manger said that we were generally against immigration, and especially labour immigration. It's probably the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e382	I confirm, as Mr Hagen says, that the Progress Party is consistent in its policy. They say no to work immigration, and then they say yes to work permits under very special conditions, namely when Norway is once dusty, when the EEA area is dusty, and then work permits are to be granted without permanent residence permit, without the right to family reunification, and the work permit is to be granted for only one year. In this case, vacuum cleaners must be re-sucked to ensure that there is no labour force in the EEA area. If available, a refusal shall be made. Then no new work permit will be granted. A maximum of three years may be granted. And the three-year limit will motivate entrepreneurs to actively seek employment in the EEA territory. I thought that sole proprietors who most need labour did not need such a three-year rule for their part, but it is clear in the comments and comments of the Progress Party. My question to the representative Hagen will be: How does it harmonize human vision The Progress Party has and the family policy The Progress Party has, with what is perceived by human vision and family policy in relation to people outside the EEA area? Aren't these second-class people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e389	I have to say I am impressed with Ivar Østberg's ability to connect human vision into a practical question about how the rules should be to regulate labour immigration to this country. I think it's quite well done. Then it must be that if you want to have some rules, guidelines and different points of view, everything is reprehensible unless you are in favour of free immigration, that only a positive view of human beings based on the ethical and Christian fundamental values could be called. There are different views between the parties on how to regulate it, and I haven't heard anyone who has openly said that you're in favour of free immigration, which should be the only perfect thing. So we've arranged ourselves in Norway so that we've had a common Nordic labour market for a long time. Without talking about a negative impact on the rest of Europe, there has been a common Nordic labour market. It has now been extended to EEA countries in the EEA context. And that was serious. It must first be possible to move to the nearest ones, which can be most easily adapted to the needs of the labour market as a starting point. I think maybe Ivar Østberg is the first person to claim anything else, or later that he does, but there has actually been the need for labour that has been the reason for the Right and the other parties that will change it. There has been no desire for this to be seen in the light of people from other countries’ desire to get a job in Norway. And that's what's really in the Ivar Østberg now trying to pull up. So this is perfectly consistent with our very positive human vision, which is based on the Christian and ethical values, but we are therefore choosing to take exactly the starting point of the EEA Agreement and the EEA labour market. Furthermore, we see in our eyes that Norway is one of the countries that is so attractive to find that many people are allowed to smuggle and pay large amounts of money to get here, and then we find it strange if we are to open up this labour immigration, as especially Right will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e396	Without making any attempt to bring agreement between the Progress Party and the Right, I would just like to stress that the representative Solberg has done well to ensure that there are no quota calculations in our labour migration advance. Either it's ten thousand of one kind or another, it's a flexible scheme when the need is present, which is in the Right's proposal. We are aware that the Progress Party has a more relaxed relationship with competitive business than the Right has. We have seen this in a number of macroeconomic discussions on budgetary balance sheets, interest rate curves, etc. But when Carl I. Hagen talks about those who are already here – and many have spoken about it – it could be tempting with a relatively rough rewriting of Father Holberg: We don't have an IT specialist, but we have two there baking bread. So even if we have a number of people, no one person can blame any position. And that brings me so far to a project that Carl I. Hagen has a father relationship to, IT Fornebu, which is obviously going to have a global recruitment sphere. What kind of recruitment will we get to such an environment from the point of view of the Progress Party, where there is no possibility of bringing a family, and where one is to be sent out quite quickly if there is otherwise labour to be recovered within the EEA area? Business headquarters may also need a global recruitment sphere. What would the market be like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e403	Let me first make it clear that as I have seen this matter, this is about changes to existing laws, regulations and arrangements. The present, as we accept, has not been an obstacle to getting foreign expertise to the oil industry every year, with families. They're here for a few years and they're going home again. There has been no obstacle for many companies to practice it. This is about expansion, and that's the expansion we've put some restrictions on. We have examined in detail our views on this in the Inner East. S. No 117 for 1999-2000 from the Judicial Committee, which had a thorough examination of this issue a year ago. So there it'll be covered up. With regard to the issue of IT fornebu, there are today quite a number of possibilities. The composition of the Norwegian working life also shows that there are a good number of foreigners who are here for some years, who have family and work here. Where this might stand out a little bit, it's that you're fully aware of and it's quite obvious that it's not permanent. It's not too good. They're here to carry out a job. Leaving aside this special qualification requirement, special qualifications are required here and evidence is provided that there is a shortage of Norwegian labour force – to extend this to unskilled labour, where to abandon this control and check that there is a real need for skilled labour, to unskilled labour, the Right in reality opens up a kind of free immigration and new and far easier ways of smuggling people to Norway – that is what you open up. Then it's no longer necessary to smuggle people, then you sort it through papers. And there's a part, as unfortunately it's turned out, that's become experts in counterfeiting papers. And then it becomes a real detective device to find out what you got from an employer. Have you got a real job with a home, or have you not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e413	For the Central Party, this matter is about what society we want, what values we want our society to build on in the future. We want a business that has the possibility of using Norway as a whole. We want a public sector that will also take care of important joint tasks in the future. There is currently an imbalance between the tasks to be solved and the available workforce. We know that it requires effort, commitment and creativity from both private and public employers, from many employees and from the board of directors, to be closed better than today. The Central Party believes that the need for labour should be met primarily by re-training and qualification of domestic labour and by measures that include more and encourage people to stand longer in the labour market. Increasing competition and market pressure are increasing the labour market. Social exclusion is an increasing problem. For many occupational groups, disability and early retirement are now the most common way of leaving the labour market. We don't want a development where the labour market is split into an A-layer, with safe insertion relationships, a B-layer, with chronic insecure links to work, and a C-layer, which at best has sporadic connections. Let me point at four points. First of all, we know that people with disabilities would like to try their way into work if they were able to do so. Developments in disability are very alarming – especially the increase in the number of young people. We give the government the opportunity to put in place more measures from the Equalisation message, an extension of the payroll scheme, greater conditions than today to combine work and social security, greater opportunities for disabled people to spend longer time taking higher education, greater commitment and better coordination between different public institutions, not least between Aetat and Social Security. The hearing, which also includes the Joint Organisation of Disability and the Velferd Alliance, underlined the need for a more offensive attitude for this group, as well as the urgency of action. Secondly, we also know that non-Western immigrant unemployment is three times higher than otherwise. Centres against ethnic discrimination gave a serious example of the need to take decisive action both in the state and in the private sector to change attitudes, to take people with ethnic minority backgrounds that are all in the country more seriously. Thirdly, the practice that is now being established in many workplaces when it comes to social exclusion of people who are plus/minus 60 years of age must be countered. Here you need a more conscious hold, even from the state. In fact, in the wake of the government’s flagship — modernisation and renewal of the public sector — additional shelling may occur. There are currently alarming messages, for example. in the case of the reorganisation of Item BA. Additional incentives from government are necessary to ensure that more employers see the value of maintaining experience and competence. Fourthly, the institution of asylum must pass. We still believe that there is a need for a softening, greater liberalism towards people who are already included in the local working life before they receive an answer to their application. In fact, it's about greater understanding in the fight against racism, opening up the possibility of being around those who are well integrated into a community with housing and work. A certain exchange of labour between countries is positive. The fact that the Nordics can go out to get work and foreigners can come here to get work, give people useful skills, increase cultural understanding and allow them to bring new impulses and competences when they get home. Therefore, labour immigration must be based on non-discrimination between people from different countries and not only reserved for citizens from privileged countries within the OECD and the EEA territory. The law needs to be more flexible for jobseekers from outside the EEA area who are already living in the country, for example: foreign students, refugees and asylum seekers. The size of labour immigration needs to be determined in cooperation with the social partners. It is a premise that Norwegian pay and working conditions should apply, and Norwegian training requirements must be settled within industries where this is necessary for security reasons. Today, we have a code where there is an opening for a certain amount of immigration. I find reason to ask the Council of State to support the necessary competences, so that the rules you have today can be practised with sound discretion. The issue of whether or not a hound is seasonal work has been resolved fortunately. The example well tells us that there is already a cleanup going on in relation to just practicing with sound judgement. There is also a need to soften the regulatory environment. The right has taken important initiatives. We support the possibility of looking for a job from Norway rather than from the home country, to allow foreign students who have studied in Norway to apply for a job in accordance with the same rules as other foreigners, and to simplify the legislation. But our wish is that we are now better off than we have done today, exploiting the unique situation that the country is today, to include several of those who today are not related to the world of work and who are in our country. There is a shortage of labour. Then, too, opportunities would be far greater for more people to be included with an active effort. We will give the Government a chance to come back with a thorough evaluation of further actions – the long-term programme is in the configuration called as a single document. I have had as much opportunity today to look at the inside of the document submitted. I have to say that I am so surprised – with the fact that I have not read all the pages – that the Government of that document, according to what has been said in the correspondence with the Committee, does not present any more measures. There is a warning of a review of the foreign law, which should also mean a softening in this field. It's quite defensive if there's a selection to be cut down at the turn of the year 2001-2002 – which will then work for two years, and then send a basis for a document to the Stortinget – which is the solution to the challenges we're facing today. I assumed that that was not the case. I'm assuming that we get a statement at that point from the government councils that it's in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e448	I'm going to refer to a section on page 4 of the setting. It says: «The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party indicate that in a number of municipalities there are refugees and asylum seekers working in the local business community before they have received a reply to their application for asylum or residence permit. These members will refer to the reactions of many communities when people who are well integrated are informed that they need to leave the country and the difficulties it may cause in relation to resettlement. These members consider that there is a need for decoration in this area. It will also reduce the need for labour immigration.» My question is therefore: Does the Central Party believe that only one refugee or asylum seeker is able to get a job in Norway, so should he stay in the country, regardless of the other rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e458	We are in Norway today in a situation where there are numerous examples of difficulties in including people with a minority background in Norwegian working life. In addition, there is a broad commitment from both the party in the Stortinget, from the Government, from different organisations and from different communities – an engagement, a struggle – against racism. Then there are some communities that have accepted people who have asked for shelter from them, people who unfortunately because of problems in relation to the proceedings, wait for a longer time to have their applications reviewed. They are included in the meantime: they get work, they get housing, they get a network around them. And many in these communities ask the question: How can we teach our kids about the world and the fight against racism, when we have to spend time explaining to them that their friends in school who were here for a short time, unfortunately have been sent out of this country because they are from the wrong country? I note that this is a debate that the Commission has also taken. Let me stress: it's not that simple that I want to answer yes to Einar Johansen's question, but what we're saying in this comment is that there is a need for an emulation in this field. The Value Commission has gone further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e467	Right goes too many steps to get more of those living in the country to work. That way, we're not confused with what's being said by the Center Party. But in all respects, if we are to be able to keep the wheels moving in Norwegian business, both in the public and private sectors, we will also need labour from abroad in the future. There's something theoretical and unreal about the debate we've witnessed so far, it looks a little like the one we had when we went to the EEA. Opponents claimed that Norway would flood with foreign labour that would destroy Norwegian labour and compete with Norwegian labour. Of course, this has not happened. We must stop believing that all the world will go to Norway to work if they are only allowed. We need to work outside the EEA if we are to be able to use the whole country, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa just said. A lot of businesses, especially in District Norway, have a huge shortage of people. And I think there's a reason to ask, when workers, professionals or unskilled people can't be obtained, for example. to the fishing industry in District Norway, and the companies are in contact with people who want to do a job – all other opportunities are exhausted, including those called Meltveit Kleppa – why do we have to say no to these people who want to go to Norway to join and develop District Norway and help us to make use of the whole country? I would like to receive an answer from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e477	First of all, something that must be a misunderstanding. It was not the case that the parties who voted against the EEA Agreement in this Chamber feared that workers from other countries would fly across the country. On the contrary, the same parties have called for a more open and liberal refugee policy, for example. In fact, it was about the fact that the Constitution in this country would still be superior to EU law. I think Petter Løvik and I can be quite certain that the consequences of the EEA agreement have become much more extensive than most of us had expected, whether we were in favour of or against that agreement. So how District Norway should solve its labour needs. It's a challenge, there's no doubt about it. In this setting, we have arranged for a more thorough assessment of the sequence or limits of the type of labour for which it should be created. So we don't want to give our support to the Right's proposals today, because we're worried that we're going to have a development where many people who are disabled, and many who are immigrants here in Norway, shouldn't get the opportunity that they should have today, to be included in the working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e484	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa stated that there was a positive exchange of labour between countries, and that is precisely what is ensured by the EEA Agreement. Today, we have a free Nordic labour market, and through the EEA Agreement, we have secured a free labour market, with all EU countries. The EEA Agreement ensures that there is no obstacle to the movement of labour between the EU Member States and Norway. But it's the way the Center Party is going to cancel the EEA Agreement. In that case, what will the Central Party do in relation to the problems it would be able to impose on Norway as regards the need for cross-border labour mobility? Does not the Central Party perhaps recognise that the EEA Agreement provides for certain benefits today in terms of the labour situation in Norway and that, with its positions on the EEA Agreement – if they were given what they wanted – the party would reinforce the problems of labour shortage in Norway today? It should then be that the Centre Party might now start to think a little bit about its positions in this way, began to see some advantages of the EEA Agreement, at least in the context of what we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e491	There is no secret that the Senterpartiet sees that there are some areas where the EEA Agreement is divided – it shows the way we handle different directives. In fact, we are going to adopt some later today. When it comes to the labour force situation, our attitude is that there should also be a possibility for countries outside the EEA, which should be possible for workers from countries outside the EEA, to take up work in Norway. We don't understand that the Progress Party on one side can stand here and say in a lot of words that they want to secure more disabled work, while on the other hand they won't be able to sanction it. Nor do we fully understand this distinction between the EEA and other countries. And how we would arrange it if we didn't have the EEA agreement – that would be one of the simplest areas where one could have made agreements bilaterally. It's not that the Center Party, because we were against the EEA, is against other international agreements. On the contrary – we are always engaged in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e500	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e503	SV sees that there is a need for greater transparency in immigration policy than what we are going to adopt today. Two years ago SV promoted a Document No. 8 proposals for a 'Green Card' scheme, i.e. a quota system for immigration. It was about two important principles: it was about both attitudes that we believe are needed in a modern multicultural society, and it was about the need for labour. Nations and society need the cultural and economic stimulus offered by immigration and emigration. In the light of an increasingly global knowledge, labour and goods market, there is a need for far wider and more diverse skills than what we have today. Future jobs are created by people with diverse knowledge and ability to combine untraditionally across disciplines and cultures. Contact networks shall be built both for business and for cultural life. Interpersonal friendship and family ties shall be linked and will be an indispensable network in a globalised world. Such internationalisation must be based on what serves increased interaction between ordinary peoples, greater knowledge and understanding of diversity and inequalities. Such an insight into the lives of others can be crucial for individuals, society and business and will be an indispensable competence to develop new and solidarity with internationalism. Our own need and desire to get to know others and have freedom of navigation to choose to travel where one will and reside and work also becomes more important and needs to be balanced with a reasonable opportunity for others to come to Norway. Attitudes towards other cultures are also reflected in immigration policy. Strict and closed legislation signals that immigration is threatening and negative. A more open law signals that Norway wants a diverse society and through its policies will actively contribute to it. So for a little bit of the treatment that's been in the committee. It's been a long one, and it's been kind of thorough. But in the final question I have to admit that SV had some problems. It was because we were informed in the course of the case that the government would make some changes. We were pleased, and that was one of the reasons why SV then concluded that we would wait to take a position on the details of the proposals that were there. Several of them we have great sympathy for at least the main intention of. So – quite in the request for treatment – the government concluded on several points. And what they did was good. But it was in no way far enough compared to what SV wanted. I was also a little stunned when I heard that the case rapporteur again today in a way signalled that the government would bring something more than what we had now seen, despite the signals that the government had given that they had not thought. I have also taken a little look in the long-term programme that has come out today, and it says that it is in the context of the large review of the Foreign Affairs Act that you should look at these questions, and it will take quite a while. From the SV's point of view, it is quite clear that there is a need here to make changes before that time, so I think that perhaps the case-rapporteur spoke a little further than the government was willing to go. However, when SV has concluded that we are not going to vote in favour of the Right's proposal today, it is mainly because we feel that the consequences of them are too unexplained. We have great sympathy with their intention, but it becomes a bit too one-sided on our premises and on our short-term needs – cyclical dependence becomes too strong in these proposals. And it's enough that some of what we want to experience with them is to facilitate access to cheap unskilled labour. It may be necessary, but there may also be ways to get people to do the necessary jobs, such as being willing to pay for these jobs so that they can live off them. There is one side of this matter that perhaps the Right has not been equally concerned about. We are also very concerned about making a comprehensive policy, so that those who are not working today in Norway are given the opportunity to get to work. There is a broad consensus about when we talk about it at a level of attitude or at more a level of value, but when we come to the measures, unfortunately, the majority of people lose their way when it comes to taking action that we know can get people to work. It is with a little wonder that, year after year, I read the budget settings, that the Directorate of Labour writes that measures help, and that measures get people to work, but at the same time they cut down on the measures. I have also not seen that the Right has been particularly active on that point when it comes to helping many of those who are now out of work to join. Part of this debate is that there is a great need for labour in the future. That view shares SV. But we also want to say that there has been a very one-sided focus in the Norwegian debate on this topic until now. It's been that we've had such good people's rights that we have to somehow reduce them, so that people have to work more for some reason. We believe that the one-sided focus it has been on weakening the various systems of popular fear to make people work more has been a dangerous bypass to the great challenge of providing enough labour, not least to all the major, important reforms that we have adopted with regard to older people, health and school. And I hope that we will also have some reforms with regard to kindergartens – it looks like this. It may not be that a strict immigration policy automatically leads to a job for people with disabilities, or that immigrants get a job. It also requires some measures. The challenge is that those who now also want more immigration because they see that there is a need for labour are also involved in a much more active policy to get people with disabilities and immigrants who are in the country, who have problems getting a job, into active solutions. SV has presented a long menu of measures that we believe would work. One of the most important measures, which I am going to repeat now, is that we should put in place a system in which people who are unemployed are given the opportunity to improve their skills or to take action very quickly. Everyone knows that going free and having nothing to do with it destroys competence and destroys the marine image and destroys the possibility of working in the workplace. A modern working life requires, first and foremost, great social skills. A lot of the new jobs will be jobs in the service sector that require a whole new and different competence of a lot of people, so this requires us to go into a much earlier time than what we are doing today. In addition, we need to find some more legal openings in order to get to Norway and work here. For SV, it will be an important and absolutely crucial principle that the policies we define, and the openings we give, should not be such that it becomes a use and a throw-off policy. Anyone who comes here to Norway to do a job we want them to do should have the opportunity to live here and earn their civil rights, like everyone else. Anything else will be ethically unacceptable. I think that might be a question I had needed to ask the representatives of the Workers' Party today. I didn't get any lines on them. But SV has established this principle in a comment in the setting, and the Workers' Party has not adhered to such a principle. I think that's a little worrying. I would like to think that a representative from the Workers' Party would clarify whether the Workers' Party would support and stand firm on such a principle in terms of labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e534	As far as the Committee's position is concerned, the Left shares the intentions of the Right's proposal but will not vote in favour of the main proposal because of some concerns about the practical steps taken. But we will vote in favour of the second of the proposals, which are about to soften the legislation, because it is an independent point to mark in itself. We have also submitted a separate proposal, which I already mentioned at the beginning of the article. As we see it in the Left, we need free hands in Norway. We need them. Let's quickly agree, and we're sure here, that we can get someone by getting better at communicating in our own country. If we had gained a better understanding of all employers so that we could take advantage of the working capacity of people like us too easily to retire, if we could better exploit the working capacity of people like us too easily to retire, we would have free hands that we could use. Our reasoning is based on the fact that even if we do this, and even if we are able to set a Norwegian record in setting a sort of social propensity threshold that makes them not quite top efficient in working life, we will need labour. After the assessment we have made on the basis of discussions with professionals in the field, on the basis of discussions with those who are familiar with our business life, we have come to the figure contained in the proposal, that we need labour immigration of up to 10,000 per cent. years in the years that come to ensure both value creation and welfare solutions in the Norwegian society. It is an important premise for our proposal, and that is that when people come to Norway, they have the rights and duties that are here. That is, when you get here, you have social rights in line with those that are initially here. We don't want people to come here as workers and have secondary social rights. On the contrary, they must be fully accepted. The classic example of this is he who comes here, works black, climbs on a roof and falls down and breaks his back, and is then sent home as a wreck, and no one is responsible for it. We want an orderly system that also means a social propensity for the people involved. I am aware that the measures taken by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, which have also been presented recently by the Government, mean an embellishment. I have seen that this can be estimated to be about 1,500–2,000 people per year. We think that the figure is too low, and that is why we have presented the proposal that I have mentioned. I would like to add: I think that taking these people outside of the EEA area, of which we are followers, will also be an enrichment for Norwegian society. That means that we'll have to learn to meet people who are not like us in the first place, but who there'll be a self-esteem in that we meet. Then I have to say that in our own country, many have rightly turned our attention to the fact that we are unable to exploit competent immigrants. I know that the government is doing a job that it has wanted to do properly in combating ethnic discrimination. I have no comment that that job should be done properly. I give my support that it takes a little longer than originally wanted, because I want it to be done properly. But there are some things that amaze me. For example, I myself sit in my big office with a letter from a private vocational school in Oslo called Minerva. Some pedagogical idealists who start an approved school that needs engineers have qualified engineers with migrant backgrounds as applicants, are willing to take out up to 15 of them and provide them with the practical skills they lack to be approved in Norway — and labor their lives to get the right authorities to be able to do so. I am going to deal with this in an appropriate form with those who are responsible for it, because I am convinced that this is what we have to solve. When someone is willing to exploit this competence, some form of responsibilities powderisation or people's fear of making a mistake cannot prevent it from being used. Then I will touch a relationship briefly at the end of the article. I'm here for the asylum institute not to be eroded. But I would like to see it as a discretionary option in some cases to also use asylum seekers when they otherwise comply with the specialist work provision. I have examples of craft companies here in the eastern part of the country, where they have Kosovar Albanians who came before the airbridge, who are actually skilled workers in such a way that they carry a business, and how parallel enterprises in the absence of labour have moved to Poland or the Czech Republic, and where it is not desirable to get into such a situation. Not using these people is completely wrong. We have often made some discretionary judgements in Norwegian policy. I've been to someone that I'm not sure I'm just as excited about afterwards, but being able to take advantage of this workforce in these exceptional cases will not erode the institution of asylum. I express myself so rashly, because I respect a government that is trying to keep a balance between the institution of asylum and the immigration of labour. Once again, I am addressing the proposal I have referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e553	The representative of Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e556	There is a broad consensus that we are going to need more labour in the years to come, not least in the health sector. Although there are alarming times on the market during the day, not least in the ICT industry, more people with IT skills are needed here too. According to population development projections, the proportion of working age will decline and the proportion of older people with a need for care services will increase. This applies not only to us, but also to other European countries. That is why we also find this debate in all other European countries. I fully agree with the majority of the Committee, which believes that increased labour migration is one of several relevant instruments to ensure that we have access to the skills requested. We will come back to the proposals that the majority are calling for, and that the Government has also gone out with, in an appropriate way in the near future. Some of the proposals can be implemented without any changes being made to either the law or the regulation, some of which concern regulatory changes, and some of them concern legislative changes. The government aims to come back with a case about the legislative changes we are bringing forward during the spring, and has already sent some proposals for changes to the hearing on 23 March, of course in line with what we have presented. Of course, we also have to do other things, as many people have already done, like, for example. to prevent exclusion from the labour market and to increase the number of unemployed at work, not least people with a different ethnic background. The Committee also points out this in its position, and it is also important to be involved in the work on the long-term programme and on the budget, both at government level and at large. Many workers from the Nordic countries have crossed borders with Norway for a long time and often. We find Swedes in construction sites and in the cash register at Rimi. We find Danes as nurses, as training instructors and as babysitters. But now we see how easy they will be when the labour market improves in the home country. The labour force in the rest of the EEA area is not mobile. It is not least marked in a ‘foreign’ as Norway. Last year it came about. 2600 new employees from EEA countries outside the Nordic countries, which was thus 600 to 700 fewer than in the previous year. There was also a slight decrease in the modest specialist immigration from outside the EEA, showing figures from the UDI's annual report, so we are talking about approximately. 300 workers. Therefore, there is also a broad consensus that we need to go outside the EEA to find some of the employees we need extra in the future. We will not succeed without a very active recruitment policy. In addition, we need to have an administration that can quickly and efficiently grant work and residence permits without long waiting time and without too much unnecessary bureaucracy. The majority do not want to add to a pronounced guest worker policy. The government seems to be making sense. If we're going to be able to compete for skilled labour that's requested in many countries, we have to offer good conditions. This means, among other things: The possibility of taking the family with me, and in this context I point out the importance of having as short a period of time as possible, including for family members who are going to be with the mother, father or spouse of Norway, and we are working very actively on this. The right has been left alone to support the proposal to open up increased labour mobility in general, and not only for workers with vocational training or other special qualifications requested in Norway. There are several reasons why we don't want to go that far in this round. There are very many people who would then be able to come to Norway and seek work, even in parts of the world of work, where it may be difficult to follow the conditions and rules of the game. We have e.g. in cases where employees in the restaurant industry have worked under extremely poor pay, employment and housing conditions. Avoiding such situations will include, inter alia: Get more difficult if you skip as much as the right here suggests. When we look at this in the context of the other measures we have proposed, in particular the possibility to provide a jobseeker visa and to apply for a work permit from the rich, it is difficult to understand the overall impact. I would also like to stress that we have quite a potential for using the resources we have among those who are domestically unemployed. Not least our new compatriots, where unemployment is much higher than that of the rest of the Norwegian population. I also have to say that I am stunned when I see that some companies refuse to hire people because they are using droughts on their heads, when there is at the same time a screaming shortage of labour. Then it's about attitudes that I don't like, and that we have to distance ourselves from. There we also have a great job to do, in addition to the decorations that the majority now add up to, and that the Government supports and is pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e585	In the last turn in the handling of this matter, the government came up with a number of simplifications and new arrangements for more people to come to Norway to work. Some changes were significant. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the Government's proposal, but in terms of goals, we probably don't think we are. In several comments both from the majority and from the minority, there are some things that should be considered in the future. No, the council said something about it. But it has been reported that the new proposals mean changes in laws. I expect that even if the changes in the law become significant in such a case, things will be linked. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is important to change the law, but they can confirm that they do not prevent the assessment of major parts of the package from being included. What worries me as a coastal woman is that we don't have to close the door because the businesses along the coast that have just had, for example. Swedes at work, Swedes who are now returning home, should have the opportunity to pick up labour even if they do not have expert status. We have to find arrangements for that. I wonder if the Council of State is concerned with the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e593	What the government adds, is to open up something more to specialists or experts, and I think that's important to hold on to. Then it is that in the case of some of the proposals that the majority have accepted here, which are identical to what the Government has also addressed, there is no need for legislative changes. There are many of them that only require regulatory changes, and some can actually be implemented by simply giving instructions about it. Of course, we're going to make sure that this is done as quickly as possible. Then there's a few of them where laws need to be amended, and we're going to try to figure out who we're doing now in ours. What we don't do, we have to take early in the harvest. The goal must be, at least as I see it, to have everything in place and in function by the end of the year, depending on how fast we can get it to slide where it's going to slide. Of course, the government also takes with it the signals given by the majority of the committee. And it is, as was also said here, a reference to this in the long-term programme. There we have the opportunity to come up with more principal views on what a wish for future labour immigration. And then, of course, the government will come back as soon as possible, as I have outlined, with more concrete proposals for legislative changes. And as I said, what we're reaching out in ours is now at the hearing. So I hope that we can now make sense of what it now seems like there's a majority for in many areas, as soon as possible, so that we get rid of some rules that are obviously completely hopeless and very bureaucratic. For example, those who insist that people have to go home to their home country to apply for a work permit in Norway, that hospitals have to last a long time and have to go through the paper mill that the process between UDI and the labour market seat is, in order to find out if there really is a need for x number of nurses, etc. That's where we've now suggested relief. I think that kind of rules are very important if we are to get started as soon as possible, so that bureaucracy is minimised, that we get treatment time down and thus also get faster labour in the sectors where we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e604	In relation to these simplifications that should be done, there is one proposal among the four we have, which it has surprised me a little bit that the Government has obviously not thought about, namely proposal IV. It is about the situation in some enterprises when there is a shortage of labour, namely that you need workers, you know that the need is there – the authorities know that the need is there and the labour market seat is fully aware of it – but you cannot start applying for work permits to get this job done until you have an employee to fill the job. What we're proposing is that companies in such situations, when you don't have people in Norway who can fill the job, be able to get work permits for this explicit job. And once they've got workers qualified to do the job, they report to the UDI that they've received the work permit for the NN, and then UDI checks whether for some reason, criminal law or other, they can't get to Norway. And if he doesn't get it, actually this person is already working. Flexible, simple and absolutely controlled – because the need is controlled. On our proposal, the UDI gets one month to stop this person. This proposal has been rejected by the Council of State and did not want to consider it further. It is a proposal that would make it much easier for a number of industries, not least for the construction industry and many others looking for labour today. It's a circumstanceal process to have to work to find a person, and then that person is always linked to the individual employee. I'm just surprised, when I hear the Council of State talking about the importance of making this easier, that you haven't seen that here you have an instrument to make things more flexible. This concludes in my fundamental question: Is the Council of State making several proposals in addition to those notified? And will the Council of State present a case where one can get a basis to consider the two proposals that the majority actually says they want an impact assessment of?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e613	The Government will, of course, consider the proposals which the Committee is in favour of and evaluate the majority of the comments in the Committee's opinion. We're going to promote differently, as I've outlined, the proposals we've given the signals about earlier, and as a majority of people far on the way support it most of all. And I want to look at the others, of course. In what form we come back with the others, I can't say anything about now, but, as I said, we're making a proposition about law changes already in ours. With regard to the second question raised by the representative of Solberg, it is correct that the Government will not go as far as the Right proposes. It's simply because we think it's important to have some control over what we're going to do. And the important steps that we are taking in relation to the problem that Erna Solberg is dealing with, and that the Government is also concerned with, and that will solve a lot of this, by allowing four departments, including the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, to set an annual ceiling on how many specialists or professionals you need, will lead to a lack of such a situation as this. The central hospital in Elverum was up in, that they needed eight nurses from Australia, and where the process between the hospital, the UDI and the labour market seat took a very long time. And now, when we also open up the possibility for the employer to apply for a work permit on behalf of the employee, while at the same time opening up the process between the labour market seat and the UDI, it saves a lot of time. We have been told that only that gripping how many people can get will lead to a reduction in the processing time from four to two months. I would like to say that we should have the aim of further reducing the processing time, in line with what our neighbouring country has.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e622	Brustad also believes that we need labour immigration. Personally, I am not so sure whether the lack of labour is really the biggest problem. I believe it is essential to assess in a more comprehensive perspective what the current Norwegian workforce is doing, and how effective we can be here in the country in relation to, for example, the Norwegian labour force. other countries. And there's a reason to ask: Is there too many workers involved in unproductive jobs, for example. in the public bureaucracy? Is it really reasonable to transfer an increasing share of the workforce from the value-creating sector to a monopolistic and competitive public sector? And is it not a danger signal that Norway has had a productivity increase of just 0.6 pst. per year, while Sweden has experienced a 5.1 pst increase in productivity in industry over the same period. annual? So is it going to be like this in the country that where we need two Nordics to do a job, does it hold with one Swedish? Then we need labour immigration, then. What we really should have presented was a big message if we manage to make use of the large workforce in the best and most effective way, and the Council of State should think about that. More should be in productive action, fewer should be paper movers. Then we will have better use of the workforce, and we will not have the same need for labour immigration as some people have expressed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e629	The whole public sector renewal project for which Kosmo is the head of state council is, of course, just a grip where we want, among other things. to release personnel from administration and from service. And that's what we're looking at, we've already done a lot, and we're going to propose more in the near future. But then I want to say: the public sector is doing what we politicians have ordered them to do. And when we have a lot of employees in the care of the elderly and in health care, it's first of all because we've decided that this is the way it should be; we donate money to it every year. And that's the way it's getting older, more and more people need care both in health care and care for the elderly, and we need some people to do that job. But then the challenge is that we both make things less manageable and move paper and more out to do that job. For example, nurses must: To a greater extent, use the time to take care of old people in a nursing home instead of sitting and making sure that the tour and the temporary workers go in. That's one thing. The Government is actively working on this. The second is that I think we're wondering if we don't see that there's a shortage of labour besides that, labour that we'll have to pick up differently. Here we have a large domestic potential. But it is also the case that we should be able to receive some more from other countries that want to come here and do a job, and that we need. What really lies at the root of this is that the Progress Party has a completely different view of people coming from countries other than the Labour Party, and what I feel is that the majority of the Stortinget has. Here the Progress Party stands out in my opinion in the negative sense, because I think it is actually enriching for the Norwegian community that we also get more people here from other countries that have a different background and culture that we also need in Norway. And if we're going to be able to take care of the elderly and the sick who need it, we also have to do some relaxations in relation to work immigration, and I'm glad that the majority have joined it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e640	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e643	I mean, budget-inner. S. No 5 for 2000-2001 the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party say that they: 'will underline the importance of special labour market measures for the long-term unemployed. Within these groups, there is a high labour market potential which will contribute to both increased quality of life for those concerned and increased access to labour for society. These members are aware that several of those working part-time today want to expand their own scope of work. These members will underline the potential of the workforce that this represents and what enhanced efforts can be made towards them. There is also reason to point out the many older workers who have difficulties re-entering the labour market despite having full working capacity». I am pleased that the majority of the Committee now endorses this, by agreeing that these are important premises in labour migration as one of several employment policy instruments. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the entire Committee underlines the problem of older workers exploding in the past and in the past. The Committee says that this is a very regrettable development that one must take seriously. Action must be taken in relation to this, if necessary. It may be appropriate to point out that during the open consultation held by the Committee on Labour Immigration, it was noted that in Norway, paradoxically, we pay people out of work through different schemes. Professor Steinar Stroem from the University of Oslo went through the AFP arrangements. He thought it was a realistic suggestion to join the Stortinget that AFP pensioners who are on their way from work to retirement pay the same tax as if they had been employees. The AFP pensioners earn pension credits while they are AFP pensioners. At such an increase, the chance of an immediate transition to the AFP decreases. This could result in about 3,000 people per person. years were waiting to retire until they had reached the age of 67. The public sector pension is more generous than in the private sector from the age of 65. By making pensions the same, one could reduce the transition from public sector work to AFP. – All of this according to Professor Stroem’s opinions at the open hearing. We in the Christian People's Party are very aware that many workers need schemes like the AFP to get a worthy end to their professional career. Such schemes are far better than long-term sick messages or disability benefits. The problem is the wrong signals we give by paying healthy workers out of work. Finally, Harald Trulsrud, from the Velferd Alliance, an association of 12 organisations such as the have in common that they represent people who are excluded or have difficulties re-entering the labour market, had a prayer. One thing had shocked them Trulsrud represented, and it was that the proposers of Document No. The 8th proposal, the Minister of Finance and the former Labour Director had said that the labour reserve had been exhausted. According to Trulsrud, the stigmatisation of 160,000 people in Aetat’s systems is useless in the Norwegian labour market. Trulsrud asked what kind of signal this was to send out to many people who are already lying down. The prayer of the committee was to correct that impression to these people. The Christian People's Party signal to these is that we all need willing and free hands, not least the hands of those who stand in Aeta's queues as jobseekers. The debate shows that the entire Committee and the Storting are committed to giving the same signal: all hands are to be put into service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e666	During the processing of Right Document No. It has been natural to reduce the number of proposals made by us from four to two, which remain as minority proposals in the vote. In cultural life, these days we are talking about the film title "High and Enthusiastic". It is difficult to transfer this directly to the government party, but let's try a moderate rewrite and call it ‘benevolent, but concerned’. Perhaps the most striking thing about today's setting is that there is a considerable gap in describing the theme, which needs to be referred to, but cannot be considered as internal pathways in the focus we should have on the need for labour in an acute situation. All solutions other than labour migration to meet labour demand are also high-quality areas of work that should shape our political everyday life for the most part of the year, without responding to the needs of business and to the extent that the public sector now documents. In fact, the whole committee agrees that there is a paradox that there are many thousands of unemployed in Norway today, and that unemployment is up to three times as high among non-Western immigrants as elsewhere. However, there is reason to argue that if these non-Western immigrants had come to the country with the required skills, with jobs, with housing and satisfactory language skills to do their work, then such an imbalance would not be visible. On the right, the rest of the committee agrees that it is important to mobilise domestic labour, including low-employee immigrant background groups and/or the many who are not allowed to use their skills in the job. We also agree with the rest of the Committee that it must be an objective to reduce excessive sick leave and to mobilise the workforce concealed by the disability system in this country. Of course, we have other measures to reduce sick leave than other political parties, but the objective is to a large extent in common precisely in this context. All that has been said about the combination of work and social security – and not least about the combination of retirement and work – is entirely in line with the thoughts that also the Right has made, of course. It is also the case that, with our proposals, we have not in any way intended to open up to social dumping. The Norwegian working and pay conditions must therefore be maintained. We note that a majority have ethical concerns about rich countries recruiting highly educated people from poor countries who initially need this labour force. I'm afraid that Norwegian immigration policy can hardly solve this global problem, and so the argument seems to be relatively little accurate here. In my view, it is also excessive concern when the majority focuses heavily on the housing standard, which is one of the premises of the proposal. The most important thing here must be that the housing offer is acceptable to the jobseeker in question. Furthermore, there is excessive concern on the part of the majority when it is pointed out that more open borders do not automatically provide more open corporate sports. Open corporate sports are a crucial premise for the proposal, and the majority must be said to be totally out of focus here. In fact, it is a deficit of about ten thousand people in Norwegian working life each year in the coming years. A successful policy in this area is estimated to provide a 50 billion DKK gain over the next decade. We believe that our proposals are part of the necessary flexibility to achieve such goals. This also includes transferring part of the practical work permit steps to private hands under subsequent full official control. From the comments of the Progress Party, it appears that the party has an absolute limit of three years for such workers that we are talking about in this setting. It seems quite strange to us that one should be forced to cast out a successful employed American for possibly after three years to replace him with an unknown Italian. It would call for a new debate on the embellishment of a rigid regulatory framework if the policy of the Progress Party had been implemented at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e687	In an international context, Norway has a low unemployment rate — fortunately. In February, the registered unemployment rate was 2.8 pst. Norway also has a working life capable of integrating a larger proportion of the working age population into work than we see in most other countries. While more attention is being paid to employers’ labour supply problems, it is important to focus on this, it is also important not to try to present the low unemployment rate and the high employment rate as a problem. For us, it's a blessing that we're actually in such a situation. Think, you guys, if we had been in the opposite situation! At the same time as more labour is sought, we see that many groups are being pushed out of the labour market. It is therefore an important objective to reverse this trend. The government attaches great importance to mobilising domestic labour resources. The low unemployment rate and the high demand for labour are a good starting point for helping long-term unemployed, young people, disabled people and immigrants into work. We have a historic opportunity to get both measures and schemes that perhaps on a permanent basis bring many of them into permanent work. It is therefore important that the rules on labour immigration be structured in such a way that they do not go beyond the objectives we have of integrating larger parts of domestic labour resources into permanent work. I see labour immigration as a complement to the mobilisation of domestic labour resources. The demographic projections of the Central Bureau may indicate a sustained labour deficit. The government’s long-term programme therefore discusses these perspectives more broadly. The fact that we have both a current and a long-term need has helped the Government to see it as an important task to carry out a thorough review of the labour immigration legislation. This has been explained by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. In some disciplines it is not possible to meet the needs of domestic labour in the short term. Many can be recruited from EEA countries where we have a free labour market. However, there is a need for some other groups of staff to recruit outside the EEA territory. The need for more doctors and nurses is a good example. Here Aetat actively participates in the recruitment work. And we set up agreements with a number of countries to seek, in cooperation with them, to recruit that labour force to Norway. Of course, if the NHO or other employers’ organisations wish to cooperate more closely with Aetat in this type of recruitment, they are welcome to do so. When it comes to opening up the labour market for unskilled workers, I think there may be reason to have some greater restraint. Although some enterprises may currently have problems recruiting unskilled workers, unskilled workers are clearly more vulnerable to becoming unemployed or marginalised on the labour market. In addition — and this is at least equally important — many of those who are long-term unemployed today have little education. I think it is important to contribute to these coming to work. In this context, a tight labour market is a positive framework condition. Aetat’s instruments are largely aimed at providing this group with the necessary skills. It is also a point that many of the refugees and asylum seekers have weak formal qualifications. It is a key task of the Government to contribute to their integration into the labour market. And you can wonder, when it's so hard to get refugees rehabilitated, when it's so hard for employers to take in this type of labour, which goes free, if the real need for unskilled labour is as great as some people want to produce it. The government wants to make applying for a work permit easier. I like the fact that there is so much agreement about this in the setting. A change in this area is fully in line with the Government's work of making simpler and more efficient management. A short time ago, the Minister of Local Affairs and I presented a number of proposals which, in sum, represent significant simplification. Among these proposals, I think two in particular are important. It concerns the extension of the right to apply for a work permit for persons residing in Norway and the establishment of a quota for skilled workers which may be granted a work permit by a simplified procedure. Such an allowance will be determined on the basis of the labour market situation and after consultation. It makes the work of granting each permit considerably easier. I believe it is important to allow those recruited to be fully integrated into the labour market. They shall enjoy the same rights as other workers. They should also have a reasonable opportunity to find alternative work in Norway if they lose work or want to change jobs. I am therefore not in favour of the Right's proposal that the work permit be given to the employer. In my view, such a scheme will easily put workers in a very unfortunate relationship with the individual employer, and will in many ways mean a use and caste mentality especially in the case of unskilled workers from abroad. I see the Committee's comments and this debate today as a sign of a more nuanced picture of immigration. In recent years, Norway has evolved in a multicultural direction. This is a demanding process, as it means that in some contexts, questions are asked about how prejudice-free we really are. I interpret the positive reception of the Government's proposal as a sign that there is a broad political consensus that we should continue to develop our society in a multicultural direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e709	A little bit to the numbers that have been discussed. So it's approx. 8 000 people with ethnic, non-Norwegian background, available in Norway. The need for labour only to maintain the labour force is estimated to be approx. 10 000 p.a. years. There's a lot we can do, for example. to mobilise the labour force we already have in Norway, but it is not certain that that group is really as large as it sounds. Because even though it is said that there are three times as high unemployment among immigrants in Norway as among the Nordics, we still have unemployment there, which is about 10-12 pst. of the group. Most of them are at work. We have 55,000 normal working people with backgrounds from other ethnic cultures, and we don't have to make an image in our head that they don't get a job in Norway all the time. I react very much to the exact picture, which I now thought Kosmo was on the way in. So the question that goes on some of the reasons why we're concerned with unskilled people. Some of the sectors that are screaming for labour today and that are in a situation where they have problems with higher wage costs – as we have pointed out in our remarks – are among others. tourism and fish processing. Both of them are in and separately the rescue of District Norway and are part of a lot of other plans. When we had our open hearing, Odd Erik Martinsen from Aeat said the following about the need in the fishing industry: ‘We all regret that it is difficult in a strict labour market to be able to pass on labour to the industry when young people have the opportunity to choose another job.’ Aetat itself has actually recommended that you go out and ask for the desired unskilled labour force. Why does the Council of State not see that the recommendation from our own authority is also moving in our direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e726	Yes, how much is the need, how much is the potential? I do not appreciate that there is a need for 10,000 new people through increased labour mobility per year. years. I don't like that number. I hear it's being used, but it doesn't come from my department. So you can ask the question, what is the potential that we have in Norway? We have about 15,000 long-term unemployed. The 15 000 are – as far as I know – healthy and able to take assigned work. It is clear that there are problems in terms of mobility. Many of these have spouses, many have children — it is clear that they cannot travel anywhere, at any time, on short jobs. But we have to admit that it also has something to do with the conditions offered by employers in order to take such jobs. In addition, we have 55,000 disabled people who have no greater desire than to get permanent work. And if we can get a combination of actions at the individual workplace, where the employer actually takes responsibility for both skills enhancement and equipment, and the public takes greater responsibility for transport, there are quite a few thousand of these who can do a 100 pst. job, even if they have a physical disability. In addition, we have a huge potential among the disabled and retired. I'm just saying that if we and work will, the potential for the labour force reserve is great. Then I have registered what has been said about fishing and travel, and therefore we are also willing to join in recruiting unskilled workers, but in an orderly way – not at the employer's premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e737	The centre party is in the plurality that thinks that increasing labour migration should be a supplement. We share with the Council of State Kosmo's latest statement here that in some areas opening must also be provided for unskilled workers, but in order of course. We also share the opinion of the Council of State that Norway now has a unique opportunity to include more people in the labour market. The long-term programme, point 5.4.1 ‘Including working life’, has done much better for action. I would like to challenge the Council of State to answer two questions: firstly, when will a specific person be able to experience changes in the areas that have been most common today, especially in the case of disabled people, the long-term unemployed and the reserve that is among immigrants? When will changes occur? My second point concerns older workers. We're starting to have someone come up at an age that means we don't want to use that idea. What the government will do in the area for those who are plus/minus 60 years, beyond allowing $5 million. kr to Center for Senior Planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e748	At the hearing, we have sent a draft new legislation within the labour market set which is subject to significant simplifications, but which also involves considerably greater flexibility in the use of the labour market measures we have, for example. increasing the use of wage subsidies at a stage in bringing people into sustainable working conditions. As soon as the consultation round for these amendments is completed, it will be possible to implement them. It shall be possible to do so without making any changes to the law. In addition to that, in the context of the budget for next year, we will seek to add up to a more active and creative use of the funds, in line with the discussions that have been here in the Stortinget in the past. In addition, it is quite clear that the work to be followed as a result of the Sandman Committee's suspension will help us to achieve greater and better cooperation in the labour market between the employees and the employers' side, because according to the Sandman Committee, the employer will have a greater responsibility for the long-term sick also during the sick pay period, so that we do not have to push so many out. The last thing I want to say is that there's also a question of appropriations. There is, of course, a question of how large labour market action appropriations the Storting will give. Because it is clear that for a number of these people there is a need for active action. We wrote in the budget for the current year, and we will repeat this in next year's budget, that a greater part of the labour market measures that are being implemented must increase competence in order to get long-term unemployed, social clients and immigrant groups to work. This job will be targeted with. The last point I want to mention is that I hope for a good result in the reform of continuing education and training in order to increase the competence of those who are currently lacking competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e759	Kosmo State Council has a very high rhetorical profile in helping those who are out of work and those with disabilities. But I have to say, unfortunately, that I do not feel any particular pressure from the Minister of Labour when it comes to making new, good proposals to get the 58 000 disabled or the 12,000 long-term unemployed, whom he mentions in his post, either into active empowerment or into work. A special measure, which is one of my heart children, is called Revita. It is a maritime aid project that the Committee has tried to hold its hand over. It gets people into work, creates jobs and businesses, and gets people into education. I notice that, despite many calls, the Council of State will not cross two sticks to save such a measure, which has a very high efficiency in helping people who are dissatisfied, who are unemployed or who are receiving social assistance. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on this. Another challenge I think the Council of State should get as a minister of modernisation is: When are we going to get rid of the rebus race? For many of those who are unemployed and who need help from both social services, social services and the labour market, now run from office to office. So here you're going to have to do a grip that goes on a contraction to get this done. Finally, employment and employment are important for recruiting and maintaining people. This is the Council of State and I agree. Then we also need to look at the major public sector needs documented in the government's own documents, for example. in the case of a Community economic proposal, showing the need for a location between 50000 and 70000 new employees over the next 10 years. What kind of wage and employers policy does the Council of State think is necessary in order to manage the recruitment and retention of these peoples, when the Council of State is aware that wages are an important recruitment tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e770	I hope that at least in Stortinget there is some understanding that I do not have the opportunity – although I am never so much the Council of State – to instruct neither my office nor the labour market seat to pay money in violation of the applicable legislation. If you think that the legislation is wrong, you actually have to change the legislation first through the natural processes that are going to take place, and then, as a consequence, you will be able to implement new policies. There's some of the problems associated with Revita. But what I have written to Revita is: can you not be so kind as to contact the local labour market seat, so that you can have a system that allows you to use the system within the existing legislation? Then we're going to be willing to do what we can to help this project, which I also think is good. Then I have to ask for an understanding – especially since the tariffs in the municipalities are a relationship between the employees in the municipalities and those who are employers in the municipalities – that I should not stand here from Stortingen’s pulpit and premise for what will be the result of the tariff negotiations in the municipal sector. However, I dare say that whether it concerns low pay in the care professions in the municipalities or low pay in particularly resource-intensive industries — for example. in travel, hotel, restaurant, fish processing, etc. – there is a perfectly obvious link between pay and working conditions and the possibility of recruiting people. It is a relationship that employers in these sectors, first and foremost, need to take note of the future wage and labour policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e782	This strange proposal by the Right would in practice mean free labour immigration to Norway, which, of course, makes it impossible for the Progress Party to support it. Of all things, the Right proposes that companies be able to grant work permits and that their borders be opened up to large groups, both skilled and unskilled, from all over the world. The consequences, if not rejected by the majority, of the very wide-ranging proposals on labour immigration, had become a significant pressure for immigration in Norway, which had probably far exceeded the real future needs of the country for more labour. Then it's far more reasonable to look at completely different solutions than those proposed here. Today, Norway has a workforce of 2,350 000 people, i.e. 73 p.m., aged 16 to 74. They are active to varying degrees. This is a very high degree of participation in the population at international level. If this large workforce were optimally used, the problems of labour shortages would be much less. In 2000, the average was higher than 180,000 jobseekers — a total of — in Norway. These were divided into 62,000 full-time workers, 35,000 part-time workers, 11,000 measures, 14,000 other ordinary job seekers and over 57,000 job-seekers. We also know that 57 pst. by women, working full-time. Had 90 pst. Of them, working full time, as men, they had represented 300,000 new annual works. And many of these would like to work more. In 2000, a total of 580,000 Norwegians — men and women — were part-time employees, and 67 000 were under-employed. This represents a significant labour potential. In addition, Norway is among the countries in Europe with the highest rates of sick leave. 200,000 are away from work at any time. Something has to be done here, because we can't afford this. Furthermore, we have too many laws and regulations that give life the right to an excessive public bureaucracy, which thus represents non-value-making and unproductive annual works – labour which should have been used in more important areas of society. Furthermore, agricultural and rural policies generate an overemployment of dimensions in parts of the primary industries. A lot of valuable labour can be freed here. Sky-high tax on labour income does not in any way stimulate additional labour input. We therefore need a political awareness that a greater proportion of the workforce must be transferred to value-creating and productive activities, rather than to be in bureaucracy or subsidized industries. Finally, it is also the case that continuous technological advances and automation of production companies help to free up labour – to the service industries, which represent the new jobs in the future. The right-hand proposal is nothing but a derailment, as the party looks short-sightedly blind to the urgent need for labour in parts of the economy. They therefore disregard all other societal and negative consequences that the liberalisation of immigration policy can have. At that time, the Right Standing Mothers will also be left alone with their eye-catching – one might say, from that edge – proposals to open up to, in reality, free labour immigration to Norway. Another final point is that this proposal by the Right does not deserve to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e801	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e804	I would first like to comment on the exchange of lines which was now between Kosmo and Karin Andersen, and which was the business of Revita Drammen. The council itself said that he meant this was a good project, but that it was a project that, in the form it has today, did not come under the legislation that is. I would like to remind the Council of State that there is a large number of people who want to take care of that type of enterprise, based on a situation that is actually an example of the fact that one with slightly more flexible use of labour market resources can get results even more included in work. Revita Drammen has shown that they can get more work. And if the legislation is not satisfactory today, the Council of State, if he uses his right of initiative to change the legislation so that these types of companies have the right to life, can know in advance that he has the majority of the population. And I want to encourage him to use that right of initiative and make a change, if necessary to the Storting, or if necessary by other means, through a regulation. He's got the Storting behind him, but it's urgent! Then we can see that we will have a softening in the field of labour immigration in our own country. There are some promise changes that will take a long time, as it is today. The government has the support of the Center Party for what they are currently notifying here of the emulations that they may carry out on their own. I would also like to stress that the Government has the Centre's support for a stronger commitment than what we have heard today, to exploit the unique opportunity that is available to secure even more unemployed job-seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e815	To the issue of Revita: I want to remind the Council of State that this is one of the examples of why some of us felt the need to propose a large pilot project that would just enable such measures that were between different legislation and had different target groups in relation to how the legislation was designed, but which could nevertheless have good results, to work. It is the experience of these things that has led a majority of the Stortinge to decide to have such a pilot project. I just want to support what the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said, that the bulk of the population wants Revita to be maintained. We want to find a way to solve it. I understand that the Council of State has to do so through any legislative changes or through, for example, to advance the pilot project adopted by the Stortinget, which may thus receive Revita. There is a system where it can be properly evaluated, not only in relation to the objectives of the different actions, but in terms of the actual benefits of this project overall. So until the answer Kosmo gave me, which I was a little surprised at. The council told him to take care of things when it came to the needs of the tourism industry and the fish processing industry for labour, but it had to be in tidy forms. Then I want to challenge the Council of State to tell me specifically what he intends to do that is not just based on the seasonal labour legislation. So it's not just about seasonal workers, but permanent labour, many of the places where they have problems getting Norwegians who want to work. I have to admit that I am not quite sure if the Progress Party in this matter is worth commenting on, because I think that both Torbjørn Andersen's posts and Carl I. Hagen's posts were descriptive enough in themselves. They do not really want labour immigration, and the labour they want is the labour force, the means of production in terms of work, which will be allowed to come to Norway, especially if the means of production do not have any education. Then it will be allowed to come to Norway for a maximum of three years and work, without having any family, and then it will go out again after three years. To me, it's the most cynical attitude of all you can have in relation to how you perceive people. And then they accuse us of being short-sighted and cynical! We're taking this seriously. We say, "If we're going to be able to meet the needs we think we have for labour, we're going to have to do it in a decent way." We also want it in neat forms, and we want control mechanisms related to how it works. And actually, our model will be expensive for businesses, because it is required that they take responsibility for housing, and proper housing. They are also required to take responsibility for Norwegian training and ensure that they know such things. This is not a cheap sale of labour. In fact, enterprises will have relatively high costs of choosing unskilled or skilled workers according to our model.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e826	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e830	It was a sentence that disappeared for me in my previous post, but I feel the need to underline it. It is true that the smoothdown message presented two years ago provides a range of measures for a more inclusive working life and a softer work line. It's a reinforcement and a follow-up of the points we in the Center Party think it's urgent, and we're giving our full support to. There were some good projects started last year; there were others now this year, to great joy and great benefit for those who will be covered by them. We have a great desire for even more people to be included in these good actions and, in some cases, experienced a more inclusive working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e837	The tourism industry and the fishing industry need a combination of seasonal workers and perhaps – I might say – some permanent labour force. If it is the case that the tourism industry has a strong need for permanent labour and wants to recruit it from abroad, they will only be applied for. But I have to say that I find it inconvenient that we have travel businesses who refuse to take in immigrant women because they are wearing dryers. Then the authorities get into some kind of problem. Should we accept such unacceptable attitudes to immigrant women and then allow companies to recruit labour from abroad? No, we can't. That is why I say that we must have this under control, but we should not be unwilling to help and help to obtain unskilled labour from abroad if the companies prove a need for it. Then I want to say yes, I hear what you say in relation to the intense interest in getting the labour potential we have into work. It has not been long since the budgetary procedure in the autumn, when the labour market budget was further cut by 20 million. kr. There weren't so many parties here on Stortinget that worked to make that budget bigger. After all, it has a connection with the resources we have, both on the action side and administratively, and the legislation we have, how much work it is possible to do. However, we will ensure that in the next year's budget there will be an increased profile of earmarking of funds that will lead to active employment opportunities for disabled people, migrant groups and social clients. Then I hope, with all the good I have heard here today, that we will have the Storting's support – on a broad front – for all these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e844	To the end, I can give Kosmo a reply immediately: Yes, SV is ready for it, and has had such suggestions for a long time, because we actually trust what the Government writes in its propositions, that it is putting more effort into this and will get more people to work. That's why we think it's both important and correct. And the call must go back to the Government, that the sea shows initiative and makes proposals that are offensive, more offensive than today. Because it's kind of solved when you say this is very important and correct, and here it's going to be more money, but when the budget comes, it's a little too little to fully prove that you think this works. So to this one example of a labour market measure or a maritime aid project that has been used. It's both a symbol and an example. There are many such measures. The point is that we lack a commitment from the Council of States to protect the measures that work — their diversity. In the time I've been to Stortinget and worked on this, I've wanted to have a very open and little discriminatory attitude towards the different policymakers, but I'm sorry to say that Aetat has had a very selective attitude towards who they wanted to work with. Such projects have a different philosophy, and a philosophy that seems to succeed. That's also what the majority in the committee said, that here we actually think that Aetat has a lot to learn from that way of working. They work differently from the legislation on which the Government and the Ministry have been so hard pressed to implement, namely this slightly more commercial operation where you have to out and sell services to finance yourself. If you look at the results, you'll see that you get an incredible amount of money back here. These aren't just people coming to work, but they're business start-ups, and they last. What I am surprised about is that neither municipalities nor the Council of State – nor the NHO for that part, which should be concerned with business start-ups, or LO – hold their hand over this, because the numbers speak their very clear language. I would once again encourage the Council of State to look and take care of these small, good measures too, because they are so incredibly important to those who get help there. A great many of those who have received help there are people who are dissatisfied, and in Aeta's other measures it becomes very impossible as the legislation is. Such legislation is around the fact that if you are starting a business, you have to go straight into a dedicated job if you get it. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]] It will destroy this concept. I hope the council has noticed this heartchild and is willing to take a look at the legislation. –
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e851	Now the President has to deal with the Storting Code. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2526]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e867	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e883	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e897	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e911	VAT in training studios has been widely discussed for many months, and many views from different political parties have also been presented in this context. The majority of the Financial Committee considers that it is not appropriate to consider the substance of this Document No. The 8-proposal as long as the government is already required to come back to Stortinget with an assessment equal to the one addressed here. The majority also say that it is natural for the Government to come back with such a review in the context of the revised national budget, which the Government then also confirms in draft regulations related to the VAT reform, which has been submitted today. So as far as we can register from the majority, here we have a discussion of the matter regardless of this Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e918	On behalf of the proposers, I would like to congratulate them on the outcome of the case. As far as I understand of non-parliamentary documents, everyone now agrees on what you vote for. For the sake of order, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if it is right, as the press has said, that the Ministry of Finance has decided not to include the health studio and the training centre in the reform of services. It could have been helpful to know, given that the matter is now to be dealt with in Stortinget. Perhaps, based on some respect for the Storting, it could have been good to know if the decision has been taken de facto, as it has been shown in press reports. I would also like to be allowed to address a question to the rapporteur, the representative of the party which, among other things, is. provides for the majority of the Government's line in the VAT case, whether it is in such a way that the Central Party, by its parliamentary chairman and chairman, has no idea of the issue, in other words whether it has been delegated to the Government under the budgetary agreement. It is true that there are a number of people outside this room who sometimes have an interest in what politicians think – relatively legitimately also – and I would therefore like to address questions to the central parties, the rapporteur, whether they have delegated their opinion to the Government, or whether it is possible to express an opinion in the course of the case now, taking into account that, after all, you should vote on the proposal. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e929	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e932	We live in a wonderful world, and it doesn't get any less wonderful when you get into this house. One of the things that's not so amazing is that the Storting is worried that people are getting too little, that the weight is getting bigger, and that people are generally getting worse. Studies on this are carried out. The last thing I heard was that the average weight had increased by a few kilograms in recent years. In order to remedy this situation, there have been considerable debates in this Chamber. Numerous action plans have been developed on how people should improve their health through sport, trimming and other activities. There have been awareness campaigns, both in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, teams and associations. Municipalities and county councils have also participated actively to train people and thereby improve their own health. A great deal of money has been spent and considerable public and voluntary efforts have been made to achieve this goal. Then the Workers' Party and the Centres find out that this must be charged. VAT is to be introduced, i.e. fee, in training studios. So there's going to be a fee on training. So after spending millions of dollars through grants and awareness-raising work to train people, you have to charge for training. This is high-level logic. After the Workers' Party and the Centre's discussions and serious and thoughtful assessments, which they accuse the Advance Party of never having, have come to light that the training studio fee is the right one. But after all these serious assessments, halvorsbøle leaks say they've changed their mind and turned around. Training studios should be exempted from VAT. Of course, I am not going to argue with a thick pen that this is right, but experience shows that budget leakages that are positive are usually correct. The working party and the centre parties have obviously ended up in the same position that we in the Progress Party spent a quarter of a quarter trying to figure out was the right thing to do. The same thing happened with the short-term fee. When they realized that it was going to seem just as the Progress Party warned against, they were quick to turn around. I agree that there is no shame in turning around, and that it was better that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties understood that what they were doing was wrong, but why couldn't they listen to the Progress Party and do it right away? It is regrettable that in the wake of all the deeply concentrated and serious assessments that are clearly behind the introduction of VAT on services, there are far more losers. This is unfortunately just the top of the iceberg. For now, people living in District Norway – those who travel to Bodø from an island to go on the tivioli with the kids a weekend – are going to pay 24 pst. more in the fee of the Tifoli ticket, while those who, on the other hand, live near Oslo or Kristiansand, with the blessing of the Centre Party, can go to the amusement park without paying any VAT. If you are a member of the boat association, you do not have to pay VAT. On the other hand, if you are at a private boating site, you have to pay 24 pst. in fees. Young people who are currently struggling with sky-high hourly rates for driving to a certificate – a certificate that today costs $100,000 – get a surcharge of 24 p.m., so that the price rises to $12,400, while driving training in the direction of the schoolwork is free – all this because the Labour Party and the Centre parties have been in deep-seated and serious negotiations, while we unprofessionally did not participate. But fortunately, we did not interfere with our proposals, for our proposals are finished thinking before they are promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e951	The signals given by me and others in the case of VAT imposed at the training studio are not a reverse operation at all. The readers will see that it is clear that the revised national budget and the preparation of regulations in several areas of the VAT system are to be assessed. Of course, that does not mean that we feel obliged or need to vote for a Document No in any way. 8 proposals that come from the Right or from the other party, when there is a process in progress where things are to be seen in context. It is also announced here that you will come back to the question at a later stage. This will be taken into consideration by us at a later stage, and then in good time before VAT will be introduced in the various fields of service. The representative Foss will then receive an answer as to how we deal with the specific issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e956	I have also recorded that it is said in the press that the issue of VAT on services should have been a topic at the Government Budget Conference on Halvorsbøle. I was known to be present there, and I did not record any such debate. During the examination of the VAT reform, a majority of the Committee on Budgets commented on the following comments: ‘These members assume that demarcation problems may arise between different types of organisations and businesses offering access to the same type of premises, e.g.: swimming facilities, tennis courts, training studios, etc. and, therefore, that sports teams will often compete with other actors. In this context, these members will ask the Ministry to assess further limitations and any additional VAT exemption for sporting activities and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ That is the starting point for the ministry's work. We will come back to these issues in the revised national budget, as also stated in the consultation note that has expired today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e970	The Minister of Finance now did well to return to the assessment of VAT on training studio services in connection with the revised national budget. What got me to take the floor was the representative Kenneth Svendsen, who spoke very warmly about physical activity as a health measure and preventive activity. I totally agree with him. In this debate, however, it is possible to make a claim that someone has proposed VAT on training, and that was also an expression used by the representative Svendsen. I have not registered that someone has done so. As far as I know, it's very free to train and use its body, whether it's on the floor floor at home or out in the woods and fields. Far less is it subject to taxation or VAT. It never seems to us that non-profit organization which facilitates sports activity should be subject to tax or VAT. But when someone makes services to the hall, when someone puts equipment at the disposal of rent, one in a way has commercialized an enterprise. A service that sells a line to the same service with many other services. That is in the context of the introduction of VAT. So one would like to say that there might be health problems and wrongs. It's an advantage that people go to the gym and get it cheap. Yes, it can now certainly be discussed, but then we're going into a fundamental discussion about whether we're going to use the VAT system to govern behavior in this society. There are a lot of services that are now going to be subject to VAT, which can be healthy things for people to be involved in and buy. However, this is a source of income that we have concluded we want, and we are now expanding the VAT measures to cover services. There may also be a lot of things like that. Some goods are healthy to eat and wear, and some are unhealthy. But if we're going to go into a thinking where we're going to start to differentiate, we're going to use the charging system to control a behavior. It might be, but it's a whole new thinking. This is a fiscal income for the state and, above all, it. My main conclusion is what I started with: it's not about having VAT on training. This is about VAT on the commercialisation of a service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e985	I first asked a question to the President of the Central Party, who is the rapporteur on the matter, whether the centre party or the centre parties have a position on the question of whether VAT should be applied to training studios. I had some sort of suspicion that the position was delegated to the Government, and was confirmed on the grounds that there is a process going on in the Government. If there are processes going on in other places that I'm not familiar with, it would be interesting, but as far as I can read the documents, it's the government that evaluates what it wants to come to from positions. For the time being, the Centre Party has delegated its position to the Government. It's interesting to confirm. I will not comment on the last article. I understood the point. I know my co-representatives so much that I know it's free to take a jog tour in Stortinget's break both to Ullevålster and elsewhere. Whether it's healthy, I'll leave it in this context, but I understand that it's free of charge and free of VAT. But that the limit is that if you are offered to buy healthcare, and this business becomes commercial – that it really should be the limit – I have to say that then I think the representative is on the wrong track. There's nothing wrong with a sports team being as commercial as it is. To replicate to the representative: What would have happened if the Norwegian Sports Association had bought the training chain SATS and perhaps earned money on it too, at least in the long term? I know of significant sports activities in the clubhouse that are the most commercial business, and I also know that there are some of those that can now be assumed to be subject to VAT by these health studios, which are partly perhaps also under private ownership, and which do not actually make five ears. There is no reason to be exempted from VAT. You can go bankrupt on VAT, but it won't help if you're never so small a commercial. So that boundary is not a reality in the VAT system. But it would be interesting if the Workers' Party went into this, so that activities approaching the bankruptcy limit would be exempt from VAT, as I understood from the statements made by the representative. Moreover, I note that the council of the State of Stortinget has said that everything that has been written in the newspaper that the government has made a decision in relation to VAT in training studios and health studios is wrong. I understood that there was a reference to such decisions not being made on Halvorsbøle, but my question was in general, whether the government has an opinion at this time the Storting is dealing with the matter, or whether it does not have it. I perceived the answer so that the government does not have an opinion on this question now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e994	What made me ask for the floor was the interesting little debate between the representatives Svendsen and Rudihagen. Sir. The Swedes pointed out that one of the major public health problems in today’s Norway is that the average weight of the population in all classes of the year increases at risk. It can be clarified. In the last three years, Norwegian people have become exactly three kilograms heavier — each. [[Laughter]] The representative Rudihagen replied, if I understood correctly, that he basically thinks it's wrong to use the charging policy to change people's behaviour. But now part of the budget agreement concluded by the Government and the central parties in the autumn, which is known to reduce VAT to half of food. It must be assumed that it has a certain effect on people's behaviour, and that at least that effect does not go in the direction of dampening the said increase in weight to a significant extent. So I have some problems understanding the logic of Mr. Rudihagen’s reasoning. For this is precisely this peculiar link: in a situation where the public health challenge is precisely that an increasing proportion of the population suffers from overweight, it is found that the appropriate answer to this is to lower the food tax to half and introduce full VAT in training studios. If there's a deeper wisdom behind this from the budget mates' side, I would appreciate getting ready for it, because it must be very deep.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1003	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1011	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1018	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Left proposals No. 4-7, by Mr Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1034	A brief explanation of vote. It concerns the setting III. I would recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left vote in favour of this when proposal No. 2 from us falls. We therefore think that we can subsidize III. We will also support IV. We're voting against V.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1041	The President will ask whether this also applies to the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1044	Yes, the same reasoning as Mr. Lyngstad applied in the case of subsidiary voting, also applies to the Right, so I recommend the Right Group to vote in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1049	With this clarification, we begin by raising to voting proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to launch an investigation on the basis of which: a unified church economy in which responsibility is placed at one level in order to strengthen the democratic people's religion – the participation in church elections must be in line with other Nordic countries.To clarify the role of the church as a cultural institution and how the church is to be influenced locally by openness and accessibility so that the church can discharge its responsibility for training and diaconal work.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1071	Proposals Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7, from the Advance Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals so that the return on the total portfolio of the Information Society Fund follows common rules for the definition of returns. The return shall be primarily intended to secure the wealth contained in the church's historical building stock and furniture.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the information society’s fund is subject to a rebalancing of the basic capital.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification describing the state of disposal of the fund’s total properties and the obstacles that have led to unreasonable use of time.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes so as to put an end to the obligation of residence of the benefit provider and to give the municipality responsibility for making suitable housing available.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1102	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose appropriations for church buildings of protection in the State budget for 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1116	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Left Party, are taken up to vote. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an investigation with different models of uniform church funding. The investigation must be carried out at the same time as the Bakkevig Committee of the Council of Churches.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «By the end of 2002, the Government asks the Stortinget to present to it its own case of the restoration and future preservation of our protected church buildings as a central part of our national cultural heritage. It is assumed that different models of how the State can take responsibility for this are investigated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1144	The President assumes that the Labour Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1186	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1218	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary amendments to the Training Act and to the Law on Technical Colleges in which responsibility for vocational education and training offers is shared between secondary education, vocational schools and colleges. Technical vocational school shall continue to be a municipal responsibility.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1239	The proposals of the Progress Party are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a financing model for technical colleges based on independent units which receive their income calculated from the number of students.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to draw up a financing model for private operators according to the Berggemeinung NOU 2000:5.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that existing technical school offers are maintained at least today’s level pending the establishment of up-to-date legislation, new financing arrangements and other new administrative structures. It is assumed that, in the context of the revised national budget and the ordinary annual budget, proposals for additional appropriations are made to cover the additional expenditure of the counties in this field.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1277	The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1304	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1307	We had a relatively short debate on this matter, and for that reason I would like to make the proposals for transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1312	That means that the proposals of the Socialist Left have been turned into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 shall then read as follows: ‘The Government is advised to change the content of the 4th year of pre-school teacher training and to open it as soon as possible to experiment with, for example, a model with 10 weights of practical pedagogy for the small school and 10 weights for the small school stage.’ Proposal No. 2 is replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government design a teacher training course with greater freedom for the individual student to choose a course and professional immersion. From autumn 2001, higher education institutions will be given the opportunity to test different models with greater freedom of choice.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1341	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 4, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Mrs Solberg has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1356	Right doesn't necessarily agree that numbers should be set on how many to get, but beyond that, we agree with the trend in the Left's proposal. And based on the debate we have had, which has shown that there is a need to establish a clear signal to the Government on the further development of labour immigration, we will support the proposal from the Left, although it has a slightly different tone layer on some points than what our original proposal had.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1361	I would urge the Christian People's Party to vote against the proposal No. 1-3, and for the proposal from the Left, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1366	I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote against the Right-wing proposal and vote against proposal No. Four, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1371	I would urge the SV Group to vote in favour of the vote, against the proposal of the Right and the Left, and for the proposal of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1376	I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1381	I would recommend the Group of the Centre to vote in favour of the option and against the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party. When it comes to the proposal from the Left, it is distributed today. In the debate, we have explained why we believe that the reserve of labour is greater than what often appears. I therefore propose that the Group of the European Centre for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions vote against proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1388	The President will show that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the matters on the current map have been resolved. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1391	I discovered that it was necessary to say something after the debate. And it's that I want to ask that the voting on the Right two proposals be split up, so that we can vote against proposal No. 1 but for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1396	The President shall attempt to comply with the request. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of practical proposals for labour immigration from outside the EEA territory of up to 10000 persons per year. The proposals shall ensure skilled and unskilled labour, where necessary in different sectors and activities, and in different parts of the country. These measures shall be based on the fact that those who come here have social rights and obligations similar to those of the others in Norway. The schemes shall be cyclically independent and may also provide a basis for permanent residence. The arrangements shall be transparent, both for those concerned and for the establishments concerned. The aim is to obtain rapid results to cover key welfare and value-added tasks in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1412	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up rules that reverse the principle that non-residents initially do not have access to move to Norway and take up work here, so that anyone who is guaranteed permanent work, maintenance and housing is granted a work permit according to today’s rules. For the authorisation of workers from non-EEA countries, it is assumed that the employer can prove that he has applied for labour in the Norway/EEA region.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1426	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to draw up a simplified application procedure for immigration into the labour market which allows employers to grant work permits if the conditions laid down in the law are fulfilled.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e1440	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:4 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e2416	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 22 March 2001: «The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on the social security system § 10-7 in such a way that the employer's share of 1⁄2 G in the organisation of workplace conditions for disabled persons is abolished.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e2444	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: 'The Grand Government asks the Government immediately to submit proposals for amendment to the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax so that all turnover related to sporting activities is exempt from VAT.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-29-2.ana.ud403e2470	Unit is deleted.
