ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e35	Honourable co-representatives! The former staging representatives Odd Steinar Holos, Andreas Wormdal and Gudmund Gryøhr have died. Former P.O.D. Odd Steinar Holos is dead, 79 years old. Odd Holos was born in Rakkestad on April 8, 1922. With him, one of the veterans of the Christian People's Party has gone away. He was involved in forming the party in Rakkestad after the war and eventually became active for the Christian People's Party at all levels of politics. He was a municipal board member in Rakkestad for twelve years from 1955 and again from 1979 to 1983. He was also chairman of the municipality in 1956–67. In the three weeks of the Lyng government sitting at the rudder in 1963, he was State Secretary at the Ministry of Social Affairs of Kjell Bondevik. As early as 1966, he met for the first time as an alternate for Eastfold at Stortinget. Later he met several times, the longest period of the year Lars Korvald was prime minister, from October 1972 to October 1973. During that period, he was a member of the Justice Committee. Otherwise he met regularly at Stortinget until he was elected as a permanent representative in 1981. During the two periods he was a permanent representative, from 1981 to 1989, he was a member of the Social Committee and the Social Political Spokesman of the Christian People's Party in the Stortinget. This was a matter he had very good insight into after working as a social manager in the municipality of Rakkestad since 1964. He spoke about the case of the weak groups and the work of the Stortingen to improve the care of the elderly and the living conditions of the disabled. The abstinence and drug abusers were also close to his heart. As the rapporteur for the 1989 social security report, he was able to bring together a broad majority of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the proposals that were promoted. Odd Holos was also strongly involved in the community in ways other than the policy, and work, among other things. A time as editor in Rakkestad Avis. He was an active associate in the Christian work in Rakkestad. Many associations have had good help and benefit from his writing and warm commitment to volunteering. Also in the Stortinget he spoke Eastfold's case. Odd Holös saw the importance of having a well-functioning party organization both locally and at county level, and he did a great deal of work in this area as well. Odd Holos was an amusing and pleasant person with a moody sense of humor and a big heart. He made a tremendous effort for the party he devoted so much of his time and strength to. He made many friends both inside and outside the Christian People's Party in the years he had worked in the Storting. Former PAC Andreas Wormdal is dead, probably 90 years old. Andreas Wormdal was born on 20 January 1911 in Trondheim, but grew up in Orkanger. He took the middle school degree at Trondheim Cathedral School in 1927, and later the LO School in Sørmarka. Wormdal was a typical representative of the self-educated politicians who had a broad professional experience. He came as so many of his generation early out into work, and was among other things. seafarer, works, smelting works and subsequently employed by the municipal administration. Andreas Wormdal was elected to the Stortinget in 1958 as a representative of the Workers' Party in the South-Trøndelag. During the three periods he spent on the Storting, he was a member of the Military Committee, the Social Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. He was also a member of the Governing Board of the Norwegian Interparliamentary Union, a member of the UN General Assembly and a member of the Governing Board of the Norwegian State Railways. Wormdal's versatile background made him a representative with a broad field of interest; social policy, foreign affairs, and when defence issues were on the agenda, he was known as an eager debater. He also had a reputation as a capable spokesman when it came to the interests of the home state. Andreas Wormdal became early political conscious. He joined the Norwegian Workers' Party at the age of 17 in 1928. He held a wide range of trusts both in the youth movement, the trade union and the party. Among other things, he was chairman of the municipal party and a member of the municipal board for several years. For twelve years from 1946, Wormdal was Secretary and Managing Director of the Sør-Trøndelag Arbeiderparti and Trondheim Forente Arbeiderparti. Wormdal became a well-known man in the tranny labour movement. As party secretary, he was dynamic and willful and engaged in extensive organisational and educational work. Finally, I will mention his commitment to care for the mentally retarded. He was the chairman of the board of Klebu public shelter and was the state representative in the administration of the Højtun anti-squamble home. He completed his professional career as Chief of Economics at E.C. Dahl Foundation in Trondheim. Former representative Gudmund Gryøhr is dead, 81 years old. Gudmund Gryørr was born on 15 July 1920 in Leiranger, Northland. He was a permanent representative of the Workers' Party in Northern Ireland from 1977 to 1981, but had met as an alternate from 1958 onwards. During the years he was an alternate, he gained experience from various committees. During the period he was a permanent representative, he was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee. He was also a member of the Odelstinget and an alternate to the UN General Assembly. He was a skilled spokesperson for Nordland's affairs, and with his professional background as a farmer, it was quite natural for him to take a special interest in agricultural policy, and he also took a good interest in this part of the policy. Gudmund Gryøhr took middle school exams in 1937 and socialist evening school a few years after the war. Before he fell down as a farmer on his own farm in Leinesfjord, Northland in 1951, he worked both as an officeist in the municipality of South Varanger and for a few years as an industrial and forestry worker. Already in 1935 he joined the Workers' Party, and in the spring of 2000 he was honoured by the Steigen Arbeiderpartei for his 65-year-old membership. He began his political career as Chairman of the AUL of the Churches in the war year 1945. He was an active member of the Workers' Party every year and had a lot of trust. He was a member of Leiranger Municipal Government and Steigen Municipal Government and Presidencies from 1955 until 1979, and also the head of the municipal party. In addition, Gudmund Gryøhr held office as a member and chairman of the Nordland County Agricultural Board for 20 years, a member of the Nordland Labour Council, the Salt Regional Planning Council and the State Agricultural Bank Department in Tromsø. He completed his political career by two years as district secretary in the Nordland Workers Party, from 1981 to 1983. Gudmund Gryøhr is characterised as a lukewarm, balanced, work-related, accurate, duty-fulfilling and immense loyal representative who enjoyed great respect among his co-representatives. – “We can trust him Gudmund”, was upset. We remember Odd Steinar Holos, Andreas Wormdal and Gudmund Gryør with deep respect and gratitude and brightens peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e101	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e106	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e111	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e119	The representative Steinar Bastisen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e123	I would like to make proposals to reintroduce Norwegian border control against Schengen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e128	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e131	I allow myself to put forward proposals for regulatory adaptations so that the approval of group formations in financial institutions may also include a subsidiary having external minority owners who are not financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e136	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. After a conference with the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate be organised as follows: 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e163	The debate shall be held over two days with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 10 minutes, excluding line chords and 3-minute inserts. The number time is allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 110 minutes, Right 95 minutes, Progress Party 65 minutes, Socialist Left Party 60 minutes, Christian People's Party 55 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes and Left and Coast Party 10 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed to allow access to a sequence shift of up to five lines with replies following the insertion of the main speakers of the party groups and the Prime Minister and three lines with replies after speakers of 10 minutes or more and after the submissions of the Councils of State of any length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e174	: On 10 September, the elections did not give a majority for any of the declared government options. The working party went back clearly, but is nevertheless a larger group and a larger party than the center option was, and larger than the right. SV's progress was not an expression of a desire for a Right-dominated Government. Therefore, in the days following the election, it was unclear which and what kind of government the country could get. And then there were important clarifications. Firstly, the centre option was ironed out as a separate government option. Then the Christian People's Party chose to seek cooperation with the Right, in recognition that there had to be a government that had to receive support from the Advance Party. And finally, the Progress Party declared clear support for a Bondevik government. Thus, the foundation was laid for the creation of a new government, and that is the new government we have now seen taking its seat and starting its work. Such a government would be impossible without clear support from the Progress Party. Without the support of the Progress Party, there would be greater support in the Stortinget for some form of government in which the Workers' Party took part or had a dominant position. I regret that the Christian People's Party chose to go to the Right to find the basis for a government, and I regret, of course, that it has been possible to form a government where the Progress Party has played such a central role. But I accept the choices that have been made. I respect the fact that the parties believe they achieve the most by cooperating in the way they have chosen, and if not otherwise, there will be some sort of tidy parliamentary situation by the fact that there is a clear grouping that has chosen to support the sitting government and that the other parties are in opposition. The working party is set to be in opposition during this entire accumulation period. Our goal is to make the 2005 elections a choice where we can gain greater support and once again the basis of a government in which the Workers' Party participates. No one can deny that things can happen during the period, but as it now looks, we are most likely to receive a government of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left throughout this entire process, and that the Workers' Party remains in opposition. We need to be a clean and clear opposition party. We're going to promote our issues, whether it's about fair distribution, the development of the Norwegian welfare society in terms of school, health and care for the elderly, or about value creation, to facilitate job security and profitable Norwegian businesses. In that work, we would like to cooperate with other parties, with both opposition parties and with government parties when there is a basis for this. The Workers' Party will not stand in the way of good solutions, and we are pleased with the clear invitation contained in the Bondevik Government's declaration of cooperation also with the opposition parties. Of course, whether there is a basis for cooperation depends on what the Government actually promotes, and how far it is willing to extend in negotiations and conversations with other parties. I am also pleased that the government statement to the Bondevik government so clearly underlines that it will follow up the work of the Labour Party government in important areas such as the escalation of care for the elderly and the development of the health care system – the psychiatry plan and the cancer plan. It is somewhat less clear, but nevertheless a statement from the Bondevik government that it wants cheaper kindergartens and full kindergarten coverage. It is also very clear from the new government that there is still a desire to step up aid for the poorest countries and to seek greater efforts for the poorest, those who have the most difficult economic situation. And then, from the government side, two things have been underlined. The Workers' Party fully agrees. It's that it's about helping people get to work, and it's about the fight against drug abuse. Both in stepping up efforts to help people get into work and live on their own income, and in the fight against drug abuse, there are proposals in the budget from the outgoing Labour Party Government, and we hope that those proposals will be followed up. Then, of course, they must also receive the support of the Workers' Party. What is the problem with the government statement and with the Sem declaration on which the three parties base their policies is that, at the same time, it is said that a wide range of good proposals will be followed for increased expenditure in the fields of transport, defence, care for the elderly, health, school, research and many other areas, also say that you want significant tax relief and have numbered it to over 30 billion kroner. I guess that's actually the point that you're more specific about the larger amounts. One is quite specific about how to reduce the state's income, and one is also quite specific in a wide range of areas where spending is increased. The most exciting and the biggest problem with both the government statement and the Sem document is therefore what is not there, because either the government parties believe that more oil money should be used, and then it should have been said clearly and clearly, or the government has plans for extensive cuts in a wide range of areas, and it should have been there. Our criticism of the government statement – with a few exceptions and reservations – is therefore not about what it says. There's a lot of things where everyone agrees, and it's an invitation to cooperation we're happy for, but we're excited about what's going to be the practical follow-up to what's in the government statement and the Sem document. It's only when we see the follow-up that we can actually decide what kind of policy the government is going to lead. I am also pleased that the Government has said so clearly that it wants to continue the renewal of the public sector. On the news this morning, we heard a new example of the need for it. We were then referred to from a research report that showed that appropriations for Norwegian hospitals have increased by NOK 6 billion since 1992, while the number of patients treated has increased very little. For example, there is another area in which Norway is at the very top in terms of effort per year. patients, per students, in the case of other public welfare services, but where we are not at the top of the world in terms of health quality, school quality or the quality of other public services. There was also a background for the last year’s Labour Party government to make the renewal of the public sector one of its most important tasks. What I want to warn the new government against is that they can make two serious mistakes in renewing or modernising our common welfare systems. One error is that they can confuse renewal with privatisation and bi-sharing. It is not the renewal and strengthening of our common welfare systems to add to extensive privatisation that could lead to a two-part health service or two-part school offer, where those with good income or living in the right places of the country get a good school offer, while those with low incomes or living in the wrong places of the country get a lower school offer, a lower health offer or in other ways a lower welfare offer. The overall objective of the Workers' Party in renewing the public sector is to provide all the same welfare services, not a commercialisation or privatisation, which means that there will be different offers, depending on where you live or the amount of income you have. It's one of the pitfalls the government can go in, a little depending on what they mean by what they say in the government statement. The other pitfall is that they can believe that there is a lot of money to get to finance the promised tax reliefs. It is true that there is a lot of money to save on renewing the public sector. That's a lot of money and a lot of money. But the Labour Party believes that what we save on organizing the public sector better, making our welfare systems better, getting more back for the tax credits, we're going to use to strengthen the quality, expand the service provision, not take out the money to finance tax relief, primarily to those who earn the most from before. I'll give you some examples of that. First of all, to the Defence Department: through the reform that has been adopted, we have saved up to 5000 annual works, and approximately DKK 2 billion in reduced annual expenditure on Defence. But that money we're going to stay in Defense to strengthen Defense. It was even so that the bulk of the population thought that NOK 28 billion plus the savings of NOK 2 billion was too small, and then they added SEK 3 billion to the defense for sure. Then at least there is no money left to collect in savings from the Defence. Once we've laid down military spells, slender rods, and saved $2 billion, there won't be any bail-out money, but there will be freed money for a stronger defense with better equipment, more exercises and better material. The same is true of the police: half the number of police districts, hundreds of policemen who stop paperwork, less bureaucracy, more police — not saving money, but a better police force to fight crime. So to school: we now agree on perhaps the most comprehensive red tape of Norwegian school ever — the winding-up of special agreements, conversion provisions, reporting obligations and increased reading obligations for teachers. It is estimated that this will save us thousands of years of teaching and save us a few billion dollars. Of course, we're not taking that money out of school. We let them stay in school to enhance the quality of school and increase the salaries of teachers. Similarly, it is for higher education or health, where we are also in the process of implementing major reforms. I therefore warn the Government against believing that the renewal of the public sector provides easy money for significant tax relief. Either we talk about school, health, care for the elderly, what we save on organizing these businesses better, the money we need to expand the quality of all of these areas. The Workers' Party will have a stronger and better welfare society. That is why we will renew it. We don't want to renew the welfare community by building it down. We want to expand the Community solutions. Therefore, we can promise cheaper kindergartens and full babysitting. We have proposed the elimination of health benefits, the reduction of parental payments in kindergartens, and we have put forward concrete proposals to renovate the school and concrete proposals to expand care for the elderly and many other areas of the Norwegian welfare community. It's our policy. We have shown how this can be properly financed, without going beyond the Norwegian economy or the Norwegian industry. We read that the government might think of spending more oil money to finance all its promises, both on the income side and on the expenditure side of the budget. I would strongly warn against that. This could lead to a two-fold division of the Norwegian economy, where there is a shortage of labour, a high level of pressure in private and service sectors, in trade in goods, in the hotel and restaurant sectors, while there will be a sharp decline in unemployment and closures in industry and in competitive businesses. We need strong, profitable businesses, and we need a strong and profitable industry. The use of more oil money will easily undermine it. We should bet on the responsible use of oil revenues. Then we can secure the industry, ensure that we can expand the Norwegian welfare community and contribute to the decline in interest rates. It is a policy we have put forward in our draft budget. The less the Bondevik government changes on the proposed state budget, the easier it is to get a majority for it in this room, because it is a well-balanced budget in which we safeguard the value of sharing and the value of creating a responsible industrial policy with a gradual expansion of the Norwegian welfare community. We start work in Stortinget at a time of international unrest. Other speakers from the Workers' Party will present the Workers' Party's assessments and views related to the terrorist action in the United States and what is now happening in Afghanistan. I just want to be very careful to say that I am pleased that the then Labour Party government, through a good dialogue with the parties in the United Kingdom in the post-election period, could be able to implement a number of completely necessary measures relating to rehabilitating health care, civil protection and defence, and many other preparedness measures to make us more prepared for the worst to happen also in Norway, while also providing our contributions humanitarianly, but also militarily, to the international operations currently in progress. It is an expression that there is a broad consensus on important main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, and that a government can take that responsibility even in such a situation as we were in after the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e215	Let me first thank you for a neat behaviour on the part of the Workers' Party at the change of government. Let's highlight what Stoltenberg was into; we also appreciate that they will be factual in the opposition. It's positive. So Stoltenberg suggests that there may be some lifting break in the Sem statement. Then you have to listen, because there's someone who has experience in lifting failure in this room, it's the Workers' Party. It's actually the only party that in the election campaign openly advertised its own broken promises in large ads. It was honest and sincere, but the point is that this can be done by the Workers' Party. The Labour Party made a poor choice, and they did so because the voters reacted to the party's policy. They reacted to the fact that there are still 260 000 people in hospital queues in Norway, that one in five high school students cannot read and write, and that 15 pst. by Norwegian recruiters, a permit application cannot be filled in. This shows that much of the Workers' Party has been in for the last ten years – it has been running for seven of the years – has failed. The 1990s are the decades of lost opportunities due to the Workers' Party. Then I have a small question – there could have been many questions asked to the representative Stoltenberg, but I have one. In the election campaign, he has been in constant debate with the Right on the distribution impact of the Right's tax policy. Can Stoltenberg then explain to me why it is that in his own proposition, which is now presented, the three lowest income groups, from NOK 69 000 to NOK 129 000, will receive an increase in tax? Can Jens Stoltenberg tell me the distribution effect of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e226	I will work hard to be friendly, objective, pleasant and attentive to the government parties until I have something serious to put them on. By that I mean to say that I should not accuse you too much, either in and of myself not accusing you of a breach of promises until I see what you are actually doing. What I'm saying is, I'm just waiting with excitement, because you're now creating expectations of both historical reductions in the income of the common fund and historical increases in the expenditure of the common fund. You mean, for example. – and it is very clear in the government statement – that there are about NOK 3 billion missing in the defence budget, and then you have said quite clearly that the airline seat fee should go away from 1 January, if the Minister of Finance does not want to go with the coat. And I expect the Minister of Finance has not planned to wear a coat the whole next year – inside! I expect it to be serious when you say that you have to finance the new defence structure. Well, just this is $4.5 billion. I want you to be happy to find 4.5 billion, i.e. an extra 3 billion kroner for the defense and 1.5 billion kroner for the flight fees. And then there are many other things you've promised, and I see with even greater tension up to it. It is only when the Minister of Finance is going with the coat, i.e. when it is cut in areas where you have made expectations that there will be an increase in effort – for example. to help the very poorest, to employment measures, to reintroduce, to help disadvantaged people return to work or to pay subsidies to enterprises that take on vulnerable labour – I want to be more raw and brutal. Now I'm going to stick to the constructive. The distribution effect of our tax arrangements is good. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e237	The President recalls that all speeches should be addressed to the President and that speaking time should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e240	It is relatively entertaining to hear such a instructive lecture for a new government after the Workers' Party has made the worst choices of the times. In particular, it is interesting to hear the statements made by the outgoing Prime Minister that a new political course will mean more for all good purposes, less taxes and taxes, and that this does not go together, especially after we have seen the census presented by the outgoing government, where exactly the same is promised: More for all good purposes and less taxes. The question to Jens Stoltenberg is therefore: how can it be that everyone else who wants to give another give, another political course and another way to control the Norwegian economy is irresponsible, and that it is only when the Workers' Party does something, it is responsible for the use of money? When the Workers' Party finds it opportune to promote tax reductions, including the use of oil money, it is responsible, but if others think it is possible to do so, perhaps to a greater extent and otherwise, it is irresponsible. Then I responded to the claims that the budget from the outgoing government has taken care of the money that has been saved for reforms in the Defense and left them there. How is it that there is a gap in relation to what the Ministry of Defence itself has said, between 3 and 4 billion dollars to finance what the Stortinget has decided? And what if the Stoltenberg government allowed the money to stay in the police after a police reform, that all police agencies themselves claim that the police have been underfunded for many years, and that the gap to be resumed is significant?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e249	First of all, I noticed that the head of the Finance Committee takes his job seriously and defends the government parties. Secondly, I have not claimed that they are irresponsible. I've said that they can quickly be. I have just pointed out that there are some aspects missing in the Sem Declaration and the Government Declaration, namely the pages where you talk about how to find money for all the promises you make. Of course, it is possible to find this money, it is a simple matter in itself. Several of the parties currently in government have made proposals for cutbacks in development aid, in actions for the most weak, in labour market measures,reduction measures and cutbacks in other areas to finance the type of promises made by the Government in the Government Declaration. I hope for the longest time that the Government will not repeat that kind of proposal, and in part that kind of proposal is contrary to what the Government itself has said in its own government statement. The outgoing government has either already implemented or, at least, adopted very substantial changes in large parts of the public sector in Norway. The defense is an example of this, and the savings here are up to 5,000 annual works by removing red tape, slim sticks, putting down military spells and getting better business by bringing them together in what is called power centers within the Defence. The estimated savings there is NOK 2 billion. This money will be in the defense. So the majority of the population has wanted a structure that is about NOK 3 billion more expensive, and then the government has told it to find this money. That's what I say becomes demanding, but of course not impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e256	I have recently wondered if there are any information problems in the Workers' Party. It was only after the election was over that we got something that we could call an election budget. It was a budget with a clear political profile that we welcome in many areas, including: a real bet on kindergartens that we have not seen before. There is a lot we should have done, but the direction was far better than the Workers' Party when they were in government. Then I read in the Newspaper today clear invitations for cooperation with SV and the Center Party. It also came well after the election. Why in the world does both a political change in course and open cooperation invitations come after the big shot that was on September 10th? If this had happened before, we could have had a different political situation in Norway. We've had a majority in the Storting in the period that went on, between the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, which was very rarely triggered, and which rarely appeared in this hall. In many respects, SV took the initiative that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV should cooperate on important issues, but we did not succeed, only exceptionally. We may have taken a bad initiative, the Center Party may have been too glued to the center, and the Workers' Party may also prefer to make agreements on the right. We think it's interesting signals coming from the Workers' Party now, but we're wondering what's in it. If one is to cooperate with other parties, one must be willing to engage in real political negotiations. So cooperation means that you have to discuss politics and not just invite others to participate in your policy. Are these signs that the Workers' Party is interested in engaging in real political negotiations with other parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e265	First to the claim that we are now saying something new in relation to what we said before the election. If that were the case, we had to be the only party that made election promises after the elections and not before the elections, and implement them in our draft budget, so we shouldn't have said this before the elections. Now it's not like that. All the important initiatives contained in our proposal for a State budget, such as: We said clearly in documents for Stortinget last spring and in what we called the «securities», which highlighted our most important issues before the election. It also stated that we should reduce the costs of health care and remove excesses on blue prescriptions for the elderly and the disabled. These are proposals that are now being followed up in our draft budget. Similarly, the documents we made before the election stated that we wanted to rust up the care for the elderly, spend more money on health care; it is now being followed up. And we clearly said before the elections that we would introduce a separate scheme for upgrading school buildings by NOK 15 billion, that is now also followed up in the state budget. So the issues that are now highlighted as good issues in the government's proposal to the state budget are matters that we of course announced clearly before the election, which includes among other things. the proposal for a further reduction in the taxation of labour income. So it's been three years since the Workers' Party opened up to more committed cooperation with other parties, also in relation to government and as part of government cooperation. There was no majority for that, among others. because the centre party – and I respect that – chose to be part of the center option. Therefore, this was rejected. It is only now after the election that a centre party has been open to more committed cooperation with the Workers' Party, and it contributes to changing the situation. So it's only time to show whether there's a political basis for developing such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e273	I want to, like the representative Oddvard Nilsen, thank you for the cleanliness of the government transition now, and likein for the way one has handled the international situation in the interim. Similarly, I would like to pay tribute to the way one of the posts described a large part of the Sem declaration and the government statement of the new government. The rhetoric during the entire election campaign about the cold society to come, and all the horror scenario, was gone. There was one not in that post, and I thought it was good. I would also like to thank the extensive staff for working together on matters that are in agreement, and that one should be clean in opposition. Our experience from four years back is that we didn't experience it from the Labour Party, so we thank you for that. Then to some reality. Stoltenberg did not answer the question from Nilsen: Are the three lowest tax classes better off than today with the Labour Party's scheme, or worse? I want a concrete answer to the question: Do they get better out, or do they get worse? So for cooperation – how can you trust cooperation agreements? A written agreement was reached between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on the investment fee. There was a small correction there because some depreciation rules were changed. But then we had an interesting speech from the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg at the NHO annual conference. There, Stoltenberg said: ‘The investment fee is to be removed on 1 April 2002. This is no April joke." The past shows that it was a April joke. What is most important: what is signed in an agreement, and what was said by a prime minister, or what is coming up later that one would like to have in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e282	I would have liked very much to have tabled a government budget proposal where we removed the investment fee on 1 April; we worked a long time trying to find funding for that. The problem was that in the agreement we only agreed on how to spend more money, NOK 5-6 billion on removing the investment tax, there was no agreement on how this would be financed. And we then found that the possible means of funding – either by not applying a reduction in taxes on labour, to which we had also committed ourselves, or by, for example, by means of a reduction in taxes on labour. increasing the employer’s tax – was worse for Norwegian enterprises than taking the reduction in the investment tax over two years, with an additional DKK 15 billion in 2002 at the disposal, and then having the same amount at the disposal of 2003. It is easier to take such a reduction over two years than over one year, and therefore we proposed removing the investment levy on 1 October. But we have clearly said in the budget papers that if you want to get rid of it on 1 April, the best way to do it is to increase the employer's pay. The investment fee can then be removed, but I believe that for Norwegian companies it is a poor solution. But, of course, the Government may suggest it, or the Government may propose other ways of financing the removal of the investment levy from 1 April. We believe that the best thing for Norwegian farms is to remove it on 1 October. It will then have to be removed in case it is reintroduced, and it can be financed over two years with the increased room for action in the economy by taking it over two years instead of over one year. In the case of taxes, it is said that looking at the lowest income groups, there is relief for absolutely all groups when you see taxes and charges as a whole. When there are some people only on taxes that get worse, there is no increase in taxes on low incomes, but this is due, among other things, to taxes. zero-taxors who have to pay for company car tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e289	I understand very well that the representative Jon Lilletun raises the issue of the investment fee, because the explanation given by Jens Stoltenberg is simply too simple. I assume that the Workers' Party was already thinking about the signing of this agreement when the budget was negotiated last autumn. Secondly, the Labour Party has found room for new measures and tax relief in other areas in its draft budget, and so the Labour Party has a chance here to show whether written agreements are important for the Workers' Party. Are they more important than putting in place other measures that the Labour Party itself wants to prioritise? There is not much respect for handling agreements in the way the Workers' Party has done. Like Jon Lilletun and others, I would like to say – perhaps to the surprise of many – that it is constructive that the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg now call for good cooperation with the new government. And so will the Center Party. I think that will be absolutely necessary in the period we now go into with the political landscape we have established. There are other tones we now experience from the Workers' Party than what we experienced in 1997, when the Workers' Party chose to put itself on the sidelines for two years because of one thing, namely the cash support. I hope it won't repeat itself in this period, because it will lead to a completely different policy in many areas than what I believe large parts of this government, especially represented by the Christian People's Party, want, and a completely different policy than that both the Labour Party and the Central Party want. This will lead to more privatisation and greater differences both geographically and socially. It's a development that most people don't want to be served with, and I'd say the Workers' Party has a special responsibility to contribute to that we don't get. So finally, the biggest problem I think Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party have now created is that they have made enormous expectations of what it will be possible for the municipality to solve tasks in the coming year. How will Jens Stoltenberg now help to make it possible for municipalities to invest in cheaper kindergartens, better schools, better care for the elderly and better psychiatry, all the time the revenues of the municipalities indicate that it will not be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e298	I understand very well that the issue of the investment fee is being raised, and I repeat that I would be very happy to remove it on 1 April. I also repeat that it is fully possible to remove it on 1 April, but I believe that the cost of doing so, not least for Norwegian companies, is greater than waiting to remove it until 1 October. We have explained that it is possible to remove it on 1 April, but then we see no better way to finance it than to increase the employer's fee. Overall, we believe that this is worse than taking it over two years – removing it on 1 October, and then implementing the removal over two years instead of over one year. If the Central Party agrees with the government parties that it's better to remove 1 April and then find another way of finding 3 billion dollars, it's the majority of that in the Storing, but that's not our recommendation. The problem is that agreements agree only to increase expenditure in order to reduce an investment tax and do not agree on the coverage. But the Investment Tax Act has been repealed, and the Workers' Party has voted for it. So we've stood by our part of the agreement by repealing that law. The only thing that is now being adjusted is the time for the cancellation, from 1 April to 1 October, which means that I believe that we are at the core of the agreement, namely to repeal the Investment Tax Act. We have voted for the law to be repealed, that is the time of implementation that is being postponed for six months. I would have preferred to avoid it, but believe that the cost of it is too large, not least for Norwegian companies. And I repeat, it's only when we see the draft budget from the Bondevik government that we know what we're actually dealing with. I warned against adopting a defence structure this year that we were unable to finance. It is better to adopt a defence structure of DKK 28 billion and come up with DKK 28 billion than to do as the majority did, namely to adopt NOK 31 billion and bring NOK 28 billion. The government is missing NOK 3 billion and has said in the government statement that this should be found. I say good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e307	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e310	There are not always clarifications in debates in Stortinget, but today it has actually done so. The representative Stoltenberg admitted that when looking at the distribution effect, both taxes and taxes had to be included. The representative of Stoltenberg certainly remembers well from the election campaign, where he refused to bring the fees when the Right showed what we had given in tax relief. So here we've got a clarification. In the next election campaign, we might be able to hold a debate on such a basis. The political basis for the new cooperative government is presented in the Sem Declaration, starting with a chapter on the value base. There you will find the general thoughts and ideas on which the government's policy will be based. I want to stay a little bit at this part of the document. First of all, it is gratifying that it was so easy to define a value base that the three batches have been able to complete completely. It underlines the significant political community between the three governmental parties. At several points, the value base indicates a new price compared to that of the previous government. This is clear, among other things. in relation to the relationship with the world around us, and the recognition of the challenges and opportunities that globalisation gives us. Rising technological developments have created – and create – new markets and new opportunities every day. Every day becomes simpler, but also more diverse. New jobs are created, and new professions are created. But on the other hand, the rate of change is so high that many people find it difficult to keep up with a new generation that has almost grown up with mobile phones, text messages and PCs. What we have experienced individually is also happening globally. The land limits mean less than before. New winners are created, but also new losers. The gain of being cut is greater than ever, but the pits are also deeper than they've ever been. For Norway, this is a question of how we see our future. We have to make a clear choice: are we going to bet everything we can on being close and securing the value creation that underpins both personal and public well-being? Or are we going to build up business for the benefit of public consumption and an increasingly oil and commodity-dependent economy? The previous government had clearly aligned policies against the latter. The sharp tax increases — from a already sky-high level — were in the process of completely parking Norway on the sideline. A free exchange of goods, services, capital, ideas, knowledge and innovation has always been the building blocks of a successful society. And then I'm not just talking about the purely material values. We're all getting richer because we're opening up to the world. Those who know their history should be able to agree on one obvious fact: it is not possible to protect themselves for progress and well-being. The countries that have tried it have created only misery for the people they are set to rule. The co-operation administration has made a clear choice: Norway will be back on track. Norway shall not be a different tax policy country. I said that globalisation can also create losers. This applies both internationally and at home. The Christian People's Party and the Left have been powerful drivers of combating poverty – both within and outside the borders of the country – and of offensive environmental policies. The political basis for the new government is therefore characterised by: transparency of new ideas and new ideas towards the opportunities open to ostolerance of those who are different or who choose different from the majority social responsibility of those who fall outside; Such ambitions require a completely different policy of knowledge and competence from that of the previous government. The political basis of the Cooperative Government draws up an offensive policy on diversity, freedom of choice and professional requirements that will create a new give in all parts of Norwegian education. It is important in a world where competence and creativity will be success factors. Today’s processors – the brain of the computer – are getting smaller and smaller in size, faster and less energy-intensive. The result is better computers, which can perform increasingly advanced tasks, with transistors – which in the old radios were as large as bulbs – that are so thin today that it goes up to one thousand of them on the width of a hairline. But Intel – the producers of these processors – is already producing them in low-cost countries. The challenge for all of us is that almost always there will be someone who is able to produce cheaper. A short time ago, it was announced that scientists had managed to create organic transistors at the molecular level. There shall be millions of them in a grain of sand. It underlines another challenge: there are always some with a better technology on the drawing board. This is not only about our future as a nation, but also about the opportunities each youth has when you leave school and meet reality out there. When the world looks like that, is there anyone who thinks that we can settle down that one in five students leave school without being able to read and write properly? Can we settle down with an education system that can best be called mediocre when we compare ourselves to others? Knowledge is no heavy should bear. In today's world, there are a lot of ways in which creativity and creativity can be phased out. And it doesn't keep making informed demands on itself. We need ambitions to be among the best, maybe the best. Then we have to be completely at the forefront of technological development. We must have the smartest minds, the most eager employees and the most industrious entrepreneurs. But we don't have to go in the trap of thinking that an elite university that can hatch a few, but smart engineers, will do the trick. One of the reasons why the Nokia adventure could take place in Finland was that there was a large, functioning and deregulated home market for telecommunications services. Because we have to drag everyone on our way into the future. That's why it's a problem for those who do well at school, too, when a fifth of the students don't learn to read and write properly. More transparency and freedom of choice and less bureaucracy are becoming important for the Cooperation Government. We started that work under the Willoch government in the 1980s. Longer opening hours at the shops made everyday life easier for many. Freedom in the ether created great diversity. The deregulation of the housing market enabled many to own their own dwellings. In the 1980s, the cooperation parties went ahead and modernised Norway. It was at a time when the Workers' Party, among others, were engaged in the control of CNN signals via satellite antennas. There have been important things in the meantime as well. The central government introduced the cash support, the main freedom of choice reform in the 1990s, and the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme set out the course for what is now to be done in this area. The cooperation parties have over time shown that they can stand together – and will stand together – to modernise Norwegian society. I will praise the Christian People's Party and the Left for their contribution to creating a new government for the country, and for their willingness to cooperate on political solutions. It requires political courage to think again when their own government options did not get the necessary weight after the elections in the autumn. The aim of all policymakers is to maximise the implementation of their policies. That's what's driving us forward. Those who succeed are those who have the ability and the will to extend one hand to others, to cooperate with others to achieve common goals. It's in the very nature of cooperation that you can't always get it the way you want it. All parties must achieve results and be able to support the results, and then they must give in to matters that are important to those with whom they will cooperate. It has all the three parties that are behind the Cooperation Government. But the result we've achieved is better than what each of us would achieve separately. It will always be a sport for the opposition to plague the cooperating parties in areas where negotiations have had to be conducted. It is presented as a weakness, and the aim of course is to weaken cohesion and belief in common goals. I would rather take the opportunity to commend the three party leaders who have led the negotiations to a result that all three parties can fully support. This may not raise the eyebrows, since I myself belong to a party that is part of this government constellation, but I have always stressed the importance of cooperation, I have always looked at politicians who are able to find unifying solutions as brave and capable. I know there are such politicians in all parties. I am also fully aware that the Cooperation Government has no majority in the Storting alone. Our ability to get through important reforms and modernising society depends on our being able to find good solutions with the opposition parties. I am pleased that several have already announced a constructive line of opposition. It is important to implement matters, but it is not least important at a time when the uncertainty outside the world is greater than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e389	In the government's proposal for a government budget, we have found room for increased school investment, more for health care, more for elderly care and more for other important purposes. There have also been increases in defence, when we look at what defence will use in Norway — in fact, the strongest increase in many years. And there's been a strong increase for transport purposes. I notice that, for the first time, they say that they are going to support the Labour Party government in terms of spending on care for the elderly, health and education, and in addition they want even more on roads, defence and research than the escalating labor party government provided. And in many other areas, both before and after the election, the Right has promised very much to large selection groups. I was running election campaigns in several places where people were busy with transportation, and the Right had largely promised an extra road or tunnel wherever I came. And I was in places where you were occupied with the Defense, and where you were happy that the Right had adopted a defense that required about 3 billion extra per. years. What I look forward to knowing is, where is the money to be collected? I am not asking the representative Oddvard Nilsen to come with an alternative state budget in his reply in two minutes, but when we talk about a need to move a large number of billions of dollars in order to be close to complying with the Right promise in the case of lower taxes, to be close to complying with what the Government has promised in terms of increased efforts for the Defence, and to be close to what has been suggested to the chosen country and beach around in the case of transportation, it could be OK if the representative Oddvard Nilsen at least suggested some major action on where to find the first billions to fulfill the great promises of the Right. Because I assume that the promises will be fulfilled!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e396	The representative of Stoltenberg knows perfectly well that there is some party in this house that has aged its budgets properly and tidy up over the years, it is just the Right. He also knows very well how the Right has intended to finance, among other things. that contained in the programme and that contained in the Sem declaration. I stress that that's what this is about. He knows well. He knows that it's the action space for the petroleum fund, he knows that it's the growth of the economy, he knows that it's the efficiency of the public sector, he knows that State Consultant signals how much resources there is possible to absorb, and he knows that we can also redispatch within the budget. However, the main point is that the Labour Party in its position has weakened the foundations of the business sector in Norway – and there is the biggest challenge. In fact, we have lost market shares in exports since 1996 – a total of 16 pst. And it's actually in Stoltenberg's own proposition that this will continue, you'll still lose market shares on the export side. That's why the Right Sees We Have No Choice. It is necessary to ensure that Norway has a tax regime that is able to make it interesting to establish itself in Norway and operate in Norway. The truth is that even Sweden has dramatically reduced its taxes. Everyone else in Europe does. Why? Yes, because there is a competition out there – a tough competition for jobs and start-ups. There's the biggest failure from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e403	Let me first congratulate the representative, Mr Nilsen, as parliamentary leader! In this connection, I hope that the weight behind his former loads can also give greater weight in the matter of transportation. From the former head of the Transport Committee at Stortinget, you might also expect something more on that side. I would challenge the representative of Nilsen in relation to the statements made by the new Minister of Transport. There are new road charges on the stairs from the new government. And it is clear that we all know that the Right also in previous governments have proposed tax increases in terms of car and road. Can we now again expect new car and road charges, new and more toll stations to despair for Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens? Or can the Progress Party now expect to receive support from the new government for significant reductions in car taxes, and that we will receive more funds without increasing the tax burden on roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e410	One might expect such a line when one has been the head of the Committee on Transport. As for the budget, we'll have to wait and see what's coming on November 9th. But as far as the Sem statement is concerned, it is quite clear in the area that Sandberg is asking about. It says that you have to do a raise on the transport side. I have always said that the beauty of Norway is not that we live so widely, but that this country has a scattered resource base that has made it possible to have a settlement throughout the country. It is not that someone settled at the Grip once in time because it was so beautiful there. They settled there because it was something to live on. And that day there was nothing to live on, people moved. I think it's an important factor to keep an eye on, namely that there are jobs out there that are crucial. I've always said that for me, transportation has been an important tool, not only for building roads and bridges and tunnels, as a construction project, but based on what this gives back to society. And that's where I honestly and sincerely believe that the Sem statement goes far. In addition, there is a historical commitment to public transport – environmental-oriented public transport. Never before, I think, has it been said so much positive and also promised so much on the collective transport side. And that's also a point, that those who go around this country and suggest that you get a better public transport without it costing anything, without it going to lead to the conversion of the system, they don't stand to believe. That is why I am pleased with what is stated in the Sem Declaration, both on the road side and on the collective side. I think we're going to discover that this government will conduct a completely different transport policy than the Workers' Party did.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e416	When I hear The Right's new parliamentary leader explain how to maintain coherence in economic policy, I remember how Per-Kristian Foss would have characterized this when he was in opposition: he would call this Harry money. Because, in the Right's history, one has never been able to finance a government budget with growth in economics and oil money. Not even the SV of our most irresponsible person has ever found it possible to balance our budget that way. Oddvard Nilsen also knows very well that this is not possible. Otherwise it is interesting to get an answer to the following: Is what is said by the Right parliamentary leader, who is thus the head of the largest government parties, the common position of the Government, or is this expression of the Right's position? For a clearer tribute to the market, a clearer tribute to the Right Program, it has been a long time since you've seen. Is this really a common government basis for the Christian People's Party and the Left, where the state – society as such – is not going to be responsible at all, but where the market is going to take over more and more of these tasks? I must, of course, allow the Government to have a certain run-in time, so that together one finds some kind of understanding of what this Sem statement actually is, but I have not been able to read the Sem Declaration or the Government's Declaration of Accession in the way that Oddvard Nilsen now did. There was something more balanced in this despite everything than the reinvigorated Right-post that Oddvard Nilsen had. But let me therefore challenge Oddvard Nilsen on one thing that I think might be some of the most interesting. Oddvard Nilsen is engaged in industrial and industrial activities from Norway. The Sem Declaration and also the Government's Declaration of Accession place emphasis on selling the property of the State. What has happened to the sales state so far? All of them have gone abroad. Hydro Seafood, the credit box, Focus Bank, you can mention the whole feeling. So far, Sampo was not able to get hold of Storebrand. The result of the sale by the State has been that foreigners have got hold of some of our businesses. Headquarters has moved out, business is no longer in operation in Norway, Norway has become a branch country. Doesn't Oddvard Nilsen see that when we have as bad capitalists as we have, then the state has to play this role in order that, after all, there is something sensible going on in this rock?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e425	The representative, Djupedal, had private and public property rights in Norway. No, it would probably be that if we had just got to sit with the power a little bit longer, there would probably have been a lot more properties on private hands in this country. There is no solution from our side that the state should sit with the majority of these. But let me take one thing that's important for me to say, because SV is the party that has money for everything related to the budget. Their etiology has sometimes, in my opinion, been almost – excuse the expression – incomprehensible. But the point is that at the same time the party has said that they're busy with Velferds-Norway, and that's great. But to the representative of Djupedal, is it not that the height of the safety net that will carry the weakest in society, ultimately depends on us as a society to produce an economic surplus? I expect the representative of Djupedal to know his history so well that he knows what has happened in countries that do not have the power to keep their accounts and make sure that there is a surplus in the budget. He knows very well who the population of these countries has suffered. It's just looking at systems that have collapsed. That's why it's a point in itself to make sure you have a clean economy, make sure you have a surplus in the state budget that makes you able to have the security network on which the weakest in society depend. That's what this is about. And that is why economic policies and policies related to business are so important. Someone has to create the profit that everyone else wants to use. That is what is in the intention and in the long-term objectives of the Sem Declaration. And there are many ways the whole point is to ensure the well-being of the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e432	The centre party has a strong commitment to equivalent living conditions throughout the country. An active rural policy with a stronger culture and an offensive business policy is necessary both to benefit from the opportunities offered by traditional jobs and also to create new jobs. An active district policy is a good urban policy. The pressure on the big cities makes it easier for more people to live outside of our most populous areas. Equal living conditions are about good public services in urban and rural areas – and municipalities have a very central role here – better schools, more and better kindergartens and a more dignified care for the elderly. It's good that Oddvard Nilsen so strongly points out our welfare arrangements and our commitment there. But the actual situation is that all municipalities are struggling today. Expectations and promises of different tasks are far greater than the means at your disposal. The right has signaled that it is now the big cities' turn. The big cities must be secured a better economy. The central party agrees that it is important to focus on those who live in cities, but, as the Minister of Justice has said, it has given alarming signals. It has no more resources for distribution to municipalities. It will take from the little ones and give to the big ones. Many who voted for Bondevik as Prime Minister had confidence that he would support a more dignified care and maintenance of cross-sections, means of support contacts and cultural action in the districts as well. Right has multiples in the government, right has seen its clear stamp on the Sem statement. I would like to give the Right's parliamentary leader the opportunity to confirm that the Right will also put its stamp on both the scale and the device of the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e439	The representative, Kleppa, was involved in some aspects of the municipal economy. I expect that Kleppa is aware of – she is sure – that the so-called objective criteria underlying the local economy have in some way the element that if the problems are moved, the money should also be moved. This means, for example: that when many people with major drug problems move to cities, it is in many ways natural that we also allow resources to follow. This does not necessarily mean that the offer in District Norway is getting worse, because there are many handles for this. The center party is one of the parties that I and many people in this hall have often just thought to come under the description that I came with, to ‘protect themselves for progress’. I remember very well the discussions I had with the Central Party here in 1995-1996 related to liberalisation in the telecommunications sector. It was like meeting a completely foreign world, so one thought that the telecommunications sector in Norway would still be monopolised, while the rest of the world stormed out, that we should not participate in the world's largest and perhaps most important growing industrial activity. That would have been the consequences of the Central Party's policy. Making sure that new technologies were introduced, that applications and applications related to the dynamic development of this industry were developed, would not actually be part of the Centre Party. It was a strange experience. We actually felt that the representative Chaffey from SV went up to this pulpit and asked what the Center Party was thinking about all over the world. So in this way, I encourage the Center Party to think again -- think, read through and see if that's not what I'm saying, that there has never been any country in the world that has ever been able to protect itself for progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e446	First of all, I would like to correct a serious omission: I would also like to congratulate Mr Oddvard Nilsen on his election as parliamentary leader in the Right Group, and I look forward to his cooperation. Then I would like to say that I am not satisfied with the answer I received. It was a campaign post, not an answer. It is absolutely right that economic space should be increased in relation to economic growth. It's not Harry's money, it's good money, and that's why I'm for growth. It's true that oil money also gives us some increased economic space. In the long-term programme, we have, among other things: Illustrated how we are going to spend that money: partly to a responsible, cautious reduction in taxes on labour, but primarily to finance increased spending on public welfare assets for which all parties in this process are in favour: stepping up the care of the elderly, school, research, health and many other important areas — or for example. kindergartens, where the Right in the election campaign also talked about the public funding of kindergartens being cancelled, they said not to 80 pst, but to 70-80 pst. It will cost up to NOK 5 billion in increased annual expenses. So there's a lot of the increased space already used up with oil money and economic growth. Then there remains one source of funding that the Right has spent the entire election campaign talking about, and that is what they call 'disposal in the budget'. That's a neater expression for cut. And it's absolutely right that the right has suggested cut. They have e.g. the proposed DKK 2.7 billion less for assistance. But now the government is going in to increase the aid. They have suggested less to the railway, while the Sem-Declaration speaks of more money to the railway. They have been committed to cutting labour market measures, while the Sem Declaration speaks of helping the poorest. Labour market measures are not least. I repeat the question, where should it be redisposed? Because that's where you have to pick up most of the money when you want to find extra 3 billion kroner, extra 5 billion kroner for kindergartens and a good deal of extra billions for many other purposes that the Right has been fighting for, and got the voters to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e453	First of all, thank you for your congratulations. I'll do everything I can to make the cooperation as good as possible. As I said in my main post, I might consider it to be the most important task, both because we have a minority government where it is important to have tidy relationships, and not least because we have an international situation that is of such a nature that it calls on all the forces to stand together around solutions related to this. The campaign rhetoric that Stoltenberg said I had, I also knew again in Stoltenberg's articles. So in that way, I guess we're on the same foot. What I tried to say was that it exists, among other things. a State Consultant report relating to the degree of efficiency in the public sector. I know the current prime minister has said something about it, but leave it alone. I believe that there are considerable opportunities in the public sector to do something about improving efficiency. And it's also true that the other two things are related to the space of action and to the growth of the economy. It's just the last thing that's the main problem. This year’s government budget, presented by the government of Stoltenberg, says that the public sector will also grow in 2002. In fact, there are no signals in reality, but the forecasts suggest that it will continue to grow. At the same time, we know that we have full capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy. That means that the most important task for us is to release our hands. If we are to increase the economic value creation in Norway, we need more work to do. We can do this by increasing immigration to Norway, for that matter, but we also need to ensure that the forces released are going to generate economic growth that we can live on together. In this way, the total solution behind the Sem statement is correct. It is well-founded; it will work both now and in the long term, but to the maximum extent it will provide greater opportunities for growth than the Workers' Party provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e465	The election of the Storting gave a composition of the Storing which is almost historical – at least after World War II – in the sense that for the first time a majority of non-socialists have been established without counting on the Center Party. The centre party's long-standing tilt position has finally ended, and many of us have been heard for the main goal of the big shot. Following the election, there has also been a dramatic development in Norwegian policy, with the year-long discussion of the two-block system and a central government, so-called block-independent, and the more normal, for most countries, has again become the situation: it is, in reality, a normal two-block division. In particular, the last few days have shown this – yesterday by the head of the Centerpartiet, Odd Roger Enoksen, declared that the Workers' Party and SV were potential government cooperation partners, and today's announcement in the Newspaper that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, current parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, also sees future opportunities in a cooperative government, a cooperation between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. So the two-block division is confirmed again. I think that makes sense. It gives clearer alternatives. It gives a clearer political struggle, and it gives voters much better information and choices. That, I think, is a sign of the health of democracy. This may also lead to increased digestion in later choices when there is a clearer situation for the voters. After the election, there have been discussions about the formation of a new government – doing what I said many times in the election campaign, namely "Morn"a Jens". Of course, it has been what has taken time, and it has been in neat and proper parliamentary forms that I think everyone can be satisfied with. Left, Christian People's Party and Right have negotiated on Shem. They have created a document, the Sem Declaration, as the basis for a new government. We thought it was sad. We thought it was unwise not to include in the beginning in all cases the Progress Party, as the third largest party in the country. We think it would have been more natural, it would have been a better basis for the further process if we had at least been brought something more into the picture, because the basis for them talking about forming government was that they recognised the support of the Progress Party in the Storting. It would have been a little less trouble and uprising if you had dealt more with the political terrain than with the political map that you had drawn yourself before the elections. Then there had been a somewhat tidy relationship. The Sem declaration was made, and in many areas we are pleased with the political change in course that has been announced. A change of course, which has also been repeated in the Government's statement, must mean a change from what has been the policy of the Labour Party Government. In a number of areas, there are good things to do: significant tax reliefs – we would like more – are being announced, and we are now adopting what I proposed as a proposal for the first time in 1983, namely on the discrimination between the use of private enterprises versus their own employees in the public sector – this should not be an obstacle to VAT legislation. It will finally be implemented, I assume, from 1 January, and there will be a revolution in the outsourcing of publicly paid tasks and services across the whole country. We hope that we will provide a better quality dramatic offer and reduce costs, because in all publicly paid services we will benefit from competition. In particular, we look forward to this being done in the area of healthcare and care for the elderly – calling for greater freedom of choice, greater choice for users – and we look forward to a greater degree of ingenuity and better organised jobs in the public service industry now that it is exposed to competition. That's what we're looking forward to. We are disappointed that neither the Sem Declaration nor the Government Declaration are open to do anything for Norwegian pensioners. It has been that they have been lying behind. The basic amount has been sub-regulated for many years. We will continue to work intensively to regulate the basic amount at least as prices and wages rise, and not just ‘around’, as they are now. In fact, the country can afford it. I noticed that Oddvard Nilsen spoke strongly about the need for there to be a surplus. I agree. What he forgot to say was that the government budget was also made up of a profit next year – over 150 billion kroner. It's okay that you should always think a little bit long-term and sensible, but at least that means that the country can afford to think a little bit about those who won't live that long, namely those who are now retired. At least you should have warned that you want to do something about the theft that happens to married pensioners. We're going to repeat during the budgetary procedure that we want far less abbreviation than 25 pst. in the case of married pensioners. We will gradually have removed it completely, so that we view pensions as something that we have paid premiums to get, and not as a social benefit such as the new government clearly alerts. Here we want to do something, actually the state can afford it. We are also pleased to note that the new government accepts that the defence structure adopted by the Spring Party should be financed. I had actually, after that debate, believed that the Workers' Party – it is called in the Common Era – would also finance the structure of the Defence that was adopted. This has not been done by the outgoing government, and I understand that even in the debate here, Stoltenberg has admitted that it is missing approximately. NOK 3 billion to finance the defence structure adopted. I expect that the new government in its additional budget will change. Then I want to say that there have been some discussions about forms of government formation, the basis of government formation. Former Prime Minister Kirsti Kolle Grondahl organised a seminar for the Stortinget where we discussed a part of our parliamentary governance, among others. trying to ensure greater stability of government formations because minority governments have been unstable. In that debate, it has been called for the reintroduction in Norway of what is termed ‘investment’ — translated into Norwegian, it does mean a ‘consent decision’, i.e. a majority who will stand behind a new government before the old one goes off and a new one is formed. That's what de facto happened this time as well. It was only after the Sem-Declaration was in place and the Progress Party received an answer to its 54 questions to the planned three government parties – after a thorough examination in the organization of the Progress Party, where our members will have their influence through representative bodies in the party – that we finally publicly acknowledged that we would support the creation of a new three-party government. This also led to the previous government. This has only happened outside the staging room and outside the Stortinget – more in the public space. It is the view of the Progress Party that we should perhaps also consider anchoring these kinds of dramatic and important events within the Storting by starting to practice what is called a ‘consent decision’, or an approval decision, in relation to a new government. For those who want to know more about this, Professor Trond Nordby will certainly have many interpretations about it and about the investment, which was gone in 1908, but which has also been part of our management system in the past. On the basis of what I have now said, I will make the following proposals: ‘The Declaration of the Government of Bondevik, based on the Sem Declaration and the answers to questions by the Group of the Progressive Alliance, is accepted, as the Government has the confidence of the Stortinge.’ It will be a decision in Stortinget that also clarifies why we have got the new government, what is the basis. This word parliamentary ‘base’ is not a one-sided definition, so let me rather use the word ‘base’. It should also be clear in the negotiations of the Grand Duchy why there has been a change of government, and what a majority is really the reason for a change of government. I think one of the things that's been a little bit out of control is that you've kind of pretended that all the opposition parties are exactly the same. There is a marked difference between the Progress Party as an opposition party and the Centre Party, SV and the Workers Party, as the other three have not wanted a government change. We have done so, and that is why we believe it should also be manifested by a decision in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e500	The President will assume that the term ‘theft’ is not entirely acceptable in relation to decisions taken by the Stortinget. The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e507	First a few words about pensions. I believe that it is very important that the basic amount is regulated as the wage increases elsewhere in society. That was not the case during the last Bondevik government. That was the case during the resignation of the Workers' Party government. We reached agreement with the pensioners' organisations on both social security schemes. It didn't happen during the Bondevik I administration, but I hope it will happen now with Bondevik II. Then I have noticed that both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen have made it clear that the Progress Party is not part of the parliamentary basis of the new government. Now I see that Carl I. Hagen sees himself and the Progress Party as part of the parliamentary basis of the new government. To me, it is not quite clear what is the difference between the parliamentary basis and the parliamentary basis, but I can nevertheless inform you that we – the Labour Party – are going to vote against the proposal that Carl I. Hagen has promoted. We are neither part of the parliamentary basis nor part of the parliamentary basis of the new government. But I would like to ask Mr Hagen if he considers himself part of the parliamentary basis of the new government. I perceived it at least so that he said something in that direction in his post. And then it could be useful later in the debate to hear if the Government perceives Hagen as part of its parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e524	I think the first thing Jens Stoltenberg said was very happy, because in the case of the regulation of the basic amount, it means a change in course from the Workers' Party's large-scale group. In the case of social security and all of this, there is a legislative framework, and the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that it should be mentioned in the paragraph in question: the basic amount should be regulated as price and salary increases increase take place. It has only got our own votes – perhaps SV has voted in favour. But the Labour Party, together with the three government parties, has voted against this. The alternative from the Workers' Party has been a bit gradual – i.e. approx. – which allows for underregulation. If it is to be understood that the Workers' Group shares the views of the parliamentary leader, I believe that during the day there will be a proposal in which we will change the rules for regulating the basic amount, so that it will be exactly what we can find out that Jens Stoltenberg said, in line with wage developments. It will be very positive to amend that legislation. With regard to these terms, we have repeatedly been asked the question: are there any part of the parliamentary basis? Now I have not found a clear definition of what a parliamentary basis is, but that is why I also drew the little attention to the fact that the parliamentary basis is to me the parties from which the Government is founded. The parliamentary basis will be a possible majority structure, which supports the government's establishment in the government offices. In this way, in the case of the Central Party, it would have to be considered as part of the parliamentary basis for some minority governments from the Workers' Party, because it is because the Centre Party has twice pointed to the Workers' Party, that there were workers' party governments. So we see ourselves as part of the parliamentary basis for the new government, but not necessarily as part of the parliamentary basis. These are the three government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e543	In the last few weeks, the Stortinget and all of Norway have been more or less forced to participate in Carl I. Hagen's history of suffering and broken dreams, and he has made it quite clear to everyone that he intends to take reasonable care of himself for torture and pangs. And today, he's making a proposal here that's going to be kind of a constitutional Knipetang maneuver to make it clear to everyone that he's in, and that he has to be seen. But what is Carl I. Hagen has intended to use his power for? Taxlets have been the lead cause of the Advance Party. But the question is, who's going to have the tax haven, and who's going to have it first? For SV, it is obvious that tax relief must be given first to those who have the least, and first to those who receive high taxes because they are ill or disabled. This has been an important campaign theme. But we, who were on the Storting in the last period, remember what happened then. What happened last time the Progress Party had its hand on the steering wheel in a budget, in 1997? Well, then the tax on disease increased by 700 million. kr more. Never before have the sick and disabled been taken as hard as the last time Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party had a hand on the wheel. At that time it was more important to pay zero tax to dividend millionaires than to do something for those who were sick and also had poor advice. Can Carl I. Hagen, the next time he gets a flood light on himself, see disabled and chronically ill people in Norway in his eyes and say: not one penny in tax bills for millionaires until the tax on disease, self-esteem, is greatly reduced – that is the demands of the Advance Party for the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e548	I can assure you that when the budget line in the harvest is probably going to port, we will be able to see the weakest groups in the eyes. We're going to be proud of what we might have been into. I can assure you that. I don't think you should start comparing it to 1997 -- that's four years ago. The political situation has changed dramatically. The role of the Progress Party changed dramatically during the first two years of the previous period. We don't need to repeat what we were doing back then in the situation that we had to implement. That job is done. The situation of the propulsion party is different. We have also – let's say – been better organized in the last year, so that we appear in a more positive way than we might have done, even though someone has tried to say something wrong about it. But now after the election we seem relatively good in our opinion. We will continue to fight for the things we have said in the election campaign, including. to increase their tax-free rebates by lower and medium-income. We already announced in the election campaign what we would do with the minimum deduction and the personal deduction just to help them with low incomes, and we were in fact fighting to increase the basic amount of popular wealth at the last social security settlement in spring, just to help all those who depended on public benefits that are basic money regulated. SV was also opposed to increasing the basic amount when we proposed it. So the SV can take it quite calmly – they will still get tough competition if they want to take care of those who need it the most in this country. There is nothing to be ashamed of in relation to the other parties. So there's no pinching maneuver we're doing. We're simply trying to say that what's real, and what's happening in public space in terms of government formation, should also happen internally in the Storting itself – that it's a government shift because a majority in this room has said that you want a government shift. We simply lead into the Storting what is actually happening outside of Storting, and that makes sense in terms of our management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e555	Let me start by thanking Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party for supporting a government change. We are fully aware that we were totally dependent on it in order for the new government to be able to form. We will also promise constructive and clean cooperation on a case-by-case basis. I understand that the representative Carl I. Hagen has said here today about the government's basis, is the same thing as he said before outside the storeroom, and that's all right. And I can follow the analogy that Carl I. Hagen here uses, compared to when the Harlem Brundtland government was formed after the fall of the Syse government. It wasn't right after a choice, it was after a government fell in another way, but in reality it was that the Senterpartiet pointed to Gro Harlem Brundtland, which made it possible to form such a government. So I see it as a confirmation of what he has said outside the hall before. We are pleased with the connection to much of what is stated in the Sem Declaration – the brilliant Sem Declaration, I will add. From our human point of view, we have some clear restraints when it comes to abortion, biotechnology, researching cells, etc. I assume that Carl I. Hagen, who read political documents thoroughly, has also read this, and in some of these areas in the past, there has been a certain difference between what is in the Sem Declaration and the Progress Party's policy. I'm not going to go into this, but is there any hope that there will be a follow-up to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e562	Of course, the programme of the Progress Party is the basis for our work here in the house. Our policies have not changed. My proposal, which says that the statement presented to the Storting is accepted, does not mean that we join everything that is there, but that means that we give an overall acceptance that it as a whole is better than the census that was carried out by the outgoing government. And -- I want to clear that misunderstanding -- if you think it means that we're joining everything that says word for word, we don't. We're going to start on individual issues from our party program, but on a government issue, it's always an overall assessment. It's just the parties that are in the government, that are bound by everything that's there. The rest of us have to deal with big global assessments, and that's what we've manifested, that we think this is a better basis for a government than what the departed one stood for. That's what makes us separate from the other parties, who have a different opinion about what kind of government the country should have. So that doesn't mean a change in our policy. Otherwise, I think it was nice that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party – because I am aware that there is no joint parliamentary leader of the government parties – that means that Jon Lilletun speaks on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right in this Chamber, and not on behalf of the Government, unless they should say anything about it – is also pleased that we have set up and supported the Government. We might have hoped in certain contexts that what is happening in the national Parliament would also reproduce a little beyond the country. We have had a lot of resistance in our own hands to giving support to the change of government because of the treatment given to part of our municipal government representatives and county representatives from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We had believed and hoped that what happened on a national basis might have a certain effect on what happened locally, and it is with a certain sadness that I find that in the Christian People's Party it is certain that in such an area one sometimes does the opposite of what is common folk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e569	History shows that different parties are heard in various elections. I understand that in this election it is the representative Hagen who feels begged. And it is true that the Advance Party has played a remarkable role in the post-election events associated with the change of government. Through the various events this autumn, the influence of the Progress Party has emerged quite clearly, and it is no less at the post that Carl I. Hagen had today. The central party is not pleased with the influence the Progress Party seems to be getting at the work of the Government. We are concerned about the consequences for the living conditions of those living in the districts, for those working in the district industries, and for environmental and distribution policies in this country. That's why we hope that the new minority government will extend far in order to obtain a majority of parties other than the Advance Party in these kinds of cases. Verbally, the representative Carl I. Hagen is strong in relation to the demands of the Progress Party to the Government. It remains to be seen how the Progress Party is going to deal with the specific issues. I would like Carl I. Hagen to elaborate on this: to what extent will the Progress Party accept that what we have now received is actually a minority government, which hopefully makes enough sense to be able to deal with a majority of parties other than the Progress Party in matters such as: district, distribution and environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e578	As far as distribution policy is concerned, the representative does not have to be concerned at all, because the Progress Party has been fighting for a long time to improve the mechanisms I mentioned in terms of basic regulation and social security benefits. We have fought for legal rights to the necessary hospital treatment. It's been stopped by the Center Party. Now, in fact, after the election, we're going to get what the Center Party has finally decided, namely, the legal right to treatment. And maybe we can eventually also get something reasonable about stopping the unworthy old age care blackmail and getting it government-funded, based on legal rights for home help and home care and the need for technical assistance for the disabled. This is what we wanted. Here, the Central Party, which takes care of the self-interest of local politicians, actually stops us from being transferred to the state, with government-designated funding directly to users and the public – also based on the introduction of input-based funding throughout the care of the elderly. So the representative doesn't have to worry about this. We are fully aware that we can have influence on some things – where the Government knows in so far as it presents matters, whether it can expect to receive support from the Progress Party. It will be in many things. I'd tip that in about. 80 pst. Of the cases, the government has to base itself on the fact that it's with us that they're going to have a majority, and then it's going to be 20 pst. of the cases which it will rely on having a majority of SV and a majority of the Labour Party. And we accept that. Obviously, we accept that. It's a minority government. It's nothing of what I've said that indicates anything but that it's a minority government. But the basis for it coming into the world is different than in some things. We also know that we have to negotiate on a case-by-case basis, find sensible compromises, as has been said, between the parties that have negotiated a government platform. It is clear that when the Progress Party and the government parties negotiate here in the house, it must be because we need to find solutions that both parties see fit. We are fully aware of the fact that we cannot demand the introduction of a purely progressive party policy in one area or another. It won't work. There must be mutual respect for finding solutions for both parties – I stress both parties – can see themselves served.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e587	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e590	SV won the roll-out election in 2001. We did that because we were fighting for the things that we have the greatest credibility in, and that we believe is most important for the future. We fought to renovate the school. We've done that, without getting the sound of the ear, many years before. In the election campaign, many parties agreed with us. We fought to eliminate unworthy poverty in one of the world's richest countries, and even that was heard by many other parties in the election campaign. We fought to make the most important environmental choices here at home, for ourselves, but also for the global environmental issues. But we didn't just fight for things, because we also mobilised values. We challenged the voters to be on that mammoth test there is to say, "What do people mean?" Can we stand for the choices we make today, in ten years' time, in twenty years' time? We mobilized what was the alternative to right-wing policy, the option to plunge into his wallet and vote with the credit card and have the horizon just for the next month. Norwegian policy polarized itself. SV was the option to the right-hand policy. We've also put a lot of emphasis on telling voters and other parties what we have on the heart itself. It's very quickly done in politics to get the most concerned about how tense the others are, and not remember to get along with what you're actually burning for yourself. That's what we've been working for consciously. The biggest change since the previous deposit election is SV's and Right's good election result and the Workers' Party's poor election result. The biggest change since the previous municipal election is SV's progress. The right has stood still for the last two years. So it's hard to say that it's flooded a right wave over Norway. Had we could have postponed the election for a week or two or three more, maybe SV had managed to mobilize even more for the most important questions that we had on our heart. So the result of this election is that SV has made its best choice ever, that we have 23 big business representatives and have never had more, but also that we have had a significant renewal, and now we have a big business group with nine representatives under 35 years of age. SV won the election, and the right side won the government power. And I wonder very much, because after the election came the Labour Party election budget. It is true, as Jens Stoltenberg says, that this was a budget that followed up the matters they had talked about in the election campaign. But it wasn't a budget that was related to the government that Stoltenberg had prioritised in the time they actually had government power. That's why the voters didn't believe it. It is also strange to see that the Center Party now comes with invitations to the Workers' Party in the first place. But if they focus on their own policies, you can see that in many political issues they are closer than the Workers' Party. I would really like them to get on the track a little earlier. Then it would have been possible to mobilise for something that could prevent us from having a right-wing project in Norwegian politics for four years now. But now the challenge for us, for the Workers' Party and for the Centre Party is that the opposition is able to develop cooperation, with respect for different policies, but with the will to negotiate what is most important. But in SV we are more impatient than that. Sitting on the butt and believing the right thing for four years doesn't fit us. We want to challenge the government that has now come, and we are a at least as interesting opposition party as the Workers' Party. In practice, we have renewed considerably. SV is a consolidated party, and we have a very clear mandate from the voters to fight for school, fight for justice and fight for the environment. The Bondevik government has managed because the Christian People's Party has taken sides. They got the prime minister. The right was given a majority in the Government, and the most concrete promises in the Government Declaration are those of the Right Heart. Hagen received daily attention, special treatment, the head of the financial committee and subscription to influence in economic policy. Now the Right-State Councils are radiant of triumph and desire for action – right, Clement? – while I think that the Christian People’s Party state councils look a little more mobile. They look like they're on their way into a long-distance transport that four-legged people often have to enter. Since there are so many slaughterhouses that are now centralised, there is a long road and a heavy load, and they see that on the other side is waiting for what cannot be reversed. But one of the major issues in Norwegian politics in these four years is going to be: How much right-wing policy actually tolerates the Christian People's Party? Many of the leaders of the Christian People's Party have chosen Christian People's Party on values, not on Right Policy. Many of the leaders of the Christian People's Party have chosen the Christian People's Party on values that are closer to us in many areas. This government has Right-wing policy as its main project. It's Bondevik who gets the big words, and the right who gets the big money. The most concrete feature of the Sem Declaration is the tax relief. In relation to this Right-wing policy, both in terms of tax relief and structural policy, SV will be a clear opposition party. We're fighting for what's the option of distributing billions and most of all to those who have a lot from before, that's to bet on the common good, rust up the school and fight poverty. There are many, many voters who are going to be thoroughly disillusioned if not the result of this election is a gigantic upgrading of the whole educational community. SV's election result is a clear signal to the other parties that this is most urgent. As we all know, kids grow fast. The most urgent thing is to prioritize high school. Those who don't associate fortnightly should get someone. Those who haven't been to a high school in the last few months should take a walk. There they meet the growing family – a little backward, and when you ask, "What in the world are you doing here," they say, "No, I'm sitting here and getting ripe!" Are they going to sit there and mature for four years without seeing society around take a real boost compared to school? I can't. There are so many opportunities to make teaching more exciting, to get it more in line with society around, and to equip the school both in terms of equipment and in terms of money to actually move the teaching out, or to invite someone from the community around to school. It has to be in place. We want to mobilise voters – outside Stortinget – to get to this. Many of those who are concerned about this have to realize that they have to get on the road and help us set the requirements, so that we win some of the priority fights as well. SV is going to challenge the Government and be in clear opposition to the important distribution policy and economic policy, but also challenge the Government where the Christian People's Party will in particular be dependent on a party that is closer to them, for example. in environmental policy, as the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will be. We believe that there needs to be a completely different way of thinking about the issue of energy. We can't, as a large energy producing country and as one of the world's major consuming countries, think that the energy question is something we're going to produce from. We need to have a debate on how to save and exploit the energy we actually have, in a much more efficient way. We have to be able to combine the red and the green. We are proposing today a two-price system for households in terms of electricity taxes. Today, the first stream you use is more expensive than the last. Today it is more expensive for a minimum pensioner to cook the potatoes than it is for a cabin baron on Hafjell to put heat cables in the garage. It should be sniffed. There are two things to do: both to pursue a fairer distribution policy and to get to a folk sport, so that everyone can save energy. We regret that the government of Stoltenberg was ready to grant tax subsidies to expand Snow White. We note the formulations of the Sem Declaration, where it also seems that the Christian People's Party has given itself to this. This is a project with significant CO2 emissions, but it is also a project in a very vulnerable area for the management of future fisheries resources. Think about it! If the Bondevik government wants something to do in the environmental sector, if you want a stronger commitment to new renewable energy, and think differently about environmental policy and energy policy than the Workers' Party did – the last government council they had, is probably the state council in recent times that has adopted more CO2 emissions than anyone – it is the Swedish Labour Party that has to be negotiated with. We are willing to negotiate environmental policy. We want results on this. The same may apply to several other areas. In the case of labour immigration, I see that the government of Bondevik refers to SV. We are interested in negotiating on this issue. But we do not want the right mindset in this area. We also have major challenges in getting many of those currently parked on the side of the labour market into the labour market, and labour immigration must not be a substitute for it and make it more difficult. There are also a number of ethical issues in which the SV and the Christian People's Party have had many common points in particular, and which are possible areas of negotiation between us. SV did not get to celebrate the election victory properly until the World Trade Center crashed in front of our eyes. In this situation, how cruel terrorist acts are and everyone becomes aware of how vulnerable you are, everything with Norwegian policy is getting rather small, and everything we are discussing today is shrinking. The first days after this act of terror, we feared a blind retaliation from the United States, which did not come at first. The United States made broader alliances – with Russia, China and many Arab countries – than we could fear in advance, and that is important. But on 8 October, the acts of war against Afghanistan began. This has led to direct civilian losses, but probably the humanitarian disaster following the war can lead to many more and much greater losses. Now the winter is at hand in Afghanistan. Helping organisations request a stoppage for humanitarian aid. A bomb stop should be implemented for that reason and the United Nations should have the opportunity to come in and find a political solution. In the SV we fear that these acts of war will lead to instability in the whole region, in Pakistan and in other countries nearby, and that this could lead to new recruitment to terror. Everyone is aware that bin Laden was recruited by the CIA in its time, because at that time it was the main enemy of the Soviet Union, and it was about getting the Soviet out of Afghanistan. Bin Laden wasn't alone. He was recruited with many, many more, who are now responsible for terrorist acts in many types of countries. Algeria, e.g. has the same background. This is also linked to the situation in the Middle East. It would be of great importance to be able to establish Palestine as an independent state in the face of the conflict. But it also calls for questioning not only the amount of intelligence, but also the quality of the intelligence that is going on. I guess no one is gathering more information about anyone than the CIA. But do they understand what the new threat picture is, and do you know what you're actually looking for? That's an existential question. Today, news reported that class bombs are also used over Afghanistan. Then I must remind the House that Afghanistan is one of the countries in the world which are today most affected by landmines. 16 pst. of the land areas are areas where movement is not possible. And Afghanistan is a very difficult country, it takes a good miner one day to get over 20 m2. This may have consequences that are very serious in the long term. We also ask ourselves, when is it believed that these acts of war and this military action have succeeded, and when is it to stop? In the extension of this terrorist action, it is important that Norway engages in a new debate on what is really defence. When you're so vulnerable to actionists and terrorists who are willing to set their own lives for, you don't need much more a wallpaper knife and good planning to be able to hit so hard. We want a new defence debate on the real security issues, so that we can defend ourselves against what is really the threat in 2001. I would like to take up the suggestions from SV, which are distributed in places.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e648	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e654	SV and the Workers' Party are two different parties, with two different applications and different positions in many cases. At the same time, we have common values and common positions in many cases. It concerns important parts of the distribution policy, and not least important parts of the issue of expanding our common welfare systems, whether there are more kindergartens, better public health services, better care for the elderly or a better school. The difference is often that SV has something more money faster than us. But in recent years, we've been able to double the number of kindergartens. Now we want to complete the work of providing full babysitting and getting to cheaper kindergartens. We have carried out major school reforms. We've expanded teaching time to a full school year by implementing Reform 97, and we've given high school to everyone. Now we want to move on to refurbish the schools. There we have a lot in common with SV and want to cooperate with SV. But there are probably two areas where there has often been disagreement. One concerns the view of industrial policy and value creation. We are concerned that we should pursue an industrial policy that makes it possible to have profitable, good enterprises in Norway. There we often feel that we have not had the same recognition to the same degree in SV. The second, on which I am more uncertain, is the question of the renewal of the public sector. I am to spend more money on our public common well-being goods. We need that if we're going to have a good school and a good public health service. But I'm just as busy spending my money better. Because there is no country in the world that has higher expenditures per year. students other than Norway. Still, we have too bad a school. There is no country across Europe with more doctors and nurses compared to the number of inhabitants than Norway. Nevertheless, we have a lack of play, a lack of nurses and a very poor health care system. And there is hardly any country that has had a stronger growth in the number of government employees – 37 new employees per year. the last ten years — and that is why we are committed to renewing the public sector in order to get more out of what we put in. The question is: will SV be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e661	Yes, it's true, as Jens Stoltenberg says, that we are two different parties, with different policies and different priorities. And I would probably add an area where there's quite a difference between the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and that's in environmental policy and energy policy. But if we're going to get a cooperation – SV has made that recognition a while ago that we can make good choices, but we're barely getting over 50 pst. – in order to have an influence on Norwegian policy, we must negotiate with other parties. We thought it was a clear step forward when the Workers' Party prioritised kindergartens rather than abolishing the investment fee from 1 April, for example. After all, we have made clear choices towards our political choices. So even if you're going to have to shut up from others for that, you can get a little bit of commendation from SV for that priority. So what's the big challenge for the Workers' Party, for SV, on the left, to be able to create a welfare society that has broad support from most people? It is to be able to create collective solutions for individualists. And if we're going to be able to streamline the public sector, the starting point is that the biggest value of the public sector is the ones working there. That is why public sector renewal must be done on a regular basis. In SV we have discussed this quite a lot, and in my and SV's opinion, the most effective way to achieve renewal in the public sector is to delegate power and authority. There is a lot of expertise and a lot of smart minds around — in each school, in each kindergarten, in each municipality. That's where the renewal is actually going to happen. There has been a long process with us. I've been the world champion in ear tagging, for example. I think a lot more of the funds have to go down and be able to process there. The same applies, for example: the school sector. There is now a system in the school sector. If you're going to have extra resources for a class, you have to find students in that class who need special education, and billions of dollars go that way. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] That means you have to look for problems in order to get money. [[The President Clubs Again]] It could have been thought the other way around: to introduce different types of bonuses for those who do well, as proposed by SV. Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e674	I will first take the opportunity to congratulate Kristin Halvorsen and SV with a good choice! In the previous period, there were enough people who looked at SV as a charming feature that spoke nicely about school, kindergarten and the environment. While the Workers' Party is now licking its wounds, SV is becoming the driving force on the left hand side, and the party can become a power factor. It is nice for SV, but serious for Norwegian policy. In this election SV was elected to a large group that has participated in the adoption of a principal programme in Socialist Youth, where it has, among other things, are called for the revolution and the abolition of private property rights. Now it's not my opinion that Kristin Halvorsen should be at the heart of the group's youth sins, but several of the members of the SV's population group have declared after the election that they will fight for this programme in Stortinget. The program is not exactly characterized by modern radicalism, but by a rather reactionary socialism. I guess Kristin Halvorsen has read the program, since it was removed from the Socialist Youth website on the Internet. I'm not going to ask how Kristin Halvorsen deals with the program, because I assume she'll say she's against most of what's there. My question to Kristin Halvorsen is how she relates to the considerable number of her own group who have declared that they will work for a program that calls for both the revolution and the abolition of private property rights – in other words, a rather reactionary socialism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e683	It's a very simple answer to this question. The selected members of the SV Storage Group are selected in the SV Application. I'm done with it. It all has to do with it. That's it. You have to ask me what is in SV's program, I am willing to answer at any time, but for something else we or our big group are not responsible. So I'd like to say to the representative Sanner that having a little charm is not a disadvantage, but just being a charming feature of the policy doesn't hold if you're going to get any results. But in practice, we have been able to renew SV quite significantly over the last few years. We have also managed to gather on a consolidated policy where we want to renew Norway in many areas, where we also want to give very clear notice to our voters that we will fight to achieve the best possible results, and cooperate with other parties about it. So that's the right thing to do -- we have a lead on the Workers' Party there that we're going to know to exploit. It is a great advantage to have a large group that not only has experience but also has innovation. It's not like that in this world that too many think new and bold thoughts. It is that this world is marked by hunger, poverty and environmental problems, and that many should set themselves the goal of changing it, so that no one on a planet that really has more than enough will suffer distress and death because the distribution is unfair. It is a great strength for us if we manage to do just that, to keep the visions there – and we will – and at the same time have the practical policy that can actually lead to a change in the world. That is our political project, and I would like to discuss it with the Right many, many times, but also challenge both the Christian People's Party, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. We have so many possibilities that the Storting doesn't have to drown in chapters and records every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e692	Since there are so many who are so kind and friendly today, let me join and congratulate SV on a good choice. But I think Kristin Halvorsen is a little daring when she says that because SV has advanced some percentages, there is a massive demand from all of Norway to implement SV's election cases. I'd like to remind you that SV is the fourth largest – they've probably moved upwards. I must also be allowed to say that when you look at the Workers' Party and SV in sum, this is a decrease. So the dramatic thing about this election was actually, as I said, that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have lost the majority they've had in the last 40 years. Of course, the fact that SV has squeezed a part from the Workers' Party is correct. So Kristin Halvorsen says that you can't produce yourself out of the energy crisis. Why in the world shouldn't we try to do that? Why in the world should we not say that we think it is nice that we can have ample access to energy for Norwegian households, preferably at the lowest price possible? That must be nice! Is it really the case that Kristin Halvorsen thinks that ordinary Norwegian households use too much electricity, and that they should therefore not use a dishwasher and rather wash it themselves? Should they stop using washing machine, stop using vacuum cleaners? Is it the guy that's going to stop using drill, or the electric lawn mower? Is that what's meant, is that most people should go back to the old days and deal with hand tools instead of using the electrical things we now have? I thought it was nice that part of the work done at home, which was previously considered heavy work, was now provided with technical aids. Why in the world can't we try to say yes to gas power stations and get sufficient and abundant access to energy? Then I am also interested in hearing, when she talks so much about efficiency, modernisation and innovation: why doesn't she want to participate in more competition? Competition in the production of goods and services is the only safe way to achieve efficiency. Does she disagree that competition is what really creates efficiency? And when she talks about bonuses for those who do well in school, does that mean that even S.B. now accepts that skilled teachers, who show that they are more competent than others, deserve to get higher pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e703	There was only one cut in the joy of celebrating SV's election results, and it was that we were unable to become Norway's third largest party. The party of progress hit us. But of course, it helped a little bit that we grew larger than the Christian People's Party – for the sake of sport. But as for the content of Hagen's line, there's a couple of things about energy saving that he might want to learn. I have fun and use it, but it's not the big energy consumption using a drill. What determines how much energy households use is how hot they are. There's a lot to pick up for most people when it comes to saving energy, and there's a lot you could do to encourage just that. So I think there are a lot of Carl I. Hagen's voters who haven't realized that if you put down the electricity charge with an equal number of dollars for everyone, maybe the minimum pensioner Hansen makes a few hundred bills on it, but the cabin barons on Hafjell do make thousands of bills, and they have big houses at home too – so there are thousands of bills, while the little ones go to those who have the least. That is a bad policy for distribution. If we were to be able to combine two things, it would just be to take into account that in a cold country everyone needs to have a little bit of heat, but at the same time we have to do it so that it pays off for everyone to save. We have found that combination in terms of a two-price system for the electricity charge. Then you don't get the cash distributions that the Advance Party's policy really means. But it's no wonder this is a strange land for Carl I. Hagen, because Carl I. Hagen doesn't think there are any climate problems. Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party believe that there are depressive socialists who have discovered that climate problems exist in the world. It's actually completely wrong. There are now significant impacts of anthropogenic CO2 emissions that cannot continue. It means the whole world except Carl I. Hagen, and then I think that exactly in this case he doesn't have much to go with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e712	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Kristin Halvorsen on a new and large big group. Kristin Halvorsen said in his speech that this cooperative government was a right-wing project. At the same time, he expressed great will and desire to have influence and influence. So has SV gone in the direction of Right? I don't want to call this a Right Project. Cooperation is a collaboration between all three parties, both the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. I feel that all the parties have had an impact and impact, and everyone has stood together to get this done. We have achieved a better and more offensive environmental policy. We get a great school policy, and that with the youth class, which the representative was in his post, is also mentioned in the Sem Declaration as a special challenge. We have a good family policy, a good industrial policy and an offensive district policy and welfare policy. If it looks as if the Christian People's Party is on its way to the slaughterhouse: we are not at all. We are eager to address the challenge ahead of us. I am pleased that the Cooperation Agency has a clear value base in its documents. Christian People's Party and SV have also had a parallel view of genetic and biotechnology. The Labour Party has always moved in a more liberal direction. The co-operation management will lay down a precautionary principle and require explicit approval for the use of new bio- and genetic technologies and the extension of action. The co-operation management says it will evaluate the Biotechnology Act with a view to a revision. Since SV now signals so clearly that they want to influence: How does SV intend to exploit the potential here, to be able to influence this in a direction that SV has previously offensively spoken about in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e723	The Right-Profile or Christian People's Party profile that this Government had to have, I guess we'll see when the changes to the state budget come, and perhaps especially when proposals to the state budget come next year. Then you'll see who won the different draw matches. But SV can read, and in the Sem Declaration, it is simply that the concrete promises are about taxation policy. There are billions mentioned. In the other areas, which are closer to the core areas of the Christian People's Party, there are much less money and less concrete promises. What is said about genetic and biotechnology and the precautionary principle, we have noticed with interest. It's one of the things I crashed a little quickly into my post. There I see that if the government is going to get this through in Stortinget, SV is the nearest party to negotiate with. But of course we'll discuss what's going to be the content, we'll go into that discussion and promote our demands. This is an area where we are interested in negotiating for a responsible policy for the future. But I also want to remind you that there is a directive on patents in life, where perhaps an extended ethical debate belongs. We are disappointed that the Christian People's Party has not adopted a more offensive position on this matter. This is a matter that Stortinget should have for treatment. We and the Central Party have put forward proposals on that today, so you are free to participate in an important and essential ethical debate, where the Christian People's Party and the SV have agreed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e730	In many areas, there is a large distance between the Centre Party and SV. We are deeply disunityed in SV's lack of understanding in order to safeguard private property rights, we distinguish layers of defence policy and of business policy. We are frustrated that SV does not have a better road view is a very important district policy. We focus on different value issues differently. At the same time, the EU fight created new alliances. SV, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party found themselves together in matters under the heading: Government, environment, solidarity nationally and internationally; it has also been shown in the Stortinge on various issues over several years when it comes to the environment, distribution and districts. We still want to contribute to cooperation in these areas. The Central Party and SV should now challenge the Government in concrete areas. Let me focus on two. All the tribute to the SV who put poverty eradication on the agenda of the election campaign, of course. The Central Party has six proposals for immediate action in the 2002 budget in Stortinget. Now we have enough words for everyone in this area. As responsible for the smoothing message, I would like to stress the need to have something done already in the forthcoming budget. Then SV is occupied by a better school. An arrangement for a better school, in which the Central Party agrees, is a better local economy. Now we have two proposals that I think should be a signal from this debate. The one proposal concerns the creation of the current imbalance in the municipal sector, and the other is to secure the municipalities that are now planning to do so within the older sector, in favour of their implementation. I hope SV will support those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e741	The centre party and SV and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the undersigned should be able to cooperate even more than what we have actually done so far. I find the signals coming from the Senterpartiet interesting, but I think they're legally late. So the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV had a majority in what was a big deal, without being able to cooperate in such a way that we could do something with what we thought was most important. The fight against poverty was not an electoral campaign for SV. Fighting poverty in Norway, we have been fighting and herring in this great hall for years without having a majority. We're glad that that commitment also exists in the Center Party, and of course we like to work together to get some results in that area. The picture that's drawn, that the Center Party is the most consistent district party, I don't know. We really need to do a lot of things to maintain housing in the districts – mainly exciting jobs so that the ladies will come back and be there. But it also applies to transport. We in SV believe that in the central strata transport is a scandal, for example. in Oslo. The T-Bahn slows down to 30 km/h on two eastern tracks. It's been over 30 years since the T-Bahn was finished, new and fun and nice. With lots of oil crowns on the book, we can't afford to maintain it, so modern people prefer the T-Bahn instead of taking a car to work! But in the districts it's not useful to build the T-Bahn. In the districts, you have to make sure that you have a road standard to get your goods out of business and that you run racial protection, so that your children have a safe school route. So here we simply have to work together on different transport policies, in any case. But what will be most important is that we are able to secure a real local economy. And then I'm actually excited to see what kind of priorities the center party is going to do. Odd Roger Enoksen was up here earlier and was closed in order for the investment fee decision to be implemented as of 1 April. Is it more important for the Centre Party than to strengthen the local economy? We'll have to wait and see. The local economy is not on our side – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e750	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e754	It's especially to open the newspapers and see the news these days. As the Prime Minister said in his statement when the Government joined, many of us feel that the values that make us safe and free people are true. We live in a globalized society and can therefore not be the frame of the terrorist attack on the United States. It's an event that touches us all in our everyday lives. It's a blow to the values we're so lucky to have in our part of the world -- freedom and security. We're reminded that these are not values that we can take for granted. Terrorism is not just about the defence to do; terror is a threat to civil society, and perpetuate each and every one of us. The government has now said that she in Stortinget will be doing well for actions that we face as a result of the terrorist attack on 11 September. Here we can use the Vulnerability Committee and the organization of police, defence and intelligence. I am pleased that the Government takes this seriously and shows action already in its first days. However, the most important thing is to look at the core of terrorism and take seriously the injustice that has engulfed these attacks. The best way we can stifle terrorism is through the international fight against poverty and for development. The government will strengthen Norway's solidarity with those who are poor or persecuted and lira naked. Norway shall be at the forefront of international cooperation for development, debt relief and human rights. Then we should also remember, in the wake of the attack on the United States and what is now happening in Afghanistan, that the tragic humanitarian smolt disaster and the huge refugee dream had taken place before the United States went into action. The suffering we see in Afghanistan now is more a result of many decades of mismanagement and war in Afghanistan than a consequence of the bombing. But it should not minimize the seriousness of how the civilian population is doing. We all have to stand up to help. When we talk about poverty, it's easy to forget those who like this home when there's as many people as there are somewhere else. But the poor children of Norway are a common shame to our nation, and one poor family in our rich country is one too much. Now, on the other hand, it is time to put the question of blame, who and what is the cause, behind us and then take responsibility forward. We are going to further develop welfare systems and fight the poverty problems in Norway. The government has said that it will present a plan of targeted measures to help people out of poverty, with a particular focus on improving living conditions for the poor families with children. This is one of the most important challenges for the Government in the future. And even though I may not be objective, I would say that there is no government statement and a basis for a government statement like the Sem declaration that has been more offensive in that way, anywhere in this room. There's a difference between what one said in the election campaign when it broke these games. The government also has a credible value policy. It will be based on values that respect for human life and human dignity personal responsibility freedom for the individual human beings protection of family stewards responsibility close love and care for the weakest This government will take a new political course in important areas. She will find solutions with respect for the community and for freedom. She will not renew and change primarily through collective solutions and state governance, as the Social Democracy and Labour Party have tradition, but will take care of welfare arrangements and find the balance in this. Social democracy makes us believe that increasing personal freedom means weakening the solutions to the community. This government believes that there is no contradiction between strengthening the community's values and at the same time strengthening the social responsibility of the individual. Cooperation governments put the individual in the centre of their policies. Human beings come out in interaction with others. Therefore, the individual's outcome must be weighed up against responsibility for others. All human beings have equal value and shall be respected and then shot. In a rapidly changing society, anchoring values is important. The Government Declaration - and Sem document - have a very good section on the anchoring of values. This is one of the areas where there is clearly a difference between a cooperative government of the kind we see today, and what we have seen when it comes to the value foundations on which the workers' party governments have built. Such a beneficial value is also respect for those who are different. If a serious person with such a value is serious, one cannot respect and raise only what one of you has written in it. One is content to take care of other people's right to choose another's personal, faithful, and other lives. This government will focus on a lack of unity. The co-operation government will promote a welfare society where the individual takes co-responsibility and feels that a person belongs to, through family, community and voluntary engagement. Human beings have both material and spiritual needs, and this government will respect them. The family is the most important frame around its child’s upbringing. The co-operation management will ensure freedom of choice through cash support and the development of kindergartens. A requirement for increased freedom of choice and equal opportunities for young children’s parents is that families with children have the financial resources to choose the form of care and that more and more spacious childcare facilities are available. An important objective of cooperation management is also to work towards full child-care coverage during 2003, among others. by non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. In the long term, we will also gather all the public contributions to the kindergartens into one direct contribution to the individual nursery. Taxes and charges will be reduced to allow families to retain more of their own income. Economic freedom for parents to adapt their time to their children’s needs is a prerequisite for good growth conditions. The co-operation administration wants to bring back space of action and responsibility to the individual family, to the individual. This does not mean that Community solutions will be weakened, but that their options will be strengthened. Equality is an important value that must be reflected in family policy. Women and men shall have equal dishes, including in the family. Even if the family is a private institution, the public must go to ensure real equality. A very important section of the Government Declaration is the Section on Knowledge and Competence. Citation: ‘The Government’s aim is for Norway to become a nation that is close to international in terms of new technologies, competences and knowledge. Norway is rich in natural resources. Nevertheless, the values and attitudes of the population, their knowledge and competence, are the largest resource in Norway’s future. The government will therefore increase the focus on education and skills.The school will disseminate cultural heritage, education, values and knowledge. It shall assist children in mastering, unfolding and social development. The government will equip the public school for both education, material and premises. Special emphasis shall be placed on strengthening the skills of students in reading, writing and billing. The ICT bet is continued. The State shall contribute to a comprehensive loan programme in order to ensure good and appropriate school buildings. Teachers and school leaders must be guaranteed competitive pay and teacher training strengthened.The government will improve the private school law. The eligibility criteria will be simplified and the school’s financial basis strengthened.The Norwegian Government will gradually increase its research effort to at least an average OECD level by 2005. A significant part of the escalation shall be used for fundamental research. Tax incentives will be introduced for companies’ research and development activities.» The Christian People's Party announced in the election campaign that we would look for other options, if not the voters gave the necessary strength to the center option. The people have asked for a new government, and the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left made the choice that we were an alternative to the sitting government's policy. A center party's nature is that it can cooperate both to the right and to the left, and now we've put a good foundation together with the left and the right. The policy of the Sem Declaration provides a good starting point for both district, distribution and environmental policies, where the centre parties traditionally have our critical to the right. The Sem declaration has captured the best in the policy of all three government parties. That's why a co-conspirator's party advised that the Christian People's Party could go to government with the Right. It was precisely because we had had a positive impact on good Christian People's Party policies in important areas such as agricultural and rural policy, good education and research policy, the fight against poverty nationally and internationally, solidarity, good environmental policy and a solidly anchored value base. I want to commend the other two parties, not least the big brother, because we have actually received such a good document and such a good government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e836	The Christian People's Party held elections on the slogan "vote to a Prime Minister", and the Christian People's Party has been given the Prime Minister in a Right-dominated Government. Jon Lilletun has today very highly thanked Carl I. Hagen as the birth aid for this government – which they will also rely on in the future, it sounds like. Kjell Magne Bondevik and the Christian People's Party were quite clear that a $40 billion tax bill was completely out of date when they were running election campaigns, because this would go beyond welfare, for example. funds for assistance, education, childcare and distribution policies. The Christian People's Party believed that $13 billion was the maximum tax that could be defended in relation to the welfare supply that was necessary. But after a delay in Sem, 13 billion changed to 31 – they changed numbers – from 13 to 31, and it could mean a reduction in the provision of well-being when a tax relief of the size of one of these has gone by. I want to say that in very many questions there is a Christian People's Party closer to the Labour Party than to the Right. I'm glad that the government is stifling the Workers' Party's proposal when it comes to upgrading school buildings, which are absolutely necessary. Lilletun said that full babysitting is important. Then I would like to remind you of the Labour Party's proposal to create more kindergartens and reduce parental payments in kindergartens – one billion every year in the four years that come. This will mean something for families, for children, for all welfare. Is it this way – because I don't find much about kindergartens in the government statement – that one has gone from investing in as many kindergartens as the Christian People's Party promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e845	That's exactly what Frøiland's representative points out, that we've moved. It's not always a goal to stand still. It is such that cooperation must of course be based on giving and taking. I thought that a leader article in the VG on Bondevik's statement expressed this in a good way. That's how you say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e850	‘The three government parties Right, KRF and Left have clearly put many of their political leaders in the stable to agree on a common political future over the next four years. The three parties deserve it. For too long we have had a situation in which the parties' own special interests have gone ahead of the nation's.» It's VG's opinion. My point is that we keep ours. We said $40 billion was too much. That's still it. So that's going to be 31. And it's actually like six of those billions we had an agreement with the Labour Party about in the budget last year, but as they didn't think there was a reason to hold. Therefore, we feel that we are upright on what has come, even though there was more tax relief than we had imagined in advance. When it comes to kindergartens, I think in my post I was quite so clear. I said that the plan to reach full child care coverage in 2003 is firm, and that kindergartens should become more spacious. So there's the clear signal in the Sem statement, in the government statement and in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e859	Prime Minister Bondevik did not mention in his Declaration of Accession the country's more than one million pensioners with a single word. The representative Lilletun was also not very interested in talking about the pensioners in his post today, when he spoke for 10 minutes. I find this strange. That is why I need to challenge the representative Lilletun in the field of pensioners. The party of progress has fought for a number of years to correct the wrong that has become married to part-time pensioners, so that these pensioners will not have their pension curtailed by 25 pst. the basic amount because they have chosen to live together in marriage. From 1998 onwards, a pensioner was married to an active person who had an income of more than twice the basic amount of the population’s money. I wonder if the Christian People's Party is now willing to admit that the pensions you receive are a revised right and not to be curtailed because you're married. The representative Lilletun mentioned very many times in his post what goes on values and anchoring in values. In the opinion of the representative Lilletun, marriage as a form contributes to the protection of, inter alia: on values in society? And will the Christian People's Party support the Progress Party in this area – that being married should not be a basis for shortening pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e873	When it comes to the last point that Agent Nesvik picked up, we're in exactly the same state. Marriage is a reason to put in a special position, there is a reason to give priority, and I believe that the best foundation for social building is a commitment to society between two people. But when one goes to the concrete, it's no longer such that one benefits cohesive versus spouses. That's what happened before, that if you were married, you got a curtailment in the pension, but if you were combining, you didn't get a curtailment. Today it's changed, and one has retained a system that says it's reasonable that one who's single has a greater performance than two who's married, given that their spending base is completely different. Whether it's the fraction that's today, that's the one that's right, or whether it should increase something, that's the basis for further work. But it's a historical foundation for this, a wise foundation. The fact that if one was a conjugal, one kept the whole thing, and that if one was married, one was drawn, one was drawn, one was misguided. It's fixed, but we're open to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e880	Jon Lilletun is usually a wise man. In addition, he has experience both as the Council of State and as the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, and that is good experience. But in this debate he has acted very firmly towards the Progress Party. It started with a line change with Carl I. Hagen, where Jon Lilletun quoted the Sem statement and asked for support for parts of what he was a little uncertain about whether Carl I. Hagen would support. And Hagen suggested that 80 pst. of the support the Government will have to retrieve from the Progress Party, i.e. 80 pst. they must obtain the aid from the Party of Advancement. My question to Jon Lilletun is: Does he agree with this assessment that this government must seek support from the Progress Party in 80 p.m. of the cases? And if that's the case, if Jon Lilletun agrees with Carl I. Hagen's assessment: this does not mean a rather dramatic interpretation of the policy, where a government is to seek support from the Progress Party in 80 p.m. of the cases? Then Lilletun quoted from the Declaration of Accession. He obviously believes that it is very good, so he quoted a good portion of it, among other things. as regards the knowledge society. The government says that it's going to be easier to set up private schools. That's simplifying the law. I guess there's no law today that's as simple as the private school law, so simplifying it isn't that easy. Simplification – does it mean expanding the basis, i.e. facilitating the establishment of schools and allowing more groups to establish schools, i.e. not simplification, but an extension of the basis, so that simplification is a rewriting of extending the basis for private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e891	First, I want to reproduce the nice words that Rolf Rikvam started with, and I wish him luck as the leader of the church, education and research committee. There I think he's going to make an excellent effort, and I also hope that it will be possible to have a reasonable cooperation between Rolf Rikvam as a leader there and the Government. When it comes to the last thing he asked for, i.e. private sphereova, it's possible that she is to some extent simple in principle, but one shouldn't think she was easy when you see how the previous government practiced it. Then it seemed that it was the most difficult promise of all to practice. In any case, there is something about the processing time and that part there, and then there is something about simplification. And one of the things that a person has promised to fix is that rent should also be part of the basis for calculating a fee. Today it's not 85 pst. It's actually 60 pst. offer one gets to a private school. That's perfectly permissible. So to that with the percentage and the estimate that the representative Carl I. Hagen had made. The representative also claimed that I had acted as a waitress. I could also have framed all the things we disagree about, and I said a good deal about international politics and about a good deal of things that Rolf Rikvam knows is quite different when it comes to what I quoted from the government statement, and the Progress Party stands for, so that one has not acted civilly, but one can be polite, and I also try to be that when it comes to the representative Rikvam. It's 80 pst. is a number used. If so, on the basis of the long-term lines of the Sem declaration, we receive support from the Progress Party in 80 pst. by cases, it would be good if it were on the basis of the Sem declaration. I'm not able to determine that percentage today, but it's already listed a number of areas today where I hope that there may also be a basis for extensive cooperation with both SV and other parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e902	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been united on important issues of value in several policy areas, including: the right to full education shall be the same for all, without regard to each cage, social background and financial capacity. And a safe and well-adapted child who may not get top characters in the traditional disciplines, but who, on the other hand, develops social inclusion and belief in himself, and who knows not least safety in school life, is also a goal in Norwegian school policy and a good social investment. Here, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have had a collapsing vision. The representative Lilletun speaks warmly about the knowledge and competence society, but it is with great concern that I record what the Christian People's Party's new government parties, Right, say in the field of school policy. According to the Dagbladet of 13 August, the representative for pay answers the following questions about a pay system in which rich municipalities get the best teachers: ‘Yes, and that’s fine.’ And the new Education Council of Right also gives a signal that the new government will give priority to elite schools rather than the university ball, while both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have previously had as a fundamental goal that the public school should be a meeting place for children with different social backgrounds, and based on the fact that shortages are positive and should be valued, so my challenge to the representative Lilletun is the following: Will the Christian People's Party in a right-dominated government continue its school policy line with emphasis on values of life, on statures and knowledge, or is it the Right's position that will shape the new government's school policy, so that it must thus seek and need support from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e912	Throughout history it has been our great and far-reaching opinion and working community between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. We chose unlike the Syse government's departure in 1991, and we're certainly different now. We have to respect each other for that. My Christian People's Party and I are still committed to having a good relationship with our former government's common party in the central government. So I have a careful prayer that pertains to this government's name. So it's called the Co-operation Government, not the Right-dominated Government, but the Co-operation Government, for information about all the parties here in Stortinget. Then to the school policy. What's based there is probably not a play in the election campaign cork from the representative's pay or other, but what's in the Sem statement. There is a basis for ensuring both a good one-stop shop and a fairer and more open treatment of those who want alternative services. The Christian People's Party and I have a hold is that we are privileged to have a strong unity school. It has been a value for us, and we want to strengthen it further. But at the same time, we have a great deal of respect for parental rights, and I also believe that a good society's foremost hallmark is how one treats and reproduces those who are different even when it comes to school policy issues. So that's why I think that when it comes to the basic holders in relation to the student and in the view of the student, we're still with the Center Party. I also hope they are willing to meet us when it comes to treating properly those who want an alternative. Olav Akselsen The name of the government does not change the fact that it is right-dominated. [[(A):]] The Christian People's Party has chosen a side, and the Christian People's Party has therefore chosen close and binding cooperation with the Right and with the Advance Party, and thus they have also turned their backs on their former partner the Center Party, and on the Labour Party. This, of course, does the Christian People's Party because they think they're going to have a bigger impact with their new partners than with their old ones. I have difficulty believing this, but of course I want to respect it. Those who look in the Sem Declaration and in the Government Declaration for what kind of breakthrough the Christian People's Party has received, or what kind of policy this new government will lead, seek in vain. Quite rightly, there are many long fine formulations that we can all agree to, but there are very few clarifications. They'll probably only get us when the budget comes. There's not so much about taxes, but what's about taxes is probably going to be a lot more important than all the fine words about bets in all areas. One cannot apply large tax credits without going beyond something, but it will lead to cuts in other areas. This was the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party agreed on in the election campaign. In several headlines in the media, the Christian People's Party spoke negatively about its right-wing tax proposals. Among others in the Newspaper on 7 June, the Christian People's Party says its leader: ‘It is impossible to cut as much as the Right will in taxes and taxes without jeopardising well-being.’ And in a big headline in the VG, entitled «KNUSER Right Tax Light» on September 3rd of this year, Bondevik says: «Higher proposals are far too extensive and will lead to major negative consequences. We don't want to go along with them." So they said that at the time. Today, one will go for these tax havens, and it might be interesting to know what has happened in the meantime, except that the Christian People's Party has got the Prime Minister. Is it true that the economic laws on gravity are now lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e941	Some of us both have special relationships with the weight division, to say it like this. Otherwise, there's a completely wrong description that representative Olav Akselsen gives here of what has happened. It's not that we've gone for Right's tax treatment. There is a compromise between the Right and the Christian People's Party and the Left when it comes to tax issues, when it comes to both device and level. It is clear that there is still something right than we had in mind in advance, but at the same time it is not that there is no concrete impact for us within this government statement. For example, in the former area of representative Olav Aksensen, there is hope for a significantly better environmental policy with the government statement that is currently in place, and I think that is good, perhaps in contrast to the representative Olav Aksen. And furthermore, I will refer to the clear formulations that are in the fields of agriculture, fisheries and districts, which are clearly closer to the Christian People's Party's starting point than its starting point. It is necessary when one is going to sit down and work together, to find a common position, and I believe that if there is any room for the Labour Party, a very extensive vaccination training is needed – I can see that the representative Stoltenberg today says that they will now join an alliance with SV and the Center Party – it is when it comes to making compromises. In fact, cooperating means that one has to give, one has to agree, and one has to find common ways to work on, and there we invite in and off to first aid, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e957	It has flourished with congratulations and congratulations from the pulpit today, so I soon don't know if there is anyone left to congratulate, but at least I want to start by wishing the new government good luck with a responsible and important job. Both our former partners and the Right wish for happiness. I don't feel this as if the Christian People's Party has turned its back on the Center Party. I feel like you've made a different choice for a period of time, because, as I said in several contexts, I don't actually believe the Christian People's Party in the long term belongs to the company you've chosen. I therefore believe that earlier alliances at some point will be restored. The government is facing major challenges in a difficult international conflict that requires wisdom in handling and, unfortunately, may seem to be long-term. But not only do you have challenges in the field of foreign policy, but you have them to the highest degree in the home arena as well. There is no doubt that there is a great difference between the Christian People's Party and the Right. The Sem declaration was largely smoothing over many of the political contradictions between these parties. You say a little too much: yes, thank you, both! – more money for good purposes, combined with tax relief to such an extent that it is simply not feasible, as promised. I find that Jan Petersen was right when he claimed that the difference between this government and the previous one led by Kjell Magne Bondevik is that the centre party has been replaced with the right. I am aware that the name is the Cooperation Government, but this will be a Right-dominated Government. The right has got the heavy departments, the right has the majority in the government, and at the top of it all, Carl I. Hagen appears both as a birth assistant and as a guarantor of the government. Now government formation is a fact, and the centre party is set to be a constructive opposition party. We will seek cooperation solutions where there is a basis for it, and we will work to contribute to the creation of a majority where possible. I am pleased that Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim has signalled a desire for cooperation with the Centre Party, not with the Progress Party, in the field of agricultural policy. It is a clear choice of the Minister of Agriculture, and of course we are prepared to work together on solutions that are best for both consumers and the industry, solutions that ensure the production of safe food, and that can contribute to the development of income for farmers in line with the rest of the population. But in other areas, this government is signalling a policy that does not provide the basis for the same cooperation with the Central Party. For example, it is notified. extensive privatisation of state enterprises, e.g. State power. In this case, there will be a policy for more foreign ownership in Norwegian business, not for stronger Norwegian ownership, as stated in the government statement. There are enough examples of sales of government enterprises that have led to foreign investors entering the country of withdrawal. And what in all days would be the point of selling out of profitable and solid corporations, then placing the income from this sale in more or less secure shares abroad? For the Centre Party, it is not appropriate to contribute to the outsourcing of our hydropower resources for sale. It is right, as the representative Oddvard Nilsen said in an earlier speech, that the centre party opposed the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector in its time. I also remember that Paul Chaffey at the time said, "Where in the world is the Center Party in this matter?" But I have to admit that many times after that I have wondered: Where in the world is Paul Chaffey in part of the positions he has converted to? The centre party is not afraid of openness. We're not afraid of competition, we're not afraid of cooperation or trade with other countries, but the Central Party does not share the Right's unbounded belief that market forces will solve all the challenges. We see, for example: in the telecommunications sector that today Telenor is more concerned with investing out and less concerned with keeping what is at home. There are more and more people who have to wait a long time to get the total ton back after a line break, because you do not have the capacity to make repairs quickly. More and more people are discovering that, for example: not get broadband connection without paying off the shirt. This is a result of the market forces that Oddvard Nilsen held in his previous post. Investments go where you think profitability is the biggest. It's the law of market forces. The center party will continue to build the whole country. Political governance is also necessary to ensure equal opportunities, regardless of where you live. The new government is also calling for privatisation and liberalisation in still new areas. The Sem Declaration and the Government Declaration show that this is what we will see in school, in the care sector, in the health sector. The result is that we'll get bigger differences. We will receive more offers for those who can afford to pay for the offers, and we will get fewer for those who cannot afford it. We will get more offers for those who are so lucky to live there that we will get private offers, and we will get fewer offers for those who do not live in the people's areas. This impression of greater regional inequality is also reinforced by the new municipal minister, who wants to take money from the small municipalities and who wants to take money from the district effort to solve the challenges in the big cities. The needs of big cities are not solved by taking from the smallest municipalities. The needs of big cities are solved by adding more money to big cities to meet the special challenges facing them. The centre party will work for other solutions. We want to work for solutions that are for the benefit of people, no matter where they live. We will work for solutions where everyone will get the same offer and have the same opportunities for good public services regardless of income. There are major challenges in very many areas of society. It will certainly cost a lot of money to equip the school both professionally and structurally, as a majority of the parties here in the Stortinget have called for. If we are to cope with a quality upgrade of the school, there must be fewer students in each class. That means there have to be more teachers in school. Municipalities must be given considerable resources to cope with the building upgrade. And if we're going to be able to get more teachers into school, we have to make it more attractive to be a teacher. I know a lot of teachers who make a great effort under difficult working conditions, many teachers who have had growing challenges because many children and young people experience care failure at home, or who have received new, heavy tasks due to increasing drug abuse among young people. These teachers need inspiration. They need reward, they need opportunities for professional development. They do not need threats of dismissal due to typographical errors of greetings sent to the newly appointed State Council. There's one thing I'm absolutely sure of, and it's that the solution to the school's challenges is not in private schemes, as called for by the Co-operation Government. That those who are best placed in society, and those who live where the private offerings will come, can choose a good offer for their children, do not solve the challenges in school in places where the opportunities for private offers are not available, and for those who do not have the opportunity to buy space in private school. Similarly, there are major challenges in the care of the elderly. Many older people have to wait too long for the care they need. The parental reform is not very close to completion. In Northern Ireland, the forecasts for next year suggest that only 10 pst. of the places of care needed. It suggests that the reform of the elderly must continue for a long time to come. More staff are also needed in this sector. In the nation today, a resident of an elderly institution says, "We're fine, but we should wish that those who work here had some more time to sit down and talk to us." A little more time for us! That's actually what's needed. It's not an improvement in efficiency, it's not a gain that can be derived in the care sector where most of the expenditure goes to the compensation of employees who do a fantastic job that is needed, but on the contrary: more people need more time for those who are residents of these institutions. It costs money, and it requires staff. In fact, common to all the tasks to be solved is that more resources are needed in all areas. It can be solved in two ways. The money can either get over the tax bill, where those who have the most pay the most, and where those who have the most contribute the most to the community. Or: We can give tax reliefs and bets on private offers where the wallet for the individual must decide what kind of offer to receive. The center part will select the first model. We'll take care of what's best in Norwegian society. We will not keep everything as it is, but we will take care of what is best. It is necessary to renew, and it is necessary to remove unnecessary red tape and meaningless legislation that makes the meeting between the public sector and the individual a shocking experience for many. In the transport sector too there is a need for substantial investment, for the maintenance of roads, for the maintenance of T-rail, for tram and rail, for ports, airports, for collective action, etc. There is a great need for funds in all these areas. The delays in maintaining the road network are close to NOK 10 billion and are increasing for each year running. One thing I'm quite sure: it's actually not possible to combine upgrading in all of these areas with large tax havens. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Central Party is the author of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e991	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e996	Much has happened in Norwegian policy this autumn in addition to the shocks that the election result itself created in and separately. Some of the most shelling that has happened, but that has happened, is that the center option is now declared dead. The centre party and the Enox stand alone in the centre when the Christian People's Party and the Left chose to go to the Right. It may seem that the leader of the Center Party has now acknowledged the consequences of this, and has publicly signaled that he wants to build new alliances. It sees the Workers' Party as a positive invitation, perhaps also as an answer to previous invitations from the Workers' Party to build alliances between the Centre and the Workers' Party. It took quite enough time for us to get a positive answer, but we have to look at the comments of the head of the Central Party in that way. Perhaps it was still such that the centre parties kept their own ideology for a little too long that a minority rule was absolute preference. But in today's edition of the Nations, it may seem that the central party leader's performance is not so clear yet, so my question to the representative Enoxsen is therefore whether it is possible to clarify from this platform: Is it Lundtigen's view of the Workers' Party as an impossible partner or is it the Enoxsen's view of the Workers' Party as a possible partner that applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1005	It's true that it might seem that the Center Party is left alone in the center of the moment, but it definitely does not mean that the Center Policy is dead, and that the Center has been in common, is dead. In addition, this is too ingrained in all three parties that have cooperated in the centre for four years. I have come with a clear invitation, especially to the Christian People's Party, to find back to former fellow collaborators. We'll hope it'll go that way in less than a very long time. The centre, in my opinion, has not kept its ideologies for too long. The centre party went to the choice of one clear alternative. We would, through choices, give people the opportunity to choose the center option. It didn't happen. All three centre parties went back in the election. The left came below the barrier and said publicly that they did not see it realistic to participate in government cooperation. They would have more than enough to care for the party in such a situation. However, the Left has chosen to join the Cooperation Government, and the Left is the choice. I respect that they have done so, just as the Christian People's Party has done. But we stood by the choice we had made. I honestly believe that, in the long term, it may make sense to form majority solutions, and I think that kind of majority solutions should have a centre of gravity. That's why I hope that the Christian People's Party can join, but it will depend on the political development both in the Workers' Party and in the Christian People's Party, and on how well the new government will merge. And it will depend not least on the decisions to be taken at the Central Party national meeting in 2003 or 2005, prior to the next elections. It's the Central Party's national meeting that decides which cooperative constellations we're going to go to. In the interview a few days ago, the leader of the Centre Party expressed what I can see as a realistic and sensible constellation after the 2005 elections, but we have plenty of time to look at political developments and see how it is possible to develop cooperative constellations in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1014	It's natural to follow up where Hill-Marta Solberg and Enoxen left off. In the weeks following the election, the party leader, Enoksen, has come out of his mind box and declares: ‘I believe it is right to work for a majority government where the Ap and Sp are included.’ Today, Jens Stoltenberg Enoksen takes the floor and takes the floor for a new Alliance Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. In recent years, the centre party has been most concerned with determining the death of the block division in Norwegian policy. Independence of the blocks has been the direction of the Centre Party. The election result must have been disappointing for the Centre Party: for the first time since 1949, the Centre Party does not have a tilting position in the Stortinget. In such a situation, a new orientation is natural. So the Enoch has now established that it is the Workers' Party that will benefit from the favour of the Centre Party and vote for the next four years, and that the Enochs will have an SV on the purchase, is a natural consequence. Then we have a two-part party landscape: a non-socialist block and a socialist block where the centre party is included. This is clarifying, and I want to ask Enoxen if this is correctly understood? My associate Per Olaf Lundtigen said to the nations today that the Center Party should stand alone in the center, even though he says: ‘There’s nothing called the center anymore. Now it's called the Center Party." Does Enoxsen agree with Lundtegen that there is no more center? He said in his previous post that it was a center, and that he hoped and expected that the Left and Christian People's Party, when they thought a little about it, came back to the center. But then Enoksen has already left the center and gone to the Workers' Party, according to what he himself says in the interviews he has given in the last two days. So there are two ways for the Center Party: an alliance with the Workers' Party or alone. Can Odd Roger Enoksen now establish that he wants to join a block with the Workers' Party, so that we get two large blocks, or does the Center Party want to be a pebble squeezed between two large granite blocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1035	I understand that there may be a certain need to repeat the answer that I gave on the previous line. The two-block stitching has definitely not been restored. Block dependency isn't dead. In the decade that has passed, we have experienced that it has actually been the Workers' Party and the Right that have been involved in many of the key questions, and that have been the drivers of a social development that has gone in a different direction than we wanted. You can look at the voting results especially from the first half of the 1990s, where the Right Party and the Workers' Party were in the hands of a lot of things. They have been at the forefront of EU issues, on important environmental issues, on issues that are at the heart of District Norway’s challenge, and not least on issues where market orientation has been chosen rather than cohesion, which I spent much of my contribution in clarifying. I have said on that basis that much of the development in the future will depend on what the Workers' Party now chooses to do. I have no faith that the Right picks a line that goes in the direction of the Center Party, but I have faith that the Workers' Party can do that. During this period, we will choose cooperation from case to case. We want to be constructive and seek solutions with the Government where possible, and I hope that the Workers' Party will also aim to put itself on such a line, so that it can show that it is intended to build long-term cooperation constellations with parties that are part of the government we have now received. And so it's, as I said, the Central Party national meeting that's going to decide what we're going to do after the 2005 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1044	It is particularly gratifying from the point of view of the Progress Party that the Centre Party is no longer on the verge of, or on the scale of, progress in this Chamber away from a socialist policy. It warms our hearts. No matter what the Central Party represented by Odd Roger Enoxen said from this pulpit, we're getting a two-block stitch. We have seen how the leader of the Central Party has worked for the last few days, he has embraced the Workers' Party, even though we in the Progress Party also record that many members and county leaders in the Centre Party disagree. But Odd Roger Enoksen represents the hierarchy, so we have to believe that what he says to the media or from this pulpit is the central party's policy. For many years, the centre party has been a brake block on rural development and agricultural policy. I will take an example: from 1976 to 1997, agricultural policy, including protection aid, cost the Norwegian people 500 billion kroner. In the same period, we had the largest migration from the districts to the central districts, and we got over half of the number of farmers. So why continue with a policy that doesn't work when we can get a progressive policy that is more beneficial also for District Norway? We read the Sem statement positively. It is said that the difference in food prices between Norway and our neighbouring countries will be reduced, that we should look at the law on the acquisition of livestock, probably in order to gain more competition in the agricultural sector, that we want to use tax incentives in regional and district policy and much, much more. I hope and believe that the new government will focus on the Advancement Party. [[The President clubs.]] Does the representative, Mr Enoksen, not think this is progressive and necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1053	The President will remind you that speaking time is set for it to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1057	I assume that the representative Hedstrøm will not be surprised that the answer to his question is no. The central party doesn't think it makes sense for the government to be briefed in the direction of the Progress Party. But I'm afraid that many people can notice that it's now the Progress Party and not the Center Party that's on the verge of Norwegian politics, because that's unfortunately the reality after the government that we've now received. The party of progress has maneuvered into a unique position of power. We want to do our part to avoid it becoming too dominant. Unfortunately, we are less able to form a majority in this period than we were in the previous period. However, this does not mean that we should not work for constructive solutions for Norwegian agriculture that enable us to maintain safe Norwegian food production. The policy that Øystein Hedstrøm has been pursuing for the whole time we've been in charge of the Stortinget would have led to massive imports of food, put us at a considerable risk in an uncertain situation, which we've seen around, with sickness, with food insecurity and with the terrorist actions that can also affect this sector. In fact, I believe that each country will be able to make a great deal of money by providing its own food production and taking care of and supplying its population with food to the greatest extent possible. We have a wide range of solutions for the future of District Norway. We want to build the whole country, we don't want to contribute to more centralisation as the Progress Party has a strong wish in its programme as well, and centralisation is positive, it was said in the setting of the District Communication in ours. It's a development we don't want to contribute to. On the contrary, we want people to be allowed to live and work where they want to. It's not by coerced District Norway to be maintained, it's by giving them the opportunity to take advantage of the amazing opportunities that exist there for value creation, and to have a good quality of life where they had to live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1064	The centre party has left the center option to which it contributed the election result. But also before the election, during the election campaign, the Center Party marked that they would not trap the Workers' Party government if the option became a government with the participation of the Right. So this is where the three parts are separated. That, I believe, was a clear clarification of a party that may have experienced more adversity than access to the so-called center option. For a long time, and not least during the election campaign, we have indicated that we want to cooperate with the Centre Party in order to implement the policies that we stand for, and which we see in many areas are consistent with the policies of the Centre Party – a better environmental policy, a significant increase in school and kindergarten spending, fair distribution and not least a better rural policy. We have recognised and we take responsibility for mobilising a broad political alliance against the right turn of Norwegian policy to which the new government is now adding up. It will be imperative in the years to come. My questions to Odd Roger Enoxen are therefore: What can we expect of the Center Party in the period that comes? Can we expect a different and more open attitude to cooperate with the left-hand side, to cooperate with SV, to create an alternative to right-wing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1075	I do not believe that what has been on or will be on the will to cooperate also with SV on a case-by-case basis, we have had a tradition of having that for a long time. And we've come up with a lot of common good solutions also with other parties on important issues. That job should continue with the Centre Party. We are going to work for a better environmental policy; we are going to work to strengthen the community so that people, regardless of where they live, can get good public services in the health sector, in the care sector, in school and kindergarten. We're going to work to ensure that the municipalities get income to do the proper tasks that the municipalities are going to do, because that's not the situation today. The election campaign was used by most parties to make promises on behalf of local politicians around this country that they cannot honour. The government of Stoltenberg contributed to strengthening it through the budget presented in the autumn, which promised to invest in cheaper kindergartens, several kindergartens, several care homes for the elderly, more school-based bets, while the municipalities have not been able to pay their own share in order to be able to do so. It will do something about it, and we will definitely show an open attitude to cooperation with the parties with which it is possible for us to cooperate. But it's also in some areas we're separating ourselves from SV. We separate layers in the view of defence policy, in view of the need to have a decent defence, we separate strong layers in the view of property, we also separate layers in the view that it is necessary to create values before one can distribute them. In my opinion, SV has too much focus on the distribution side and too little on the value-creating part of the policy. An industrial policy is necessary to ensure income and employment for the Community. And it's actually like one who runs his own small business is as much worth and should be valued as one who's employed in a business or in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1082	Although the Central Party has now declared its willingness to cooperate with the Labour Party and the Left, it does not seem that they have completely turned their backs on the Christian People's Party. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the country's government is now composed of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that it is quite new, so what is said reminds me a little of a petition on the Quail Bread Days. But the representative Odd Roger Enoksen has experience, hopefully good experience, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I expect him to believe us and the government statement that these parties in the new government are still busy taking up the whole country, strengthening the school, voluntary Norway, helping the poor children and securing a framework that gives new optimism in agriculture, an offensive industrial policy, with jobs in the districts and the relocation of state jobs, as well as removing EU issues from the agenda. This is what is stated in the Sem Declaration, as well as something more obvious. And then I'm amazed that the Center Party describes this as a defensive district policy. The question to the representative, Mr Enoksen, is then: what is the defensiveness of a statement that is confusingly similar to the priorities we shared when it was a glitch to use the whole country? And in the next four years, despite the fact that we have shifted partners, will the Central Party cooperate constructively with the Government to achieve previous common goals? As I see Enoch's criticism of the co-operation system, it's far on the way based on predictions about what they think might happen if private people get out of it, and not what's in the Sem statement about the government's priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1091	I agree that we should not be freed in the wheat bread days. But I think that when the 2005 elections come, the wheat-bread days will have passed, quite repressive. And then I might also remind you that the Central Party, at least, did not have to operate consistently in the time of engagement in front of the election, and stood consistently on one option, on one choice, and was to rely on both voters who knew what kind of government options they would have with the Center Party, and in relation to the partners we had chosen. What we then do towards the 2005 elections is another matter. So it's like I've read the Sem statement three times, and I've also read the government statement that was made here in Stortinget, at least twice. I've been through this quite thoroughly. And to understand what is now going to happen in the future, you also have to be willing to read the sum of the total policy to be pursued by this government. More privatisation, combined with great tax relief, which I spent a lot of my main contribution on getting ahead, will lead to increased geographical and increased social differences. The government should be commended for addressing poverty problems, but addressing the problems of those who have the most difficulty and addressing poverty problems does not mean that one intends to pursue a policy of more cohesion. On the contrary, some of the other things you stand for will reinforce the differences. Then, in addition to having read the statement, I have heard what various governments have said after accession, and it is not always as well in line with what is stated in the Declaration and testifying to a different policy in a number of areas than the beautiful words that are contained both in the Declaration of Government and in the Sem Declaration. Now, however, the government is going to have a chance to show that the municipal minister does not intend to take away the district bet, does not intend to take from the small municipalities to give to the city councils, and that we are not going to have a policy for fewer farms and for fewer and larger fishing boats, as could be interpreted by the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1102	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1105	The country needs a new course, with greater freedom for individuals and joint responsibility for each other. We need a modern and offensive environmental policy, we need simpler, more service-oriented and efficient management, and we need to facilitate innovative business, based on knowledge, research and culture. This is the important honour of the Left, and that is why we are pleased with the declaration of cooperation, the declaration of accession and the political basis negotiated at Sem. The choice result was weaker for the left than we hoped. With small margins on the wrong side, a relatively small decrease in the number of voters led to a large impact in the big group. It was initially not natural to participate in government with two representatives on the Stortinget, sail if there are more than three times as many voters behind each of the Left's representatives as there is behind the average of the representatives in this room. However, we were invited by the Right and Christian People's Party, and said yes to that. We think it's good for the Left, for the Government and for the country. Three parties give a better balance than two, and the political breadth expands. We believe that cooperation between a liberal conservative, a Christian-democratic and a social-liberal party has the potential to be a lasting and strong government option in Norway. The left is a junior partner in Regeringa, but we are among the parties that are used to cooperating in mutual understanding and respect. That is why there is also a very good left-wing policy in the political platform and in the Declaration of Accession. From the value point of view, the old "Human in Centre" left word is inserted into all important file fields. We've got a more offensive environmental policy, we're getting a commitment to education, research and culture, and we're getting a social profile with a focus on poverty reduction out there and at home. We get a renewal and simplification of the public sector, among other things. on the resumption of the ‘Simplified Norway’ project initiated by the Left in the previous Bondevik administration. These Keywords are the same Keywords as the Left Central and National Governments decided to give priority to the Left in the government negotiations, and we are pleased with the result. It is a balanced centre-right policy, not dominated by one party. The reactions following the submission of the platform demonstrate this with all clarity. It was e.g. many good words about environmental policy and rural and agricultural policy from teams which have both insight and strong interests in the areas and which traditionally have a critical attitude to any government policy in this area. It has become a sort of myth that it is the socialists and the social democrats who have done the best for well-being. History shows that it's not obvious. Much good has been done by the Workers' Party, but innumerable funds have also been wasted through inefficient and uncritical use of public funds. Solidarity has often been so much aimed at people in working life as at those who actually fall outside and really need the help of society. The left has also contributed greatly to the development of the welfare society, and so have the various non-socialist governments. In the election campaign, the poverty problem was highlighted in Norway. It's a major issue for the new government. It is gratifying to see that the Workers' Party, too, now, after the election and after the submission of its State budget, takes maritime criticism and will work on an action plan, cf. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, expressed his opinion in The Journal last Tuesday. Hopefully, it can facilitate good cooperation with good results for those concerned. The left has also been particularly concerned about the situation of drug addicts, and we look forward to a better policy that shows respect and that in many ways gives society the no. One uplift. We are delighted that our commitment to the Sellafield emissions in the election campaign is now manifesting itself in a more offensive Norwegian attitude from the Government. This is a good example of the importance of an environmental party coming into position and gaining influence over the practical policy. Public transport in metropolitan cities is another example where the government statement obliges a greater lift. The left has contributed to increased attention and allocation to this in the period that is now behind us. But we need a greater boost and innovation in a long neglected area. Through the negotiations, the Christian People's Party and the Left have helped to commit Right to a more offensive environmental policy than has so far been the majority in this House on the Stortinget. That's right and happy. The Sem Declaration also has a separate section on the good urban life. Good cities and vibrant districts are two sides of the same story: a good society for everyone — with freedom of choice for the individual. The challenges of cities have been underestimated. It is gratifying that the Government, through its own announcement of the big city's social problem of integrating immigrants, environmental problems and crime as major challenges that require the interest and power of action of society as a whole, will address this in a more systematic way than it has done before. The left also underlines the government platform's commitment to research. In this field too, we have had a strong commitment in the last period, and we are pleased that the government parties are united in stepping up this fundamental for the country's future: value creation and well-being. An important ideological distinction in policy is seen in civil society and voluntary organisations. In fact, social democrats have approached the centre and the rhetoric of the right, but much remains in the understanding of the valuation of the so-called third sector, the relationship between the public and the individual. It must be strong and vital, and it realizes the new government. This is a fundamental ideological issue of a liberal party. Without the voluntary commitment of citizens, solidarity and humanity are confused. These are values that cannot be adopted by the State but that must live and develop in everyday life and local environment throughout the country. Speakers today have been involved in the international situation. Norway has shown solidarity with the United States – together with the rest of the world – in the fight against terrorism. Article 5 of NATO is in use, and we have an obligation to stand together in this struggle. It cannot be fought without discomfort and pain, but it must be carried. It is important that the methods of combating terrorism be debated in public. However, it is also important that political leaders take responsibility and show action. We cannot be naive in this battle and believe that it will be simple. It was a war action directed at the United States on 11 September, and it requires a great deal of harmlessness to the great threat that is against all of us. Minister of Justice Dørum of the Central Government appointed the Vulnerability Committee, and Minister of Justice Dørum of the Cooperation Government is now following up – in line with the Sem Declaration. The threat picture has changed significantly in recent years, including in Norway, and we need to address the consequences in a calm and well-considered way. It is the view of the Left that we have received a good government for the country, with a good and offensive political platform. It is ambitious, and I note that the opposition is promoting criticism that it is too ambitious. It could be. But this is a program for four years, and if the government gets to sit all this time, I'm convinced that we'll see good agreement between program and result. That is what politics is all about. The left looks forward to delivering results on all the important issues in accordance with our programme and with the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1150	The representative of Skei Grande, the parliamentary leader of the Left, recently has good experience in local politics, and I believe that the former City Council, Skei Grande, in the draft government budget proposed by the Labour Party, and in the government statement presented by the government, found a lot of joy: 1 billion SEK to kindergartens, 10,000 new kindergartens, 2 billion SEK as the first step in an upswing package for schools, proposals for work environment legislation for pupils and students, a strong increase in teacher pay, 50,000 SEK in two years, and a strong increase in the local economy both in the current budget and for the next year. Now the left went to the selection on a center option. It didn't work out. Then there was plan B, a cooperation with the Right and a Sem statement, which marked a sharp reduction in public revenue at large tax havens. This must include, inter alia: mean corresponding reductions in the cost of grants to the local government sector. My question to the representative Skei Grande is first of all: where is the pain limit for the Left in terms of what reductions can be accepted in relation to the important welfare tasks of Skei Grande as the City Council in Oslo? The new government has, if not its parliamentary basis, at least its parliamentary basis in the Progress Party. In the election campaign in 1997, the leader of the Left said Lars Sponheim that the view of individuals and groups by the Progress Party is irreproachable and that there was an abyss between the Left and the Advance Party. My next questions are: what's the last four years that's made the Left switch to the degrees view of the Progress Party that you're now forming a government based on that party? And does it also go there any pain limit compared to what you can cooperate on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1161	Yes, it's true that you have some experience in local school policy. In Oslo, we have the same cooperative structure as the one that has now been in government at country level. It can be seen that in that cooperative structure, you have actually achieved a huge rise in school, an enormous boost in school rehabilitation, which the Workers' Party was not near to get when they put in power in the municipality. It's spent 5 billion dollars in five years renovating schools, against the 63 million dollars a year that the Workers' Party has granted for the same purpose. And that's the low allocation from the time that makes us today have the big lag we have in the school sector. And it's clear that the package that was nationally proposed by Giske and that was supported by the parties of the government that has now joined is a good one. But for Oslo the municipality does not even help the school that Gishe held its press conference. It is also clear that, together with the Right, there has been a greater boost in a number of environmental areas than the Workers' Party and SV did when they joined forces. There is now an investment of SEK 1.2 billion in public transport in Oslo with the three parties in power. It is considerably higher than the Workers' Party and SV were ever close to getting to when they collapsed the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1176	The new government is clearly saying that it wants to reduce state ownership. What does that mean? Well, that means, first of all, that now you're going to sell the Norwegian people's heirloom. It means, on the other hand, that the Government will ensure that future generations are deprived of these assets. Thirdly, it means that non-resident owners can enter and take over a number of our properties. And that means fourth, and not least, that important natural resources, such as fish, oil, gas, forest and power, are now facing a very uncertain future. When I have gone outside the State Council Hall in Stortinget, I have seen the statue of Johan Castberg, who was Minister of Justice for the Left. Johan Castberg was a great guy. And he was one of those who made sure -- he was the architect himself -- that we got the concession laws, which ensure national control of natural resources. The left has a different view of it today. The left will now be involved in destroying what Johan Castberg stood for. I believe that the Left is failing its predecessors, and they are failing not least the Norwegian people. And I don't think there's going to be any new statue of left-wing people outside the Council of State room with the attitude they have today in relation to ownership and the role of the state there. For us, it is very important, and we believe that it is one of the most important issues we face, that the state should continue to control important natural resources and key infrastructure areas in Norway. At least we will give priority to that work in the future. And my question to the Left is: is the Left and the Skei Grande sure they're on the right track when they want to get rid of the Norwegian heirloom?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1189	My view of heirloom is that it has rarely brought anything to families other than family wreath! At least there has rarely been an increase in value creation. And the goal of the state must always be to evaluate how we actually use the resources we have, to bring as much well-being as possible. Then the state must also go in and assess the objective – whether the state should own as much as possible, or whether it should manage the money it has, in other ways. I would like to mention a little example from the thinking done in this city about the exact same thing: here you sell municipal property you don't use, to invest in school property, as you need. And there's a kind of smoking state and municipal property from things we don't have to own, to things we actually need to spend more resources on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1196	In the Sem Declaration, there is a part, if not a lot, of rural policy. There is also talk in general about the value creation and exploitation of our country's resources. The right-wing new parliamentary leader, former leader of the Oddvard Nilsen Committee of Transport, was earlier today concerned and underlined the importance of transport policy for good economic and regional development. We in the Central Party believe that such statements are positive because transport policy is important for the districts and districts’ businesses. Good roads and traffic trails are one thing. It is also important that the cost framework for operating transport activities is present, and I am not least thinking about charging policy. The left is an avid champion of green taxes and taxes. And it can be well and good, but sometimes these good intentions can become the best enemy. The level of charges is an important element of transport policy. Will the Left now address the impact of economic development and value creation across the country by creating better framework conditions, including: in the case of transport costs, by reducing diesel charges for freight and public passenger transport in the districts? I'm thinking especially about the truck and the bus. Will the Left also pursue a different railway policy, remove the road tax in the case of rail transport, and maintain and further develop the freight terminals, instead of what we are now seeing, a winding up of these terminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1207	For the Left, it is important to bet on public transport in cities and to bet on roads in the districts. While it is clear that building on roads in key areas will require enormous resources, it is also clear that reading more of passenger traffic where public transport would be able to release resources that could actually be used on the road in the areas that are needed. With regard to the diesel charge, the most important thing for traders in the districts to obtain their goods is first and foremost speed. Getting the fish quickly from the West down to Europe is the most important thing we can do. And then it's making roads better in central areas so that traffic can get through fast, important, but it's also important to get good road solutions into the districts. I think it's more important than making it cheaper and driving slower. It is most important to get to the markets you need quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1214	I wasn't quite satisfied with the answer from Skei Grande, and therefore I follow up with more specific questions: Does the Left think it's curative that the state is now selling Statkraft? Does Left think it's currant that the state sells State Forest? Does Left think it's curative to sell more of Statoil and other important social institutions we have? Can the Left give me a clear answer to these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1219	What is important here is that the country assesses what is appropriate in relation to national interests. That means we have to review all ownership at all times. It is always the responsibility of the country to make that assessment, and it is not a static assessment, but an assessment that is ongoing. And then it's important that we take care of the nation's interests – take care of them by also looking at national ownership. But it's also important to look at how we use the resources, how we use the state's capital, whether we use it properly in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1224	We became well-known through the first Bondevik government that left flew quite high in relation to bureaucracy towards business. And then there was not least this with the big form field of which the then Minister of Economic Affairs Sponheim was very concerned. They didn't succeed in any way in that government. The result was that the form field also increased during that government. I was online now, and it's clear that you get a little hint when you read articles that leaders get sick of bureaucracy, about insomnia, constant fatigue, burnout and various physical stress symptoms. These are plagues that affect more and more small business managers. They get sick by the public form field, are the signals. My question is, what will the Left do in the new government that can really speed up a reduction in public bureaucracy and the form for our business life? Want to reach the left e.g. Follow up the Progress Party when we want to make a lot of proposals to get a job that brings results to all the small business leaders we are talking about, who are not now in a way able to do productive work because we have a public form field and a bureaucracy that makes people sick by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1233	It was actually the way Bondevik's first government got to reverse the trend. The increase was stopped, and you could see for the first time a decrease in the number of forms. But you can say that the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ and the project to get rid of the form field have been quite calm since the Bondevik administration went off. Now there are quite clear wordings in the Sem Declaration in this area. We hope to speed up the ‘Simplified Norway’ project again, and we also hope that we can get new ideas in the public sector and by making use of more electronic forms, which was launched by Minister of Industry Sponheim in the previous Bondevik government, in order to get a real boost and to make this much easier and to coordinate reporting for business. I have seen this as an important investment for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1238	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1241	The coastal party has come to stay! In spite of a malicious campaign that was launched at the end of the campaign, and in spite of a shaken president, who went off after the last parturition period, who characterized Bastisen's view of women, despite the fact that we were not allowed to join the party leader debate, despite the claim that we have not had an overall program, we are now here! When it comes to women's vision, I have to be allowed to quote a little chapter from our program: ‘In order for women to benefit from an education or job offer, satisfactory child care coverage is an important prerequisite. The Party will in particular encourage girls to enter the fisheries, aquaculture and other district industries. The Party will work to strengthen the decentralised provision of education in secondary schools, colleges and universities, focusing on the needs and wishes of women. The position of the woman shall be strengthened by improving her educational and work choices. By relocating state activities into the districts, the Coastal Party will increase the job opportunities for women.The equal pay for work of equal value must be continued.» I hope now that the debate on Bastisen's view of women is being iced up, because at least I have one thing that I think I am alone about, once I have characterized it in writing and publicly, namely that the finest I see is fishing boats loaded, and pregnant women's people. So I hope now that the bullying ends when it comes to this. Despite this, we got between 44,000 and 45,000 votes, and I extend a great deal of thanks to both the employees and the voters who voted for us. Unfortunately, it wasn't that much that we got party support, so the only thing I can promise the employees is blood, sweat and tears and free work, and I expect them to stand on. We will continue to work to focus our efforts on primary production and basic industries, which are the basis for the creation of value in this country and the basis of our economy. Sustainable resource management of all marine resources, the harvesting of nature and ecological diversity is incredibly important. Unfortunately, we experience that an ecological disaster has been allowed to develop on the coast. We have the grazing of the tares forest. We have a large coastal population that unfortunately has been underestimated for a long time. We now have a research project that looks at the numbers. They counted in three small places near Brønnøysund 200 new kids, which attract almost 1,000 animals, and the official figures are 63. That's what's been the option before. The crowballs have eaten up the tares forest, and we have a pronounced deserting also on the Finnmark coast of the royal crab, which spread southward. The funny thing is that I've been ridiculed in the media for my part when I've brought these things up, but when a government council takes it up, it's going to be a good media thing. So the section of the coast was out to bathe, and then the right thing was stolen, and suddenly it became a big and important media thing. We have more good things. We have on the agenda that we have to remove the property tax, so that people can have security and security to keep their own housing. We have the document fee and the inheritance fee on the agenda. I hope that the Right also steals the cases and makes them their own and does something with them. The Fisheries Council has been hit by hard drive in the media because he has belonged to the Mormon Church. He has been hit hard because he is a member of the Freemasonry Lodge. What about the press's interest in the Bilderbergs, where central politicians are involved, an organisation whose main objective is to bring the nation state down? Isn't it time the media also started to take an interest in such secret organizations? Of course, theft of people's property will continue with this government. I am thinking in particular about the sale of Statoil and HOUSE to the rest of the world. What are we going to do with more money? I guess we have too much money, because we're sending them to the rest of the world immediately, we've got a settlement and we're placing them in a fund there. Foreigners invest in Norway. We have a lower return on our investments abroad than on the investments made by foreigners in Norway. The deficit was in the first quarter of the year SEK 7.3 billion – in minus. So we lost SEK 7.3 billion on the capital account. Furthermore, we have water resources. Of course, they should be sold. Our forests are to be sold. The fishing resources shall be sold and the concessions sold. We have adopted the Water Resource Act that opens up expropriation for everyone in the EEA area. The Mineral Act is on its way to exactly the same thing. We have adopted the Law of the Sea, which allows large sea areas to be sold, and we have coastal areas to be sold in connection with the acquisition of salmon concessions on foreign hands. Privatisation of the public is the theft of the people. It's the people's property being put out for sale. I would also like to say it so that the fisheries management is playing down. In the Barents Sea there is an exchange of bareboat agreements, largely funded by large Norwegian groups. When Norwegian fisheries negotiators go to Russia to negotiate, other Norwegian shipowners and financial institutions sit on the other side of the table, concentrating on taking the small ones home. In addition, we now have a fishing activity on the Trøndelag coast, where large areas of coral reefs that should have been at peace are crushed, with so-called rock hopper gears, without intervention by the Ministry of Fisheries or the Ministry of Environment. We have a fisheries management where the legislative, executive and judicial authority has been added to one department. Terrorism is being used against a peaceful local population, where pregnant housewives experience the doors being blown up. I'm aiming for an action in Værøy recently. There is no matching resource usage. There are a number of such cases that have not led to any final judgment. The Council of State shall have a favourable opinion in order to initiate the lifting of the tipping telephone. But when I read in the North Light that Nordlys is going to launch a self-declared phone, a mere gaping mentality, then the coastal population has less legal certainty than the whores, because they are not put in a gap, and they are not hung out in the newspaper. What kind of society are we developing? It says in the budget that the Coast Guard should be strengthened. Svalbard is being phased in. Then one vessel is phased out. What kind of reinforcement is that? One vessel in, one vessel out, it's going to be zero, it's going to be zero. We have a sea area that is seven times larger than Norway. I have today put forward proposals to reintroduce border control against Schengen. Border control is the best means of combating terrorism and international crime. Border control is the best means of preventing the development of an illegal labour market in Norway. These measures will prevent conflicts and thus contribute to preventing the emergence of racism and Nazism in this country. I would challenge both the SV and the Central Party to support this proposal, so that the Norwegian people clearly see that these parties are also still on the way to preventing the adaptation to the EU system. We have another matter we worked a lot with in the spring session. It was coastal surveillance of our outer boundaries. It was a flag cause for the Coastal Party. The Christian People's Party seized this matter and wanted to form a coastal ministry. Honor be the Christian People's Party for it, for as it is now, no one has an understanding of what is really moving on the coast. Oil extraction in the north is a hot matter. Production water of 360 000 tonnes contains chemicals that nobody knows what it is. The oil industry knows that, but the Government and the Storting and the relevant authorities don't know that. 30000 tonnes of poison are to be released into the sea in 2003. We have virtually no oil protection equipment outside the oil fields. We're very concerned about safety for the coastal population, for the Rescue Company, we're going to have new rescue helicopters, and we're going to go in to make EH101 the helicopter that we're betting on for land-based maritime rescue. When it comes to the defense, I have a few words. The Coastal Party is most concerned that the Maritime Defense in the future Defence shall have a clear head, and it shall also have the Army, the Home Guard and the Air Force. The Defence Borders shall have a visible and strong influence on operational, personnel, material and building and property matters of their own defence. The strategic direction of the defence shall be included in the Ministry of Defence, with a maximum of 30 persons, balanced between the branches. Here, too, the general inspectors must be. The remainder of the Defence Command must not exceed 500 persons. Reitan must in principle consist largely of personnel from the air and sea, and the admiral must be the permanent head of the northern regions. So finally, today we experience that the Left and Christian People's Party has gone to the right. The centre party is outside and frees the Workers' Party, and goes to the left. The only real option in the center today is the value-conservative center party, the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1286	Did I understand that the representative Bastesen suggested that he made a specific proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1290	No, I'm going to promote it in a three-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1297	So it's going to be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1300	I can confirm that the Coastal Party and Steinar Bastesen have a comprehensive program – I was so lucky to meet Steinar Basteen both in the stand and in the debate in the election campaign. But it is nevertheless, I think, of interest to know the position of the Coastal Party in the political map. During the election campaign, there was a small period of time when the Coastal Party seemed to be able to get to the tip. Now it changed after the election result. We have now somehow returned to a two-block system, in particular it is quite clear now that the Centre Party has converted to the Workers' Party. That's why my question is to the Bastisen: Where on the political scale does the Coastal Party feel most comfortable? I hear that the Bastisen in his post points out that the Right in a way has stolen some points from the Coastal Party. I must then be allowed to say that both in the case of property taxes, document fees, inheritance fees and petrol and diesel taxes, it was probably the Progress Party who also opened that debate and who was first in line to reduce and remove these charges. However, it is clear that the last period has also shown that the Coastal Party has supported the policy of the Progress Party in many other areas – in the case of mariners' pensions, in the case of farming concessions, in the case of strengthening the coastal fleet, and not least the desire of the Progress Party to strengthen the infrastructure, especially in coastal areas. It could therefore be interesting to challenge the Bastisen on how he will deal with these relevant areas in the next period, and whether he then might find it natural that his policy has more proximity to the Progress Party than to the left side of Norwegian policy. This is a little bit unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1307	On the question of where we belong in Norwegian politics, I think I gave a clear signal about it in my main post. We've defined ourselves as a value-conservative center party. That means we're in the center of Norwegian politics. When it comes to whom we sympathise with, it depends on what kind of things are on the agenda. I read a long list of things that we're concerned about, and to the extent that we get support from SV or we can get support from the Progress Party, we have no problem accepting support from both parties. And of course, if the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, or the Workers' Party, would find it opportunistic to support us, we say thank you for that. We don't have any preference, either to the right or to the left. So we're talking about support on a case-by-case basis, and what's relevant is that we can cooperate with anyone about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1314	We in SV have registered the Coastal Party's involvement in district policy, and we appreciate that very much. We agree with the Coastal Party that the time has come to get more action and less words in district policy. There has been a surplus of words for many years, and there is a need to take some roofs, not only off the coast, but also inland, if we are to achieve the goal of maintaining today's housing patterns. In this way, we look forward to working with the Coastal Party to find good solutions for the benefit of people living in District Norway, who would like to live in District Norway, who think it is nice to live in District Norway, but who see that there are some policies that are being made in this house, which destroy the possibilities of living there. In this way, we welcome the Coastal Party to cooperate. But then we have registered in the election campaign that the Coastal Party has also been critical of SV. As far as I could get through the media, it was critical to this with ‘social issues’ and ‘female people’. And my question is, what does the Bastesen representative have against women and social issues, and what's wrong with the SV's policy in terms of women's and social affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1323	The representative, Inge Ryan, may not have followed in my post, because I made clear what I meant. I want to remind him that in connection with that I was in a Holmgang program on TV 2, two women came and carried me in a gold chair towards the entrance to the TV 2s studio here at Karl Johan, and that does not exactly testify that I should be something particularly hostile to women! They had tried several of the participants, but only I said yes – and it is not because I believe that women should carry me on their hands. But I have absolutely nothing against women! It's an obvious misunderstanding and a misinterpretation that I should be across half of Norway's population. But it will be like this when clear and concise statements are to be used and interpreted and twisted and twisted. Then it must go over the stick and the stone. What I said about the question of which government we wanted to support was this: we want problems working with the Progress Party because of their district policy. We want problems working with SV, because there's a little too much women's business and social thinking. If I had used the words that there were too many socionomists, it would have been perfectly all right, because then it was completely different words. But that means the same thing. I am asking for SV's clear programme formulation, like the formulation we have in our programme. I haven't seen that. So I think we in the Coastal Party actually have a much better women's policy than what SV has. I want to assure both the President and the Assembly that there are no anti-women's attitudes in the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1330	We then thank you for that insurance, and hope that we can live on with it. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1335	The autumn of 2001 has been marked by major political upheavals, both nationally and internationally. The terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September have brought the world into a dramatic situation. The fight against terrorism and its protectors is a fight for democracy and for freedom. The upheavals in Norwegian policy following the major elections on 10 September have led to the country being given a new government. It is by itself not dramatic, but the result of a democratic election and a declared wish by a majority of the parties here in the United Kingdom. The election result did not give a clear majority for any of the government options presented to the voters before the election. But after the elections, new and significant clarifications in Norwegian policy have taken place. The centre option has been declared dead and has ceased to exist. And it's the center parties themselves that have been responsible for the killing – first by Bondevik leaving the center and choosing Right. Plan B applied. The left came along, and the leader described the step as ‘to throw the links’. The Footlink was the Center Party, which then stood alone in the center. The Centre Party has now also taken the consequences that the Centre is buried as a government alternative and will build alliances on the centre-left side of Norwegian policy. This implies a new recognition in those parties which have long held fast by the reasonableness and preference of minority rule, which must be based on different majority voting. An epoch of Norwegian policy is thus over. For the last three to four years, the Labour Party has invited to cooperate with the Centre Parties to build alliances, alliances that could provide a more robust governance basis and greater stability. But we have had to note that when Christian People's Party and Bondevik saw no possibility of forming a government based on the center, then the Christian People's Party chose side. They chose the Right and the Advance Party. And, as it was called, politics was the most important thing! For the Workers' Party, policy will be the most important. We will build on the principles of Community solutions, of equal rights and human dignity for all. We want to build more and cheaper kindergartens. It's important to our children. We will create a better school for the children and for the young. We want better care for the elderly and better health care for those who are ill. And we'll build more homes for young people, students and disadvantaged people. In order to achieve this, Community and local government solutions need to be strengthened. We cannot accept that anyone lives in poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. That is why we are strongly committed to providing housing for the disadvantaged in our society. We must go to the root of the poverty problem, which is that someone falls out of the labour market and cannot live on his own income. That is why we are proposing a lift for reintroduction. Performing the responsibility of caring for children gets increased income through our budget. It is gratifying that the new government and the social minister also make the same statement. We go in to do more for those who have drug problems. It is through systematic improvements in a number of areas that we can bring poverty to life. The main priorities of the Workers' Party are therefore in the area of welfare. But we know that what we're going to divide is to be created first. That is why we are strongly committed to research. We are increasing the effort on transport, and we are reducing the tax on labour – everything to promote Norwegian business development. «The working party has made it problematic for us to change the budget» was surrounded by the three parties that have now formed a new government, when the government of Stoltenberg presented its budget. It's in itself a strange statement, not least when we look back a little bit and see that the Right, which is now also running the Ministry of Finance, really moved over $20 billion in its alternative budget last harvest. It was a bit of a statement that it was problematic. No, it's the reality set up against the Sem declaration that is problematic for the new government. The Government declaration does not provide any clarification here. On the one hand, there are billions in more for many good purposes, including purposes that the Labour Party more than likes. But on the other hand, there are also billions of tax reliefs. There is no doubt that the statement supports the right-hand case: tax relief. ‘We will significantly reduce the level of taxation through the landfilling period’ is the quotation from the Government Declaration. None of the other promises from Sem are as concrete as the promises of tax relief. They're realized at NOK 31 billion. If this promise is to be kept, it will have to go beyond other things. In other words, the government statement shows the front page of the medal, but Bondevik must at some point also show the back of the medal. Or maybe it will be so that it is Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss who will show it when the alternative budget is due on 9 November. The Workers' Party shall pursue an active and constructive opposition policy in the coming years. We're going to work to get the best possible impact on our policies and our most important issues. The Bondevik government will have to come to us in many cases if it is to have a majority in favour of a good welfare and distribution policy, a good rural policy and a good agricultural policy. Today's and tomorrow's debate should clarify how Bondevik II views his relationship with the opposition parties on the Stortinget. What lies in the special treatment that the Progress Party has received in the weeks following the election? Hagen was given access to the Sem-Declaration in good time before the other parties at Stortinget, and Hagen was chosen on the top shelf in terms of committee management. After being the father of the new government, Hagen is clearly prepared to act as Bondevik II in a good spirit of progress. Or as it is now called here today, he will be the Government's 'parliamentary basis'. Yes, even today, Hagen and the Advance Party have almost claimed influence over about 80 p.m. the policy. On the other hand, the government parties have argued that they have no party as an established parliamentary basis, or basis, which is today's new terminology. They insist that they will also be able to form a majority with the Labour Party or with SV. On paper, it's quite possible. But the question is whether Bondevik II has been so strongly committed to Hagen that the Government is in practice obliged to turn its policy towards the Progress Party. If the latter is the case, it will undoubtedly have to go beyond important welfare tasks, from the point of view of the Workers' Party. Then there will be a political majority who, according to their promises, place tax relief on those who already have much, in front of lower parental payments in kindergarten, in front of upgrading school or in front of a promise to get those who fall outside, back into working life. Such a choice would imply a right-wing policy that would not be able to receive the Workers' Party's support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1376	In this debate the Labour Party has raised a warning index and urged accountability in economic policy. That's a good promise. Traditionally, the Workers' Party has been a driver of increased public expenditure in the opposition. The fact that the Workers' Party now seems to change strategy and will act responsibly is positive, but we'll see how long it will last. So far, the Workers' Party has tried to turn the declaration debate into a balancing debate, while SV confirms that the party has ambitions to become the driving force on the left. The inability of the Workers' Party to modernise and renew the Party seems to create a debate internally within the Workers' Party. Several have been asked to cut the tight tapes of the LO. Perhaps the Workers' Party's long-standing payroll representative, Gunnar Halvorsen, who, in Aust Agder Blade on 23 October, said: ‘The serious thing about the strong commitment to the Municipal Association and the Electrician Association is that they can manage Ap’s policy by contract. We have several examples of this." My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is whether it is right, as the Workers' Party's long-standing claims, that the Municipal Association can manage the Labour Party's policy by contract. If it's right as the Workers' Party's representative says, does Hill-Marta Solberg think it's right that it should be? And if she doesn't think it's right, does the Labour Party's leadership now intend to take initiatives in relation to the LO and cut off the strong bonds that are clearly there, and on which Halvorsen says there are many "cases of horror"?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1388	The first part of the line from the representative, Sanner, I have to say was a little surprising, because I believe that if the representative, Sanner, takes the time to go back and study the budgets of the Workers' Party when we were last in opposition, it will soon become clear that it does not lead to the correctness of the Workers' Party leading an irresponsible policy in the opposition situation. It didn't happen the two and a half years with the central government, nor is it going to happen in a new period. In fact, the two parties that have perhaps most agreed on defining the framework of economic policy in the Storting, in fact for many, many years, have been the Workers' Party and the Right. We had a fairly similar understanding of the space that was available in the Norwegian economy. What's now a voltage moment is if the right is also attached to it. Opinions given in the first days of the Government could suggest that it might be easy to relax a little in order to cope with this both- and-policy of which the Sem Declaration is so rigid. To the last part of Sanner's line, I would like to say the following: there is a very strong and clear example of the fact that it does not result in the correctness of the Local Association or other federations governing the Labour Party's policy, and then I mention the hospital reform. One of the biggest public sector reforms that has been going on the rails for many, many years is the Workers' Party that has put on the rails: the reform of our hospital system. I just dare to remind you in this room that everyone knows, of course, that it was not a reform that was carried out with the blessing of the Community. We thought the reform was right and necessary, and then we implemented it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1396	There were several of us who were somewhat surprised when the Workers' Party laid out its budget, and not just in political circles. There were also some newspaper commentators who thought that this budget was not a budget for which the Workers' Party could intend to govern, but that it was almost a series of stumble threads for a new government, among other things. the deferral of the investment fee, which costs significant amounts, and some other things. But what I'm really going to ask is the use of the oil fund. An action rule has been adopted for the use of the oil fund. How does the Workers' Party interpret this rule? And does the Labour Party believe that that rule has been followed in the budget of the government of Stoltenberg? There are both commentators and some politicians who do not get these figures to vote when looking at transfers from the oil fund in 2002 in relation to the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1403	First of all, these referred to the stumbling wires. Yes, it is possible that during the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget, some will stumble into the new billion of the Workers' Party to the kindergarten sector. It is possible that someone will stumble into the Workers' Party's strengthening of the aid budget by NOK 1.2 billion. And it is possible that someone in Stortinget will also stumble on many of the other important issues that the Workers' Party has prioritised. But these are not stumbling blocks, these are political priorities. And if anyone wants to prioritize differently, it's still possible, for this budget is not out of date. It is a proposal in Stortinget. If you have any other suggestions on how your country's resources will be made next year, that's what we're going to do in the next few weeks. So those possibilities exist. And let there be no doubt: the Labour Party would more than like to continue to rule on the basis of the government budget that our government provided. We would more than like to see all the important issues in that budget implemented to the point and point. And we still hope, in fact, that a lot of it will remain after the Financial Committee has completed its examination of that budget and the supplement that we are waiting for. So for use of the oil fund. Yeah, it's probably not surprising that the Progress Party is asking questions about it, because the Progress Party was, as far as I recall, one of the two parties in the Stortingen that did not agree with the new action rule for the use of the oil fund. A broad majority of the Stortinges agreed to define how best to reap from the fund that we have built. And there is no doubt on our part that the budget that has been presented is, according to what a majority in the European Parliament has laid down, to use the yield of the Petroleum Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1412	In former Prime Minister Stoltenberg's speeches earlier today, and also through the daily press, I noticed that there has been a slightly different attitude and a slightly different rhetoric from the Workers' Party after the swirling election defeat. And that's actually quite natural because the Workers' Party made a historically poor choice and SV a historically good choice. That means that the centre of gravity is shifted also on the left-hand side of Norwegian politics. But what that also means is that we are sitting with a government that stands more distant from the SV and what I also assume is that the Workers' Party wants, than we've had in many, many years. That means that when we now imagine that we might be sitting with a government that neither the SV nor the Workers' Party want, throughout the four-year period – a government that is to sit on Carl I. Hagen's grace, and that is to continuously balance the humiliation of the Government and support it – then this gives us an opportunity to think through how we are actually going to deal with these questions in the longer term. What it really is about is that politics is not shopping, as the Workers' Party has been doing in the last growing period. They have brought matters before the Storting, and in one case they have gone to that party – because there we can get things through – then they have gone there the next time, then there, so that the whole of politics disappears into what really seems like a supermarket of politics. In order to cooperate, there is one thing at stake: not only respect for other parties, but also the willingness to adjust their own positions, and also be willing to do so over a longer period of time than only in a single matter. This means that we may now face a period of four years in which both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre may have to realize that they are in opposition to a government that will have more than enough to contend with – that's a different story now – but at the same time it also means that it offers opportunities in the longer term to build new alliances in Norway in line with the alliances that are built in many of our neighbouring countries. The Norwegian Social Democratic Party is by no means the only party throughout Europe that does not engage in binding cooperation with other parties. And my challenge to Hill-Marta Solberg is: does she also realize that this can be a development that we get in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1424	When I hear the way the representative Djupedal describes what he calls shopping, in order to form a majority in the Stortinget, it is, to a large extent, a way of describing what has been many minority governments' lives in Norwegian politics for quite many years. It's actually not that we've had governments that have had a clear majority base in Storting, for a very, very long time. On the contrary, we have had minority governments that have been able to rule on the basis that you did not initially know if you had a clear majority when the cases were to be presented to the Stortinget, but had to go to negotiations in the Stortinget. Probably few parties know more about what that life is like than just the Working Party. That's what led to the Workers' Party's leadership three to four years ago, for the first time in fact, inviting other parties, we invited the parties in the centre of closer cooperation to build possible majority formations. We have done that in recognition of the weaknesses of minority rule. It can be implemented, especially if you have a constructive and good opposition to deal with, but it's very demanding. It's not stable, and it's not a predictable steering set. It forms the basis for the Workers' Party's orientation towards other parties in order to build majority alliances. We haven't changed our view of it since the election. When the option that stood in the way of a majority solution, namely the centre option, was declared dead, the Labour Party had hoped and wished that it would be possible to build a majority constellation on the centre-left side. But it didn't happen like that. It wasn't our choice. It was Christian People's Party's choice that created a different constellation. But the Workers' Party will work in opposition to build alliances. We're going to do it to SV. We're going to do it to the Center Party. We still believe that a future majority voting solution in Norwegian policy is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1429	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1432	Norwegian voters only like the government changes they take the initiative themselves, it has been claimed. It's probably striking. It is possible to interpret the results of the elections in many ways during the harvest, but in one respect it is quite clear that there is a desire for a change of government. The spokesperson of the largest opposition party, who resigned Prime Minister Stoltenberg, said in his main post that SV’s progress cannot be interpreted as a desire for a right triangle. That's right, of course. But it is part of this picture that the return of the Workers' Party was significantly greater than the progress of the SV, and that the voters have put together a magnification where the centre of gravity is further to the right on the left-right-axis than in the previous period. In this way, the new tripartite government must be said to be an entirely adequate response to the wishes of the voters. At the same time, this tripartite government is invading something new in Norwegian policy. Cooperation between a liberal party, a conservative party and a Christian Democratic party is in most European countries the most natural of all. That's what's more of a habit. In Norway, there's news, and there's a news that, in my opinion, is reason to greet you with joy. It is clear from the declaration presented by the new government, which shows a completely different emphasis on policy than the outgoing government. The new government emphasises the following four main considerations: respect for human life, human dignity personal responsibility freedom for individual protection of the family Nothing of this is the values that these three batches package alone, as opposed to others. But what's peculiar to these three parties is that they put these values first, and it involves a clear shift in the weight in the relationship between freedom and community for the sake of freedom. It has been heard from today's SV and the Workers' Party that in these parties it is still thought that the community is identical to the state and municipality, and Community solutions are the solutions produced by the public. Government parties have a completely different understanding. Community solutions exist for users, for individual users, and it does not matter whether they are provided by private or public authorities. The new government is called a cooperative government. It is not just a declared objective of cooperation between these three parties. There is also a declared objective of cooperation with the Storting and, in particular, of the international perspective of freedom and community, it is vital that this expansion be able to cooperate over the next four years. For we are in an international situation, where the risk is no longer represented by powerful states with totalitarian ideologies that may establish a terrorist balance between themselves. We are in a completely new situation where values such as freedom and popular rule and respect for the integrity of individuals are threatened. The threat no longer comes from states. It comes from groups willing to use any instrument from civil aviation for the use of pathogens. This means that we need to think about security in a completely new way, and we need to think about security policy as something far more comprehensive and something far more offensive than before. In this picture, it is vital that Norway shows that we are willing to share responsibility, that it is the real challenge, and that Norway is willing to share responsibility for the fact that all people on this globe should be able to live as far as possible in freedom and have security of life and limbs. It is my hope that when this four-year period is over, historians will be able to see that we are successful in that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-25.ana.ud853e1460	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that this morning's sitting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - It's passed.
