ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e87	The representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen, Jon Lilletun, Grethe G. Fossum, John Dale, Rune E. Kristiansen and Johan J. Jakobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. Applications for sickness leave are submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Kristin Halvorsen from 5 June and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Heikki Holmås, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e126	Heikki Holmås is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e131	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e136	I have the honour to propose Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e141	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e149	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e170	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the President's introductory speech be set at 15 minutes, for the main speakers for each party group and the independent representative of the Committee, and for the members of the Government 10 minutes and for the other speakers 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e177	Initially, there may be reason to stress that when the Gardermo project is now being dealt with in Stortinget – hopefully for the last time – it is the Riksrevision study on the operational profitability of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban which is really at the heart of it. The two positions of the Control and Constitutional Committee today are both to be seen as the Storting's response to the conclusions of the National Audit Office. The purpose of the study was to assess whether the Ministry of Transport had provided the Stortinget with accurate and sufficient information on the operational profitability and uncertainty of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. In particular, the National Audit Office has focused on assessing whether all significant cost and income factors were included in the business-economy calculations and whether the management of the uncertainty was adequately addressed. The national audit is critical on several points, in particular the NSB and the Ministry of Transport’s handling of the Gardermoban is being criticised. The Gardermobane analyses of the uncertainty of the project are characterised as far worse than the Aerodrome Analysis of the Aviation Agency. Other documents and investigations speak in the same direction. A government-appointed selection chaired by Professor Per Kristen Mydske issued on 1 September 1999 NOW 1999:28, which takes into account an evaluation of the planning and implementation of the Gardermo project. The so-called 'Mydske' report is a comprehensive document that the Committee chose to wait for before we started working on the matter. The barrel report, which the so-called Review Committee, appointed by the Board of Directors of the NSB Gardermobanen and chaired by the current State Council of Tore Tønne, has also been an insightful document for the Committee. A comprehensive list of a total of 97 documents has been included as Annex 1 of the Inst. S. No 256 for 2000-2001. The Committee has also conducted open consultations over five days in January to February 2000, and the minutes are set out in the Innst. S. No 256. In this context, I also point out that, on the recommendation of the Committee on 4 April 2000, the Stortinget decided to set up an investigation commission led by Professor Eivind Smith at the University of Oslo to carry out a broad review of the investigation, planning, design and development of new major aerodromes for the east and the Gardermoban. For the sake of clarity, I also mention two working groups appointed by the Ministry of Transport to ensure the quality of the investigation, the so-called Reference Group which issued its report on 7 May 1992, and the Verification Group which reviewed the transport analysis and issued its report on 20 March 1992. I'll get closer to this in a little bit. Today, when the Stortinge deals with two comprehensive positions from the Control Committee on different aspects of what we can call the Gardermo complex, we hopefully also set the finish line for a debate that – with varying strengths – has been on the political agenda for 20 years. With the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Vidar Kleppe, the other parties in the Committee agree that it is now possible to conclude the debate on the Gardermo case in Stortinget. In retrospect, it may not be so difficult to understand that the debate on a new main airport for the east – and in particular the conflict over the Gardermo as a location option – was both long and heated. Despite this, it is all about one of the largest land-based development projects in Norway over time, where both planning and development were both extensive and complex. And the interest was not diminished by a surprising victory for the Hurum option, with subsequent battles over weather conditions and the re-election of alternatives in favor of the Gardermoen. So it's not surprising that the case has triggered a strong commitment, but this commitment has also led to a forest of claims and counterclaims in which it has not been easy to clarify. The matter has been characterised by a fundamental mistrust. However, it is my hope that the current two-setting control committee will enable the Storting to draw the natural and correct conclusions. In the light of the controversy and conflict of the past, it may be appropriate to be surprised that the two settings are both outrageous and rather coherent in their assessments, even when the Committee expresses criticism. There is a broad consensus on assessments and conclusions in both positions, disregarding the Progress Party and the representative Kleppe, who have a reality description and – more importantly – conclusions that differ from the other parties in the Committee. I assume that the Progress Party and the representative Kleppe themselves will justify their proposals on national law against the former Councils of State Opseth, Rønbeck and Lie. The broad consensus on assessments and conclusions is, of course, due to the fact that the central aspects of the Gardermo project are subject to thorough evaluation and/or examination of expert samples such as the Tune Committee and the Mydske Committee, while the Riksrevision has provided a thorough report on the operational profitability of the aerodrome development and the construction of the Gardermoban. In addition, everyone who wanted it has had a good opportunity to make their vision known, cf. the attachment list in the configuration as well as the record from the open hearings. Of course, in addition to the report of the National Audit Office, the report of the Stortingen Investigation Commission, Smith Commission, has been central to the work of the Control Committee. There was a great deal of disagreement in the Stortinget about appointing the Commission at all, and it is therefore not surprising that the Workers' Party and SV use a lot of space in the setting to repeat their resistance to the appointment and to minimize the value of the Commission's work. As a right-wing representative – not as a case rapporteur – I am strongly tempted to say that the comments of the Workers' Party and SV have a certain sense of duty. At least it is a step forward when the representative Kristin Halvorsen in his special remark ‘recognizes the importance of the Commission’s work. It has killed a number of rumors, allegations, conspiracy theories and thus strongly contributes to putting the finishing line for a debate that did not seem to end». Yes, just now, I want to add, because this SV quote is a strong confirmation that the bulk of the population had important reasons to appoint a review commission. In fact, it was particularly underlined: ‘An important consideration for the establishment of a review commission is also to have non-contested speculations.’ But then the SV and the Workers' Party were opposed. I am pleased that they now admit that it was right to appoint the Commission. Of course, it can be claimed that there has not been any new information or facts that you had not heard before. That is certainly true, but at the same time there is no reason to underestimate the importance that all the issues are now assessed by a broad, independent body, which cannot be suspected of having any interest in turning the conclusions in one direction or another. In this way, the evaluations and conclusions reached by the Control Committee – and hopefully the Stortinget will also be reached today – have gained far greater legitimacy in opinion than they would have had had had had only been made, perhaps the same, conclusions due to the previous examination in the Committee and the open hearings. It is also no exaggeration to say that it would have been impossible for the Control Committee to carry out a similar study carried out by the Smith Commission within a reasonable framework of resource use. The right conclusion is that we now have the clarification we wanted when Stortinget appointed a separate investigation commission. Let me then return to the Riksrevisions report – I had almost said – certainly to the great joy of the National Auditor. A joint committee joins the main conclusions of the Riksrevision, and a joint committee emphasises that it adheres to the criticism that has arisen both from the Riksrevision and the Mudske Committee. In this way, it may be useful to recall the naturalness which obviously has not been so obvious in the Ministry of Transport, namely that all the costs and revenues generated by a project are to be included as a basic prerequisite for business-economic profitability calculations. Unfortunately, later, the Stortinge’s decision to expand both the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban based on the fact that the projects were to be economically viable and did not represent a real cost to the State has not been met. An overall committee agrees that a too optimistic picture of the business profitability of the Gardermo project was presented. For the main aerodrome, the Riksrevision may state that all cost elements were included when the Stortinget took its decision in 1992. But the Riksrevision criticises that a later incurred cost of 275 million. kr, related to ensuring the financing of the main aerodrome, was not included in the project cost side. The National Audit Service believes that the Aviation Agency had done a thorough job on the uncertainty analyses. There may also be reason to stress that although the development itself has been successful, the Mydske Committee has pointed out that there were weaknesses in the relationship between the development and preparation of operations and that the entry problems in the autumn of 1998 and winter 1999 show that the operational tasks were not as well-managed as the development itself. With regard to the Gardermoban, the Riksrevision's criticism is far more serious. Substantial costs related to land acquisition, VAT and insurance were not included in the profitability calculations. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the Storting did not get a comprehensive picture of the project's uncertainty in either St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 or on later occasions. The Committee also considers it critical that the Stortinget was also not informed that the uncertainty was assessed differently for the Gardermoban and the main aerodrome, and that the uncertainty was managed far more thoroughly for the main aerodrome than for the runway. The more critical this becomes when Stortinget did not get either the opinion of the Reference Group or the Verification Group on realism in the calculations of the train’s share of public transport. In fact, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision when it states that since the Ministry of Transport to the Stortinget decided to draw the positive conclusions of the Verification Group, it would be considered that it would also be natural to bring to the knowledge of the Stortinge the critical objections of the Verification Group. The criticism from the Riksrevision has also been confirmed by both the Tune and Mydske committees, both in terms of the decision base and implementation. In this context, I would like to stress the main conclusion of the Smith Commission, namely that no illegitimate methods have been used for investigation, planning, design or development. This conclusion is important to emphasise, and it alone justifies the need for a separate review commission. There is also reason to believe that without the Smith Commission's report, more myths about the Gardermo project would have survived and would have been further enhanced by the uncertainty, which, in turn, would have been a continuing burden on key players in the long-term political struggle for the main aerodrome. Several key actors have to endure criticism, but the Smith Commission, with a broad pen, confirms that they used legitimate methods in a political struggle. However, the Smith Commission has critical comments that show that the preparation of the case could have been better. This applies, inter alia, to: mixing of weather-related roles, as regards the role of Opseth State Council as regards the Reference Group, the availability of the Gardermoen and the dissemination to the State Council of the Republic of Ireland of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of the protection of groundwater. The main purpose of the Smith Commission was to obtain factual information which could be relevant to assessing the breach of the Liability Act, including whether the government’s disclosure obligations towards the Stortinge were fulfilled, as formulated in the Enlarged Decision of 4 April last year. Furthermore, the Committee does not object to the Commission’s making a certain range of issues subject to further scrutiny. The Committee understands that, with the extensive mandate and limited time available to the Commission, it has, for example: the need to avoid unnecessary duplication of work itself limited in scope of the Commission's work. I think it might be useful to remind ourselves that the Commission's task was not to make a judgment in the long-standing dispute over where the main airport should have been – see that's a political question and has nothing to do with the liability law. However, the Commission itself states that, within the limits of what is politically possible or desirable, it must be required that the person who achieves his/her view does not use methods contrary to the law or other standards on which the administration and the Storing must be regarded as bound. The Commission also notes that the liability law and/or disclosure obligation may have been broken, even if the outcome of the proceedings of the Grand Duchy would have been the same. There are two key requirements that must be satisfied that the Liability Act can be said to be broken in such a way that a State Council can be set up for criminal liability. The first is that there is sufficient evidence that the legal requirements for conduct are objectively broken. The second is that possible offences have occurred in such a way that the law's requirements for subjective guilt, i.e. continued, carelessness, etc., is broken. In case both of these requirements are met, punishment comes in. The Commission's report is comprehensive, but it is important to point out that it has not taken a position as to whether there are grounds for action or whether action should be taken. The Commission takes the view that, in the spring of 1990, the Minister for Transport Lars Gunnar Lie failed to provide his colleagues in the government with true and comprehensive information that important arguments of a professional nature spoke in favour of exploring an alternative alongside the Gardermoen and shared solution. Here there is reason to recall that criminal blame exists only if both objective errors and subjective guilt have been proven. It is not sufficient to establish that, for example: the obligation to provide information has been breached in such a way that there would be a basis for parliamentary reaction. However, the Commission recommends that further consideration be given to whether there is a basis for bringing an action for national law and, where appropriate, whether action should be taken. The Commission has not taken a position on whether Lars Gunnar Lie has committed crimes in criminal matters, and the Commission itself states, even if its assessment of whether there is objectively a breach of the information obligation of the Council of State that their conclusion is ‘of course not the final one’. In another context, the Commission considers that the government's obligation to provide information to the Storting must be objectively assumed to have been broken by the lack of comment on the rewording by the Ministry of Transport and the Aviation of a matter by the Transport Committee of the Storting concerning «accessibility on the Gardermoen». Parliamentary responsibility rests primarily on the then Council of State Kjell Opseth, but the Commission emphasises that there is no basis for claiming that the Council of State Opseth knew or ought to know of the circumstances in which the obligation to provide information can be objectively said to be broken. The majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the SV – have concluded, for their part, that the majority does not consider that there is any need to proceed with investigation in order to clarify whether there is a breach of the Liability Act and/or the Information Obligation of any State Council. The majority emphasise that State Council Lie actually in the form of R-notes mentions the relevant options, and it also appears that there were shared views within the government on the proposals of the Council of State not to open up the investigation of other alternatives. In other words, the majority of the Committee – Workers’ Party, Right, Christian People’s Party and SV – do not need to assess whether there is a basis for further action on the issue of addressing the State Councils Lie and Opseth. The majority believe to know enough to reject such a proposal. The purpose of a national court preparation must be to clarify the matter more clearly, but the majority therefore believe that the questions that need to be resolved now seem to be so. However, the minority of the Committee – the Party of Advances and the representative Vidar Kleppe – is of a different opinion and considers that there is a basis for the appointment of a Protocol Committee to address the issue of whether or not to address the former Councils Lars Gunnar Lie, Kjell Opseth and Sissel Rønbeck. With this I also refer to the notes in both settings and recommend the Stortinget that Document No. 18 for 2000-2001 and document 3:10 for 1997-98 are annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e268	I have two questions for the President-in-Office. Firstly, does he agree with me that there must have been some sort of delay or incurrence when, at the beginning of his speech, he concluded that the proposals of the Progress Party led us to take a stand and talk about our proposal on national law? I assume that he will agree, on further consideration, that the appointment of a Protocol Committee is the next step in assessing whether or not to take national court action, and that neither the Progress Party's proposal is a conclusion that a national court action should be taken. He was also inside, so far, at the end of his post. I think this is important, because it is important in a process of studies to assess whether there is a basis for and whether an action should be taken, not to draw conclusions at a preparatory stage. The appointment of a Protocol Committee is the next step, but it is the Protocol Committee itself which, in the event that it will conclude with an attitude towards the Storting whether or not to refer to the Court of Justice. I would like to ask him to confirm that he was there for a while. I also assume that he agrees that an additional element in assessing charges against government councils or government agencies is also that they should have the same treatment for possible violations of the law that apply to others in society. Weight must also be added, and not only to clarify all the content of the matter, which he was at the end of his article. There should be no misunderstanding between other citizens being charged with a court of law for things that they may have done, while government councils and government representatives should not be able to risk the same thing. It is in itself an independent element that must be included in the question of whether to proceed to the next step of appointing a protocol committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e277	It is possible that, in my speech, I formulated myself in such a way that it did not appear clearly enough, as Mr Hagen rightly stresses, that the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Kleppe, implies that we want to take a first step through a protocol committee, and then the result of that will have to be the next step. There is no conclusion from any party that one should travel national law. I also underlined in my post that I assumed that the Progress Party and the representative Kleppe would explain his view later, so we would have it confirmed. So this is because it is an additional element that you should get everything on the table and end the debate on the Gardermo project, whether it would lead to national law or not. From our point of view, both politicians and opinion have now been given such a thorough overview of the state of things that there is a basis for ending. For the Right, which had several government councils and government representatives who at that time wanted investigations of solutions other than shared solutions and the Gardermoban, we believe that any knowledge, for example. on the attitudes of the Aviation Agency, as the Smith Commission points out to Lie, would not have been of crucial importance to us. We recognize that the majority in Stortinget had decided that Gardermoen should be the airport alternative, and that it was a political decision that was not intended to be reviewed in national law. We, for our part, feel that it is right to set a finish line today, that there is a basis for asserting – both on a political level and in the opinion, if you can distinguish between the two – that it is well suited to changing the sun and the wind, and that it should not encroach on statements by either politicians, state councils or representatives of the city that some feel the need to clarify by preparing a possible national law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e284	I noticed that the representative Ludvigsen now drew some conclusions from the Mudsk Committee, from the work of the National Audit Office, etc. Last year, the Right wasn't able to draw a single conclusion. All pages should be re-examined. The Smith Commission was allowed to illuminate a number of pages, because they were illuminated. It is accepted this year. The representative Ludvigsen pointed out that SV said some important work had been done. Yes, some important work has been done, because the expectations of this hall cannot be set so very high. But doesn't the representative Ludvigsen agree with me that you can expect the Storting not to go on rumors and conspiracy theories? Does not the representative Ludvigsen agree with me that it can be expected that Stortinget will remember its own decisions – the right decision has been taken? The fact that the Right is kneeling down for the Workers' Party a few times is nothing to examine. It is fully lawful to fall on your knees, and it is entirely lawful to push something into your knees. There's nothing to look at. Can it not be expected that the Stortinget will be able to distinguish between overall perspectives and details? I think you can expect it. But when you're not able to distinguish between details and overall perspectives, when you're not able to remember your own decisions, and when you're not able to reject conspiracy theories and rumors, that's fine. The investigation commission then put this to death. But I have quite different expectations for this room that you are able to cut through a case that has been reviewed so many times. I would like to ask the representative Ludvigsen: does he now agree to remember the decisions that have been taken on the right to make the premise for the work of various governments in the 1990s? Does he now want to distinguish between details and overall perspectives? What happened because the Right wasn't able to do any of this last year, but then all things should have gone through? It's a long list of unanswered questions that the Smith Commission has not answered, because they said they were answered. Now Ludvigsen is able to answer him as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e293	As I said in my post, I feel quite certain that it has been useful to review the thorough and after every lengthy process that this matter has received in the organs of Storting. The creation of the Smith Commission was in order to put an end to the process of a non-hidden sample which could not be suspected of having taken into account other than to obtain facts as far as possible within the mandate and within the time frame given. So I feel that with the work of the Smith Commission, and with the documents that have been central to this context, the Riksrevision report, the Mydske report and the Tune report, the hearing, there has been a basis that was better than what we had when we created the Smith Commission. And I feel that it has benefited the matter and not harmed the matter that you got the Smith Commission. You can almost get the impression that Myrvoll believes that the Smith Commission has not benefited the matter. I therefore remind you of what his party leader has written in the setting, and as I quoted in my post, it is believed that ‘the Commission’s work has been important. It has killed a number of rumors, allegations, conspiracy theories and thus strongly contributes to putting the finishing line for a debate that did not seem to end». I understand that the SV actually says that the Smith Commission was a necessary instrument for setting a finish line. I haven't put the decisive emphasis on rumors, claims and conspiracy theories, as SV mentions here, but I think it's important that not only we on the political team in the Stortinget feel comfortable closing the matter, but that it also has a legitimacy in the opinion, and I feel that this is now a basis for. I feel strongly that a good part of the accusations that were in the hints, rumors and conspiracy theories, as SV characterizes it as, in relation to some politicians in previous governments and in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e300	I ask for the word to clarify a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e307	The President expects that it can take Inge Myrvoll to his post later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e310	I think, at any rate, an overall increase in today's debate can agree on a significant aspect, that now, as the rapporteur quite rightly said, the basis, also on the basis of the Smith Commission's report, is to set a finish line for the Gardermo case. I would like to take this opportunity to also thank the rapporteur for both the article today and for his work on presenting this matter to Stortinget. One of the key points of the Smith Commission report to which the Workers' Party has referred, to which reference has also been made, but to which the other parties have not found the basis for emphasis, is the Smith Commission’s reference to the importance of ‘educated media’. I would like to ask the case rapporteur if he does not agree with the Smith Commission's report on pointing out that the media also has a special responsibility. There is reason to note the sharp criticism that the Smith Commission has raised against parts of Norwegian media in the Gardermo cause, and as it says is justified. Strongly trendy journalism has been revealed, the Commission determines. Since the case rapporteur was not in this field at all, it might be good to ask him if he does not share the Commission's assessments at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e320	Of course, I've also read the Smith Commission's characteristics of the media. When I did not spend time with it in my main post, it must be acknowledged that it was not possible to cover the 300 pages of the Smith Commission's report within 15 minutes, when at the same time I was going to cover a document as important as the Riksrevision's position and the rest. But as far as the media is concerned, of course, I agree that the importance of 'durable media' is, just as the importance of audacity in general is important. It is clear that the media has committed an infringement in this matter, which – I was saying – in too many other cases. But I think we also have to take inward that the media has been useful in the process that has been, not only by pointing to conditions that are critical, but also by being the corrective thing that the media should be in relation to us politicians. So the picture is probably not just black, it's at least black and white, as well as some other shades. I agree with Mr Schaug that it would be desirable for the media in any context to be both correct and more balanced. It's one of the tasks that politicians are going to have, changing the sun and the wind in relation to the media, and not letting us run the media alone. But I'm of the opinion that the media have also played a useful role in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e329	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e332	Today we can finally set the finish line for the development of a new main airfield, and I refer you to the rapporteur's posts in this way. I will not contribute to using the debate for political polemics and squabbling, although it would have been very tempting. It was a goal of the Smith Commission to make claims about illegitimate methods that they had come to know. After the investigation has been carried out, there are strikingly few of the claims, rumors and accusations that have poisoned the debate on the main airport in the east over many years, which have proved to be a closer look. A large number of the claims that are in themselves correct have been removed from their context, or have gained far greater importance than they deserve as a contribution to explaining the history of the aerodrome axis. Not infrequently, the Smith Commission has got the impression that a claim is believed and added weight because it fits into a view of the reality that those people had already formed. Part of the criticism also seems to be based on notions that the question of new main aerodrome had a professionally correct answer, and that it was illegitimate if the political solution were different. The review has provided the Commission with a completely different picture of the main features of the aerodrome axis than its members had formed in advance through the media and otherwise. There is reason to believe that the image that the members had formed in advance does not differ significantly from that of the general interested TV viewers and newspaper readers most. The debate on Hurum's slumming in the spring of 1990 has received a lot of attention. Several of the most dramatic claims — such as sabotage and killing — are linked to this part of the story. The Commission notes that the Hurum case has received far greater attention than there is a factual basis for it. Also, allegations of illegitimate methods during the administrative and political process of the Spring 1990 Storing Decision to plan for the Gardermoen decision to place the airport there in autumn 1992 have received considerable attention. Much of this criticism coincides with the flood of allegations that former Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth has used illegitimate methods to achieve the party's goal of getting the airport to Gardermoen. The Commission notes that attention is also distorted on this point. The use of illegitimate methods has not been demonstrated in the battle for Gardermoen. Many of the steps on the way there were taken before Opseth joined as the Council of State. In retrospect, the time of the Syse government appears to be decisive. During this period, Minister of Transport Lars Gunnar Lie went rather unilaterally in order not to explore alternatives other than the Gardermoen and split the solution. Neither the other members of the government nor the Stortinge were informed of the arguments used to investigate at least one further option. It was also during this period that the weather measurements at Hurum were completed in a way that later gave rise to many accusations and deep mistrust that everything went right and proper. The debate on the airfield affair is marked by allegations and accusations of irresponsible and even illegal behaviour during the preparation of the airport at Gardermoen. All the main features of the administrative process towards the aerodrome downgrading decision have been governed by the leadership and decisions of the Stortinget at all times. A typical example is the fate of the Hobøl option in the final phase: when Hobøl was not investigated at the same level of detail as Gardermoen, it was simply because the bulk of the population would not have such an investigation. Since the Stortinget decided in the spring of 1990 that it would be planned only for Gardermoen, the Commission has not revealed any example of the decision taken by the Stortinget, which is based essentially on misleading or deficient information. In particular, it is important to note that in the autumn of 1992 the final decision to start the development leaped out of a votering order that the Storting itself had established. On this basis, the Smith Commission finds it striking that not only external experts, but also some of those who themselves were on the Storting in the crucial period, have later argued that the ministry and government have acted contrary to the will of the Storting. The debate provides many examples of strong and often very trending attacks on individuals. The two who have been most vulnerable to such attacks are Kjell Opseth and Steinar Killi. Both Opseth and Killi were central to the planning work for Gardermoen. They have an equivalent part of the political and administrative responsibility for a procedure which the Commission has, subject to certain reservations, characterised as extensive, tidy and thorough. Although, of course, objections can be raised to some parts of such a complex process as this, the Smith Commission has found that most and most serious accusations against the process lack reasonable grounds. About Kjell Opseth, the Smith Commission is pleased to mention that a significant part of the allegations and accusations of illegitimate conditions that have been addressed to him relate to phases in the airfield when he was not Minister of Transport, nor did he have parliamentary and constitutional responsibility for planning and for the ministry's relationship with the Stortinget. It seems that many have forgotten that Opseth only joined the State Council in November 1990. Then many of the steps of a political nature towards the Gardermoen were already taken. So a number of accusations don't take account of chronology, others seem to be building on an unclear distinction between political and professional disagreements, and on the other hand claims of illegitimate methods. Several examples have been given that the case preparation should have been better. Such examples have also been provided by the National Audit Office and the Mudske Committee. As complex and comprehensive as the preparation of this case has been, there was hardly any reason to expect all parts of the process to meet ideal requirements. However, there is little evidence that the quality of the case preparation in this case, seen as a whole, has been worse than in many other major issues concerning development that the Stortinget has dealt with. However, the main impression of the Smith Commission is not that the process has been dominated by errors and shortcomings. It is important to remember that the issue of the development of the main aerodrome with the accommodation system was unusually extensive and complicated, both on a Norwegian and international scale. As far as the Commission can see, the preparation of the case up to the decision on the collapse in the autumn of 1992 was essentially tidy and thorough. The main derogation applies to certain parts of the design of the Gardermobanen. This description is as close as possible to the Smith Commission. Of course, the many reports made about the Gardermo and the flight find out things that should have been done better – looking up to the ideal. It's e.g. correctly that the economic profitability of the flight was excessive – or too optimistic, as reported in the reports – but it is also appropriate to demonstrate that this was not why you decided for air trains. You should have it anyway. It was a political wish from the socio-economic point of view and from the environmental point of view. In practical policy, there were no realistic alternatives to the flight. Remarkably many claims fall away when one takes the trouble to get into the matter, said Jusprofessor and Head of the Commission, Eivind Smith, when the report was presented. I agree, and that is why the Workers' Party was not a member of the investigation. We knew, for example. on the role of Lars Gunnar Lie, and considered that it was not essential to the substance of the matter. It's worth noting that the majority's conclusion is not to go further on that matter. Thus, the new information from the government notes has not changed the conclusion of the Workers' Party. What happened at Rome and Hellerud, in my opinion, is very serious, with great consequences for people and the environment. It is mentioned in several reports, and I refer to my speech from the previous debate when the proposal on the investigation commission was under consideration. There have been critical aspects mentioned in the vote. But I don't think there are many who have undergone such an examination and stood as stunned as Kjell Opseth – a crystal clear release both by him and the Workers' Party. He has had to endure more than anyone else in this matter. And I haven't registered a single one that has cost itself to apologize. As such, ‘large’ should be some. They should not miss that opportunity, because they have to look for a long way to go, including among bigots. To the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Kleppe's request for preliminary national law is little to be added. The attitude shows that the most extremes are isolated, and I have come out of the count of how many national court preparations and mistrust proposals the representative Carl I. Hagen has delivered in this house. It's more like some kind of happening or regular ritual, so I don't want to spend any more time on it. The Smith Commission also mentions the role of the media – which I have already had – and the importance of the sober media. I'm content to refer to the setting and the Smith Commission report. The planes go up and down. Now we have a great airport. The size got what they wanted – a little more problems, a little more expensive, but the criticism has to be proportionate to the realities and alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e390	The Christian People's Party is, as others have already touched on today, prepared to end this major issue of expansion. St. pp. No 90 for 1991-92 is the main document itself in this extensive expansion of both the main aerodrome of the east and the Gardermoban. This setting was presented by former Minister for Transport Kjell Opseth. The Musketeer states that the calculations carried out are to be regarded as disc-bombs in terms of traffic forecasts and income calculations, where some costs were omitted and other estimates were too optimistic, as well as significant technical and environmental weaknesses, particularly those revealed in the eastern Marka area. Doesn't this indicate an overwork, or haste? Does the representative of Husøy agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e401	I can repeat what I have already said, and what I have written in the comments on this matter. Yes, it was urgent. Yes, things could be better prepared. But I want to remember – and then I want to refer to St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92, underpinning the main decision on the airport and the Gardermoban, and in particular the Gardermoban – that the Gardermoban was not adopted because of the economic viability of the business. That was additional information. And to the extent that I can say that former State Council Kjell Opseth has acted critically, he prides himself on his employees in the business-economic profitability, which was overestimated. It also says the Smith Commission: he was in good faith, he was proud of his employees and the predictions that had been taken into account. It might eventually be admitted was stupid. But it's done. However, that was not the basis for the decision. It was not central to the debate or the setting when Stortinget adopted a new main aerodrome with the accommodation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e406	First an observation and then a question: I record that the main figure woman of the Workers' Party uses most of her time to refer and argue for or against the Smith Commission, while emphasising that it was completely unnecessary. The Smith Commission was unnecessary, the Workers' Party was against an investigation, and they also found it totally unnecessary in retrospect. Nevertheless, the Labour Party representative spends most of his time paying attention to the Smith Commission, and she concludes that the report is an important document in terms of getting clarity about who was responsible and who was not responsible. I think the Workers' Party should admit that it was important and correct that we carried out that exercise. So to the question: The representative Husøy said – and got it almost to sound like an excuse – that the Gardermo project was no worse than many other projects that had such an extent. Can it not be that the Workers' Party believes that it should be easier to carry out proper profitability calculations, to prepare and do a proper foundation work before launching the project, because it is nothing worse than many other projects? For the Right, we want to be a driver to prevent projects from coming out as crooked as this did, also financially, but then you cannot have the attitude that the Workers' Party's representative expressed here, namely that there are so many other projects that have come out badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e413	When I use large parts of my post on the Workers' Party's notes in the setting based on the Smith Commission and direct quotes, it's because I think it belongs in a nuanced picture of what is actually the Smith Commission's analysis and conclusion. And I think – the representative Ludvigsen has excused me – that I may have picked out as good quotations as the rapporteur has done in this matter! No, there's not going to be any excuse for a weak pre-work or for an optimistic estimate, but there's going to be some explanation for that, and that's what's the point. We all agree on the critical value of profitability calculations, and in the past we have also agreed to change the instructions for calculating the profitability and safety of larger projects. I believe we have learned from this matter. We're not going to set matters up against each other, but we're going to take all things equally seriously. That's what was the point of my first post, that we have to deal with exceedances in connection with the construction of the new main aerodrome and the flight on the same line as we are dealing with other major budget cracks. To some extent, we have also addressed some of the problems by changing the instructions and looking very carefully at how to deal with the uncertainty. I don't think we're going to be scared to bet on big projects in the future, but learn from what we can actually learn from. And that's probably a point, which the representative Svein Ludvigsen usually also uses to agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e422	I am pleased that the representative of Inger Lise Husøy also stresses that the criticism that has been raised is justified, and that it is about whether the criticism should be able to have consequences for anyone or not, that the main difference is between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party on the question of the Protocol Committee. Otherwise, I really think it's amazing how easy it is to ignore that it's 7,000 million. kr, which has been used here by government budget funds to invest in a railway which was not ever weighed up by the Storting against other ways of spending this money. That's what's real here. Many people want larger investment funds, for example: for transportation. During budgetary proceedings, there is a raging struggle for investment in railway operations and investment in roads, tunnels, bridges, racial protection, etc., where there are hard-pressed debates for amounts far less than DKK 7 billion. This business was organised through a limited liability company, and it was told Stortinget that it would not cost the taxpayers 5 cents. In addition, they said initially that this is going to be 8 pst. real returns on the invested amounts – so this should not cost the State 5 cents. And then the majority of the capital has written off 7 billion in loans. If we had got information that was correct, that it was not 18 billion kroner that was proposed together, but 25 billion kroner, it would have been a completely different discussion. Does Inger Lise Husøy agree that it is more than critically likely, that 7 billion kroner have been spent without it being weighed up against other ways of spending the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e435	The representative of Inger Lise Husøy will not rule out that the policies and proposals of the Progress Party on how to deal with the construction of a new private airfield, perhaps would have led to the same budget and perhaps even more. That's the point of that case. I refer to my post, and that it is the Progress Party that once again is isolated in its most extreme conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e442	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e446	The opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the National Audit Office’s investigation into the main aerodrome and the business profitability of the Gardermoban, Document No. 3:10 for 1997-98, is the starting point for this comprehensive case. Very many different groups and individuals have assessed this major construction issue, which is probably one of the largest land-based projects in Norway. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s comprehensive study has been to assess whether the Ministry of Transport has provided the Stortinget with accurate and sufficient information on the economic viability of the project and its uncertainties. In particular, the National Audit Office has focused on whether all significant costs and income factors are included in business-economic calculations in the many issues raised by the Stortinge in this construction case, and then in such a way that the information provided a sound basis for the decisions. The majority received the Riksrevisions report for consideration on 8 June 1998, on which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to postpone its proceedings pending the closure of the Ministry’s investigation into the Mudske Committee. This selection was mandated to look at planning and development and focus on the decision-making process, responsibilities, organisation of work, financial estimates, cost management, quality procedures and information flows. In addition, emphasis was to be placed on the environment. The criticism of the Mudsk Committee was strong on the basis of a number of factors that have contributed to the fact that the Gardermoban has not become as profitable as provided in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92, conditions which should have been identified at the level stage and thus presented to the Stortinget before final decisions were taken. The Committee decided to continue its work, including: through open hearings, where the sum of documentation and opinions formed the basis for the wish for an external examination. The Smith Commission was appointed. The Commission issued its report on 1 March 2001. The Commission’s mandate was extensive. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the SV, consider that it was appropriate to carry out a comprehensive investigation in order to establish, if possible, a finish line for all claims and theories related to the development of a new main aerodrome for the east and for the Gardermoban. The Committee notes that the main conclusion of the Smith Commission is that there is no basis for claiming that illegitimate methods have been used during the localisation process. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the review Commission has helped to demytolog the many claims related to the Gardermo extension in a good way. The Commission’s examination of the thorough manufacturing of Hobøl and Hurum alternatives suggests that there is no evidence of claims for manipulation or sabotage. However, the Commission shows that there are some issues that have been asked about quality assurance and the mixing of roles in the Hurum measurements. The majority of the population, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, did not want an investigation commission, as they believed that all the information was and is known. As regards the claim that former State Council Lie should be aware that the Swedish Aviation Agency wanted to inform the Ministry of Transport in the form of a letter about various professional assessments related to the relevant aerodrome investigation, the so-called Brevik letter, this has not been confirmed in the Committee's work on the matter. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party and SV and the representative Vidar Kleppe, consider that there is little evidence that knowledge of positions within the Aviation Agency would have a crucial role to play in the conclusion of the College of Government to go further in the investigation with the Gardermoen and shared options. The majority understand that there was a political desire to keep the pace of aerodrome expansion as, among other things, was essential for the proceedings. During the hearing, former State Councillor Lie stated that his entire Council of State period was a planning phase for the main aerodrome of the east, and that it was finally the weather measurements at Hurum that led to the removal of this option, among others. after the conclusion of the Hafnor report. At this point, there were two alternatives left: the Gardermoen or the split solution. The demand for alternative investigations was rejected by a large majority in the Grand Duchy. On this basis, a majority, with the exception of the representatives of the Progress Party and the representative of Vidar Kleppe, believe that the Stortinget ‘does not need to assess whether there is a basis for further action on issues of national law’ against former Minister of Transport Lars Gunnar Lie for breach of the information obligation. The Riksrevision report covers the entire Gardermo project, where a good assessment of the overall project has been given including the Gardermoban. Both the National Audit Office's investigation and the Mydske Committee's evaluation have revealed weaknesses in the evidence on which the Stortinget based its decision to extend the Gardermo project. In this context, reference can be made to the Mudske Committee, which has concluded that most of the factors that have contributed to the fact that the Gardermoban has not become as profitable as provided in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92, should have been identified at the level stage, and therefore better procedures should be developed to ensure good quality of the decision-making basis transmitted to the Stortinget in dealing with major construction projects. The same report shows that several costs have been excluded, both at the time when the Stortinget took a decision on the extension of the Gardermoban and in recent years’ budgetary proposals. It is worth noting, in particular, that the costs of value added tax burden and land acquisition costs have not been included. Furthermore, it was in St. Prp. No 90, for which former State Councillor Kjell Opseth was responsible, clearly indicated that the development of the railway to Gardermoen would be a profitable investment which could be financed in whole or in part through user payments. A lot indicates that the Storting in this area did not get a good enough decision base, because the forecasts were too positive. The Riksrevision believes that the Stortinget should have had clearer information on its decision-making basis. In this context, the Mydske Committee states that the calculations were a record bomb in terms of traffic and revenue growth on the Fly train, investment costs and passenger development. The profitability of the Gardermobanen was significantly underestimated in St.prp. No Ninety-nine. There is reason to strongly criticise the design and construction of the Gardermoban in terms of environmental consistency, technical solutions and economic calculations. In particular, as indicated by the Mudsk Committee, there is a basis for asking questions as to whether policymakers would have been willing to use around 9 billion in 1998 if, at the time of the decision, they had shown that large parts of the investment costs would have to be paid over the State budget and not as provided for in St.prp. No 90 through ticket receipts. Furthermore, there is reason to raise strong criticism when the exceedances run to 55 pst. in relation to the original decision of the Storting. For this reason, the Stortinget should be presented with new calculations and assessments. The Christian People's Party has, throughout the discussion of this matter, wanted to set the finish line for a number of rumors, assertions and partly conspiracy theories. We therefore hope that the work that has now been completed will contribute to this, and that we will be back with learning that such a large construction project is complex and versatile, and that therefore there is a need for thorough project descriptions with better quality than that of this project, of environmental, technical and economic consequences. The Christian People's Party supports the majority's proposal for a decision, and does not consider that there is a need for further refinements in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e498	What must be taken into account in this matter is all the allegations of sabotage, criminal acts, speculation, intrigues and conspiracy that poison the political debate, and that the Storting itself must have a sobering relationship with its control activities. So to former case-rapporteur Holten, who in the newspapers accused Opseth of deliberate misinformation, and for example. expressed that he did not exclude the use of potentially illegal methods. My question to the representative Holten is whether the representative has been striped that it is possible to apologize to Kjell Opseth, and whether he will. I think Opseth is currently available in the immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e507	There is a basis for being very aware of the conspiracies and suggesting that there may be illegal claims being made. It is quite clear that this is a very comprehensive matter. The Christian People's Party has been concerned that all matters should be clarified, and that one has to get a conclusion to the matter. As far as the former State Council Kjell Opseth is concerned, it is clear that through his preparatory work he has a considerable share of responsibility for the matters that I strongly affected in my post, but I cannot say that I have been so strong in my accusation against Opseth. What has been my concern both in relation to Opseth and other former state councils is that the facts contained in these documents or equivalent documents must be such that they are adequate for the decision-making process to be carried out in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e514	First of all, the representative Holten is not going to get the same misunderstanding as the representative Ludvigsen: I think the Smith Commission report is very exciting and interesting reading, and I recommend everyone here who has not read it, to read it. It's good adult training for big business representatives, who should remember what their job is. There was a completely different pressure on the representative Holten a year ago during the hearings in the committee, and I have read the representative Holten's inquiries and will recommend him to read them later to see how he really would drill and dig when everyone so-called responsible was inside, and how understanding he was and how interesting it was when all the rumormakers were inside the committee and spread their unfounded rumors. That was something the representative Holten really appreciated. I wasn't in the committee, so I've had to read it in retrospect. There was also a completely different pressure on the representative Holten in the hall, and when we met in duel on TV. It seemed as if there was going to fall skeleton out of many lockers when the examination was over. Then I'd like to ask the representative Holten: what skeleton has fallen out of the sheep? What kind of new information has the representative Holten received now that he did not have a year ago, when he was unable to draw any conclusions? He stands on the pulpit today and shows, among other things, that when there were no alternative investigations, it was because a large majority of the Storting did not want it. A year ago he joined the comments and said that he has not received a satisfactory answer as to whether ‘it should have been a matter of course to have other equivalent investigated alternatives to compare...with’. Then it was a matter of course that it should have been. Now he admits that it was the Stortinget who did not want it. I checked the setting last year, and I checked in the vote printout how the representative Holten had voted in 1990. There's something wrong with memory. This he should have known last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e525	Clicking on the matter during the debate last year, I believe that nothing was significantly higher than what we have now come up with in the form of a majority comment on this matter. What was my task as case rapporteur during the consultation process was to try to obtain the shades and the facts that were unclear in previous documentation. There is no doubt that the various documents that were available could have a certain contrast. At least in that process – and I have wanted it since – I wanted to put rumors and claims in place. That was the background for us wanting the Smith Commission, which I admit is that SV did not need. We believe that what has now happened through the Smith Commission can just help to give a credible conclusion to a very complicated matter. I'm glad – because that's what we need in these kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e530	An NTB Communication of 2 March 2000 states: ‘The Grand Duchy’s case-rapporteur in the Gardermo case, Odd Holten, suggests that the Stortinget may have been directed against the Gardermo decision and that possible illegal methods were used.The House believes that ‘the decision to extend the Gardermo was taken informally by some and that the Stortinget was directed against Gardermoen by unacceptable and potentially unlawful information and proceedings’. [[KrF]] According to another announcement, Odd Holten said that it was then Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth who was responsible for ‘the ministry provided misleading information’, and according to a third, he said that ‘information was withheld from Stortinget. At least we didn't get any information we needed." I haven't seen any dents of this, and my question is, Is this just bluff, fantasy and villainy from NTB's side, or has the representative Odd Holten given them the basis to write something like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e544	I can't specifically recall what causes me to have touched on the topic of ‘misleading information’, but I would think that this is based on what I was now trying to get into with St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92, namely that, not least that of the basic assessments related to the Gardermoban, clearly was not of such quality that the Storting had sufficient information to reach a good enough decision. I repeat that I would believe that the Storting would have made other assessments if one had known what the costs, the environmental and the technical consequences of this expansion had been, not least for economic reasons, when it was claimed that this was a project that would provide a return of 7-8 pst. It is on this basis that I have provided the information that was referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e554	Let me first get a little involved in the line change after Odd Holten and the question from Inge Myrvoll. Myrvoll asked what skeletons had fallen out of the closet in connection with the work of the commission of inquiry, which had led Holten to a slightly more subdued criticism of the workers' party councils than before. I think the correct answer to that is Lars Gunnar Lie. I note with some interest and curiosity that the criticism of the then Councils of State, Opseth and Sissel Rønbeck, is considerably subdued, and that the further consequences of last year's criticism are not taken into account and support the proposals of the Progress Party. I also note that the Workers' Party, on its side, refrains from following up the view of the Smith Commission that questions could be asked about – to put it nicely – whether Lars Gunnar Lie has complied with his information obligation in the year he was the Council of State. I say nothing more, except to point out this fact, which of course can also be the answer when it comes to some changes in attitudes that have occurred. I believe that one of the most important experiences we have to draw from what has happened, especially in the case of the Gardermoban, is that if we are to have a system in which a limited liability company – whether it is private or state-owned – will face significant investments, such a limited liability company must never be granted a State guarantee for its loans. This means that the entire risk of doing a wasteful job is the responsibility of public, public and public authorities, without the possible appropriations being made subject to a thorough assessment both in the department, the government and the big business. Here it's written off 7 billion kroner on the Gardermoban, which would be business-economically profitable with a real return on invested capital of 8 p.m., including these 7 billion. That is why it is fantastic to hear some representatives in this case, including. Odd Holten, say that the Gardermoban was not as profitable as expected! The truth is that it has not become profitable at all, the truth is that what should be a great deal of profitability has become a waste of dimensions! And then you talk like it still has something to do with profitability! It's very strange that if you can get a $7 billion bill – that's a lot of strange things to get to be profitable! And that's what this ignores. The 7 billion remained with this system, this way of doing it, never weighed up against building any more tunnels, bridges, roads or towards, for example. maintenance of schools. That's why I say you never have to have government-guaranteed loans again. The Progress Party proposed that if it was such that it would be economically profitable for the company, then it should be left to private construction and operation of the Gardermoban, because then the lenders would automatically assess the risk of whether this was a profitable project or a loss project. When the government guarantees the loans, no one does that job. It's one of the main lessons. What has also been important both for the Smith Commission and in many contexts here in Stortingen – in the Control Committee – is the mix of policies and subjects. And here the Smith Commission, I think, has revealed how hopeless it is when you don't have clear dividing lines between directorate and department. When it is as it is revealed, that the Directorate of Aviation had somehow received a request to remain calm in view of the professional work they were supposed to do, it has led, I think, to dramatic things. We've got a situation where everything that has to do with Hurum's situation – weather and other things – was judged by so-called professional authorities and the ministry to be such that you shouldn't build the airport there, while when it was Gardermoen, you did the wrong thing. A question was asked by the Ministry not to get any alarm clocks going. And it has also proved that there was a lack of knowledge in the Stortinget about weather. Only the two conditions are enough to ask yourself a few questions: is there someone behind and pulling some strings, when professional reviews are presented to the Stortinget positive for one place and negative for the other, and both are insecure, and that's professionally uncertain? That is why I think it is very important that the Directorates be more and more distinguished from the Directorates to a much greater degree of independence and given legislation that strengthens the duty of the Technical Directorates not to ever be able to base political judgements on their views. Here there is a need for a clean-up, and the Smith Commission report, which I agree with Myrvoll in is very good adult education, should be studied by many. So to our suggestions. It is quite right, as the representative Inger Lise Husøy said, that there have been some proposals – there have not been many – to set up a protocol committee on the part of the Progress Party. It's because we've been thinking for a long time -- I recognize that others have a different opinion, and different opinions politically are okay -- that it's developing a social system where people in the private sector who make serious mistakes that involve significant costs get both fines and prison sentences, while in the public sector when officials or government councils make gross mistakes, fail to do a good job and fail to provide good enough quality assurance of what they provide for the Storting, nothing ever happens. For us in the Progress Party, this is a problem. It can't be like that, for example. the managing director of the company that owned the ‘Sleipner’ – a tragic accident – must leave its post and be judged whether there should be corporate penalties and fines, while in the event of an unusually delete work which may have been used for one purpose for 7 billion DKK, but which would have been used for other purposes if all the facts had been on the table, it should not be assessed whether there has been any unlawful action by the appropriate authority, namely by a protocol committee appointed by the electoral committee. That's a problem for us. I understand that the other parties do not see this issue of discrimination between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker, which I would like to argue that the present system involves. That's one of the reasons we've taken this up several times. I could mention another example, which is a little bit of a daily matter, maybe. According to today's news, one of the employees of a blasting company has – of course, illegal and irregular – kept dynamite in their private car, which has been discovered. At that time, we immediately talked about the corporate penalty against the company in addition to the company. In the context of NOK 7 billion spent without anyone having assessed it, I think it shows that there is a need for far more seriousness in the difference in attitude towards King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker than the majority in his settlement of the case. Let me also mention that some time ago I said: serious errors and deficiencies that were made by both government and government officials. So, I'm taking office. In fact, I think we need to look at the human resources systems in public too. I think it might be appropriate to introduce some rules that those who are wrong with a certain percentage of cost assessment will automatically end up in their job when it is revealed. When an official — whether in the outside or in the interior — goes to the Council of State with some estimate of costs, personal effort must have been made to ensure that this is the right thing, and risks the job if it cracks by a certain percentage. I also said this when it came to Fatima, where you used a billion, which you probably wouldn't have used had the Storting told you about it. So now it's $7 billion that's been used, without any political assessment. With regard to all the other things in the present case, I would like to refer to the comments in the settings, and I would be allowed to address the suggestions contained in the settings to appoint the protocol committee to assess whether an appeal is to be made to the former state councils Kjell Opseth, Sissel Rønbeck and Lars Gunnar Lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e586	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e590	As you know, the centre party is not represented in the control and constituencies committee, and since the representative of the centre party who normally covers the committee does not have the opportunity to take part in the debate, I shall briefly state, on behalf of the centre party, that the centre party supports the main conclusions drawn by the majority and that today it is possible to put a final line on a debate which has been held on the political agenda in approx. 20 years. This also applies to the issue of possible national court action. The central party shares the majority’s view that there is no need to assess whether there is a basis for further consideration of this issue. With regard to the facts of the matter, I ask for a certain understanding that I do not find it natural to go something special – let's say – high on the agenda in this debate. As politically responsible for the big message that suggested that the bonding of Hobøl should be lifted, and as a member of the Syse government, who was involved in the preparations for the cause of the Great Thing is dealing with today, I find it not natural to have any strong involvement in today's debate. However, let me support those who have stated in the debate that the nominee investigation commission – either one agreed or disagreed with the establishment – has helped to put the final line on this difficult issue. Let me also add that I share the assessments SV expresses on page 22 of the Innst. S. No 257, namely that the airport decision itself was about political decisions taken on the basis of perfectly legitimate principles and methods. The important Aerodrome Decision, which is the basis for today's debate, was, in the opinion of the Centre Party, taken after a hard and long-standing political struggle, and there can be no talk of so-called illegitimate methods, as one might have got the impression from parts of the debate that have gone before today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e604	There was more temperature last winter and spring, through extensive consultations, media essays and a big crowd to review, with a case rapporteur who would turn all the stones – all the stones – no matter how many had turned them before. The minority in the Committee — and the majority in the European Parliament — could not answer any questions. They wanted the great Opseth hunt. On June 5, last year, I had a chronicle in the World Gang under the title ‘Silver Hands Can Cake...’. Today – June 5 one year later – I would like to have the same chronicle pressed again with a small supplement in the title: It is still in the henyard. Actually, I am tempted to read the chronicle from the pulpit, but it is a violation of the regulations, because we have limitations in relation to not exaggerating citations. So it's got to be. I find nothing in the chronicle that I feel should be deleted. SV went against a review last year. Based on the issues raised by the investigators, it was right to oppose – and that would still be right. The review has not provided us with significant information we did not include last year. The answers to the questions that were asked could then be given. The answers SV gave last year, we can repeat this year. Last year we were critical of the way the Gardermobane project was carried out, the lack of follow-up of traffic forecasts, etc. We can repeat that this year, without looking into it. But I want to add: the review has had positive effects. Firstly, a number of rumors, allegations and conspiracy theories have been put to death — hopefully for good. Since they had passed even in this room, it's okay to have them killed. Secondly, the Smith Commission contributes to the recovery of memory — not least in relation to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Now big business representatives should be doing it without a checkup. Most in the control committee have long seagoing times and were involved in the decisions throughout the 1990s. However, if the memory fails, there is access to settings, reports from debates and even voting printouts, so that it is possible to check your own vote — without any review. However, the Commission’s report has been a good adult education, if the representatives take the time to read it. Yes, perhaps it can also contribute to the further training of wholesalers, because the report has interesting discussions about overall decisions in relation to drowning in detail. Details that are not decisive for the decisions taken, but which, in the light of the post-war uncertainty, may spread, may become a covert of away explanations for lots and individual representatives. The Commission says this very well: ‘It also makes such a — unrealistic — view of the importance of disclosing any detail to the Storting, it is easy for the government to honour the disclosure obligation by humming the Storting down in detail.’ I think it's very striking. I remember that when we treated Gardermo-saka, I had a stack of investigations and analyses on at least 70-80 cm lying on the floor. Most of them were never read. But it's clear that the government could say we got it. What we need is not all the information – because we can't get along – but a sample. We're going to make general decisions. In this respect, the Commission’s conclusion on the so-called missing weather report is at the heart of the following: ‘The impression that it would have been very important for Stortinget to know this report that several large-scale representatives contributed to the creation lacks reasonable coverage. Thus, they have contributed to the maintenance of the existing mistrust.» I think it's a good and hard criticism of representatives in this Chamber from the Smith Commission. It was the bulk of the population that scrambled Hurum. We in SV belonged to that majority. The majority of the population decided not to explore more alternatives than the Gardermoen, in relation to the split solution. SV belonged to the majority. We knew at the time that it restricted the choices. Everyone who belonged to the majority knew that the fewer alternatives an investigator takes, the less one has to choose from. It's pretty simple logic for me. Not least should the Right should know that several times went into the kneeling. It is possible that they do not like it so well in retrospect, but there is nothing to examine. Pressing the Right in the kneeling is not prohibited and kneeling is not prohibited. And we who were in this Chamber remember the time when Mr Talleraa's parliamentary leader came to the pulpit and said that now those who know know how to use it. That the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which fought for a shared solution, later found out that it was not an optimal solution, is nothing to examine either. After all, there is criticism of his own judgment in the light of his postwar clock. At all, in the case of this 13 indent framework, which was in a way unanswered by a minority in the control committee last year, a black person was able to do so last year. There are critical aspects of this process, but they we knew about last year after the Riksrevision, the Mudske-School, the Tune-School, etc. I am a little surprised when the case rapporteur now, the representative Ludvigsen, says that it was important to set up an unhealthy selection to investigate. I assume that the representative Ludvigsen also considers the Riksrevision, the Mudsk Committee and the Tune Committee to be unreserved samples, i.e. that there were no case selections that were trendy, and that therefore there was only a small delay. I believe that both the Riksrevision, the Musketeer and the Tune Committee have done their job, and that is what we decided last year. Yes, we even knew about the letter that was written and never sent from the Swedish Aviation Agency. It was drilled in the hearings of the Control Committee. I will agree that former Minister of Transport Lars Gunnar Lie's explanation of why the anticonceptions of the Swedish Aviation Agency that there had been a desire for more alternatives, were not communicated internally in his own government and to the Stortinget, are extremely thin. It would have been possible to communicate them and yet recommend not to explore any more alternatives based on a time justification. That's the most serious relationship we're left with. But I haven't suspected Lars Gunnar Lie of deliberately keeping away information to get a result that he really didn't want. In this way, one stone below which we knew the contents fell on the feet of a Minister of Transport, Lars Gunnar Lie. That is why today the Progress Party must bring Lars Gunnar Lie, and not just Kjell Opseth and Sissel Rønbeck, to consider whether to sue for a breach of the Liability Act. They couldn't get away with it. But apart from Lie's lack of information at that particular point, they boil soup on a nail, and there'll be a thin soup of it to consider violation of the Liability Act. We're getting to believe that officials and political leadership in the department, management at the main aerodrome and in the NSB can now use the time to look ahead, to solve future tasks and not spend more time and resources digging in the past. There have been some day's work, if not annual work, to dig in paper piles and remember what has been said at meetings, in conversations, on the telephone and during dancing on the shelf. I noticed that the representative Holten was not able today to recall what led up to the statements that were in NTB a year ago, but the expectations in this room for everyone else to remember what was said in all sorts of contexts ten years ago have been very large. When the temperature was higher last year than it is now, it comes not only from the fact that there have not been any particularly new answers, and that the answers that were last year are valid this year. Maybe the big crowd went wild in details last year and not the power to lift their eyes. Perhaps the majority of the population are happy to be reminded of their own decisions and that a government's obligation is to follow up decisions. Therefore, I would like to thank the Smith Commission for digging up rumors and conspiracy theories that lived a life sail in this room, a thank you to the Smith Commission for reminding the Storting of their own decision, a thank you to the Smith Commission for reminding the Storting that it is possible to go wild in detail and forget overall perspectives, and a thank you to the Smith Commission for a readable and interesting report, which is recommended for those who have not read it. And then we get to hope that this was the last round -- not because you're necessarily satisfied with the decisions that were made, but out of respect for the majority that made those decisions, and that the government's duty is to follow up the decisions. And then we have some critical comments, but not of such a nature that I see some reason to ask questions as to whether there is a basis for distrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e655	Today it is about three years since the Control and Constitutional Committee received the Riksrevision report on the development of the new main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. Four months later, the Committee decided to postpone the examination of this document pending the report of the so-called Mudsk Committee, which provided an evaluation of the planning and implementation of the Gardermo project. The Court of Auditors’ comments on this subject were received by the Committee on 20 October 1999. Open consultations were then held over five full days in January and February 2000, involving 38 persons, including four former Ministers for Transport. On 4 April of that year, the Stortinget decided to set up a one-year investigation commission to carry out a broad review of the investigation, planning, design and development of the new main aerodrome for the east and the Gardermoban. So now the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has its final position. And I have to say that I am pleased that a unanimous committee states that there is no basis to claim that it was used illegitimate methods to locate the main airport of Gardermoen, and likewise that such a broad majority believes that it can now be set the finish line for the Gardermozak here in Stortinget. That the Progress Party Hagen and the representative Kleppe will not conclude in this way, but ask for the appointment of a protocol committee to ask for an assessment of appeals against three former state councils, will fortunately be rejected by a large majority of the Stortinget. That's all it is to say about that matter. I am pleased that the Smith Commission's comprehensive report and the Committee's setting up have also led to the death of the many and often trending attacks on those who were at the heart of the planning of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. The main conclusion of the Smith Commission, after the Stortinget decided in the spring of 1990 that it would be planned only for the purpose of the Gardermoen as a new main aerodrome, is that no example has been found of the Stortinge’s decision based substantially on misleading or incomplete information. I am also pleased that such a broad majority in the Committee agrees with the Smith Commission when it says the following: ‘All the main features of the administrative process towards the Landfill Decision on airport at Gardermoen have been governed by the leadership and decisions of the Stortinget at all times. A typical example is the fate of the Hobøl option in the final phase: when Hobøl was not investigated at the same level of detail as Gardermoen, it was simply because the bulk of the population would not have such an investigation." It can't be said more clearly. There is also reason to note the sharp criticism of the Smith Commission has traveled to parts of the Norwegian media in the Gardermo case. This criticism is justified. Strongly trendy journalism has been revealed, the Commission determines. Fortunately, this criticism does not affect Norwegian media as a whole and the function that the media must have as a forum for societal criticism and debate. But as I said, as the Commission points out, the air space axis provides striking examples of how parts of the mass media can help create distrust even if there is no coverage for this. This is something to think about also for us as elected representatives. The Smith Commission can teach us lessons for future political debates. The report shows that we should be extremely careful to build accusations against individuals on assumptions, rumors and speculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e677	There is at least one thing that is very clear in this discussion and the debate, and it is that those who make up the majority do not actually agree as they express, as they have begun to discuss in the Chamber today. It shows that there's still nuances here. But what I think is the most important thing about this whole case is the two settings we now have for treatment. If we look at the broad review and investigation of the planning, design and development of a new main aerodrome, and if one asks the principal questions that are important, among other things. If planning was good enough, the majority concludes, after various investigations and investigations, that it could be improved. The same with regard to the design. It could have been done better. We always say that we should learn from the projects we're in, and hope that the next time we do it better. With regard to what has been achieved through the various treatments that we have had in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it is obvious that there has been some misappropriation. There is a lack of quality assurance, and there is a mixture of roles. That's what those who make up the majority say, here's the critical relationship. So to the discussion and the debate on whether to set a finish line. Yes, we all want a finish line, but before we put a finish line, we need to know who has been responsible for the different decisions, and what basis they have taken. That's why it's interesting to hear the representative Myrvoll's review of the history of this big, important matter. But it is clear that when a decision is to be taken, one must also be careful that it is followed up. There's a disagreement between the majority and the minority in this room. It is clear that with the missteps that have been made, there is a basis for – as I do in the control committee in conjunction with the representative Carl I. Hagen of the Progress Party – to ask the election committee members to give an order to appoint a protocol committee to look at these matters further. There's no drama in this. We have not concluded that we will put these three relevant state councils to national law, which have been discussed today. But we think that for everyone who has been involved in this matter, it must be okay to get a clarification. There's still a lot hanging in the air, and although there's a majority in this room who want to put the discussion and debate to death, I also think there are things that can come out in the future, that haven't been revealed yet. It is clear that when one looks at the government, when one looks at the various state councils, politicians who have been actors in these decisions, one has to ask the question: what is it really going to do to make them responsible for their actions, when one looks at what others in this society have to review when they have made a loss? So the conclusion of all the reviews and reviews we've had is that there's almost no one who's taken responsibility, either in terms of exceedances, lack of quality assurance or mixing roles. Most of the actors sit where they have been sitting all along, or they've been relocated and got other good jobs, while the bill goes to the taxpayers. If one just takes that piece, which was also the representative Husøy of the Workers' Party, namely, that it was critical of what happened to Rome's sport, it was critical of people in Hellerud what had happened, then the Workers' Party has not made any conclusions in addition to the fact that it was critical that it was gross and sad, and neither does it have the majority in this room. They will not hold people responsible for what they are doing. I find that regrettable, and I think it is bad for the whole political system in Norway that there are some, and especially the state itself, who can scald and choose and do just as they want without having consequences for those who have done these things. That's why I'm on safe and good reason when I support the attitude of the minority today, and I expect that even if the majority vote this way down, it at least shows that there are some representatives in this room who are busy getting all the cards on the table and not doing tyre operations to prevent everything from coming up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e692	The decision-making process behind the selection of the Gardermoen as the main aerodrome has been long, complex and winding. There has also been a long time, a whole three years, since the committee received the National Audit Office’s investigation into the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. Hopefully, we can today, in the context of the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, open consultations and the Smith Commission's report, set the final point for this comprehensive case, which has had some unfortunate consequences, both environmentally and economically. The decision of the Storting to expand the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban was based on the fact that the projects would be economically viable and that they would not represent a real cost to the State. There is broad agreement that the main aerodrome development itself has been satisfactorily implemented, in particular in relation to the size and complexity of the project. There were some entry problems after the opening in October 1998. It appeared that the de-icing system was under-dimensioned and that problems arose in relation to chemical use that posed a groundwater contamination hazard. The weaknesses are mainly linked to the Gardermoban. Several cost elements, such as land acquisition costs, VAT and insurance premiums, were not included in the calculation. Time pressure and lack of experience in the construction of high-speed rails should provide a high level of uncertainty in the project. However, the NSB’s main report gives the impression that the project’s uncertainty is low and that the income side has been carefully assessed. First in St. prp. No 1 for 1997-1998 there are uncertainties related to the revenue of the flight. In retrospect, the Ministry has recognised that the report of uncertainty could be given greater space. Although much work was done in the transport analysis for the accommodation service, several objections may be raised against it. The willingness to pay and the competitive situation were not adequately analysed. That the concession for bus operation to Gardermoen was not granted before October 1998 is no excuse for not analysing the alternative bus and trains on parallel routes, in the opinion of the Swedish Mydske Committee. Negligation of this option has clearly led to overestimation of the market position of the train alternative and to over-optimistic estimation of the business profitability. The verification team pointed to this problem already in the spring of 1992. But in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-1992 the work of the verification team is not mentioned nor its conclusions. The transport analysis did not assess the distribution among the different train options either. The Musketeer concludes that most of the circumstances that have contributed to the fact that the Gardermoban has not been as profitable as foreseen should have been revealed at the level stage. If the economic profitability of the enterprise had been as described, this would have been one of the few railway projects in history that could return investments in both rolling stock and road through ticket revenue. In the opinion of the Mudske Committee, there should have been a call to the investigators and the quality assurance team when such a conclusion was reached. The Musketeer nevertheless gives the expansion of the Gardermobane essentially positive character. Exceptions are Rome's sport and the problems in the east. Both the design and implementation of the work are critical in terms of both technical, environmental and economic conditions. The experience gained from the work on the sport of Rome suggests that more attention should be paid to the natural environment. It took too much time before the administration of the NSB Gardermobanen reacted with measures against the sentence injuries that occurred in Hellerud. The Mudske Committee stresses that the lack of business profitability is not primarily due to the exceedances due to the Rome sport. Nothing indicates that the Gardermoban would achieve profitability even without the exceedances associated with the sport of Rome. The investigations and investigations on this matter have been extensive and time- and cost-intensive. You can ask if everything has been necessary. I think it's got it. There have been serious allegations, accusations and speculations. These have been important for clarity.The review report of the Commission largely clears the many issues that led to the appointment of the Commission, and the majority of the Committee believes that it is appropriate to set the final line for the Gardermo case in the Stortinget with the current settings. The Committee agrees with the criticism raised by both the Riksrevision and the Mudske Committee, but despite the fact that the decision-making basis was at some point deficient and the profitability forecasts were too optimistic, the number of committees does not need to move forward on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e713	This debate must help us to learn from the experiences that the projects on the main airport at Gardermoen and the Gardermobanen have given us. I'm going to limit myself here to the business-economic impact with emphasis on the results for the Gardermoban, based on the Riksrevision studies. The Transport Committee and the Stortinget decided to consider St.prp. No 90 for 1991-1992 that the financing of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban would not represent a real cost to the State. Today we know the result. It is remarkable when the Mudske-committee stresses that the lack of commercial profitability of the Gardermoban is not primarily due to the exceedances due to the Rome sport, but points out that there is nothing to suggest that the Gardermoban will be able to achieve profitability even without the exceedances caused by the Rome sport. It tells us that the project has gone wrong. Instead of becoming a locomotive in the further development of Norwegian railway operations, the Gardermobanen is such a major obstacle to NSB BA that NSB BA wants others to take over the Gardermoban. It must be clear to anyone responsible for this outcome that this will not allow large-scale projects to be prepared, planned and implemented in the future. The economic consequences of such failures are unacceptable, and put a brake on the development of hard-pressed measures in our infrastructure – rail, roads, ports and fairways, not to say in other sectors. The National Auditor's report states that it is in St.prp. No 90 was not given a comprehensive picture of the viability of the Gardermoban and that the uncertainty was much more fully addressed for the main aerodrome. It must be wondered why the Ministry of Transport did not carry out the uncertainty analyses for the Gardermoban at the same quality level as for the main aerodrome. I assume that the department should have equivalent analytical quality requirements for the two projects. In the department's overall responsibility, it was a task to ensure that these equivalent requirements were met. ambiguity about objectives and assumptions can lead to project results that are harmful to the economy as well as to the environment. Around the country we sit with road, tunnel and bridge projects whose implementation has led to dramatic economic results. The lessons learned from this should lead to better planning and implementation of a number of transport projects, including the Gardermoban. Time pressure is used as an argument for great uncertainty. The thing is that lack of preparation has contributed to great delays and growth in costs beyond all performances. Norwegian entrepreneurship accounts for many fine results in the implementation of large and complex projects, as we have seen in particular in the offshore and energy sectors. What characterises these projects with success are thorough and nitite preparations. In these, the market surveys are essentially No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is strange that market experience from other aerodromes, which shows that market shares of the accommodation service were assessed unrealistically, has not been considered more serious. I would like to remind you that the Right-wing Minister for Transport asked more questions about this in the Questionnaire. He did not choose to correct the estimates on the market shares of the flight despite serious objections from the verification team to the work and results of the transport analysis model. We must note that there is a need for better preparation, planning and implementation, with the experience we have from the two projects we are dealing with today, as well as a number of road projects. Considering regional interests and considerations and environmentally friendly accommodation services, this should not take into account the economic assumptions that projects should not lead to real costs for the country. Such a starting point obscures the objective and makes the criteria for the goals you set unclear. It's unfortunate. The case of the Gardermoban indicates in full that a loose grip on such projects easily leads to results far from meeting expectations. The community loses, and each one of us loses. The grip on the main airfield was good. This is due to professional and targeted management. It is a strong desire on behalf of all those who depend on good infrastructure to continue this culture. Everyone's gonna be worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e734	The matter of a new airport in Norway has been under discussion for a long time – for over 20 years. The discussion has engaged people throughout our country, and it has engaged the Stortinget. I've been so lucky that I've been involved in several of the debates before. These reports have been innumerable, have been written in our books and have been examined and examined, we have made several allegations of cheating and fantasy, and various political motives have also been included in the debate. Now it's good that there's a broad plural to set the finish line for Gardermo-saka in Stortinget today. The Labour Party was initially dissatisfied with the fact that we were going to put down an investigation commission, when we meant the Riksrevision, the Mudske-choice and some of the rings we've had, and also some material, had given us a good basis to end the Gardermo-saka. I can refer to the article and the argument that Inge Myrvoll had earlier today. We know that this airportaka is a pilot project, and in Norway we've now got an airport with international, high standards, we've got an airport with security requirements and technically good solutions. We know that this will of course also cost a lot of money, and I think the Storting has been teaching us about the whole time that there would be higher costs than what we previously claimed. It is not uncommon in such large construction cases that the cost framework cracks, nor is it unusual that in some areas things could be done differently, because things happen all the time during a construction period. In all the years I've been a user of the airport, it's been very hot to build an airport at Gardermoen. Majority representatives and state councils have received many comments that have not always been so serious. We have to deal with this, but I'm glad today that the Smith Commission points out that there are strikingly few of the rumors and debts that have for years poisoned the debate on the main airfield, which should be under closer scrutiny. The most serious claims have been made against the Workers' Party, both from the media and from other depositors. They think I'm groundless. That's the majority in the committee. The airport has been a hot topic in Norwegian newspapers. I too have been shocked by the strong rage that has been against former government councillor Kjell Opseth. Today, when we are discussing this matter in Stortinget, and we see how many journalists are sitting here and listening to, it's as if the air has gone out of a balloon, and they're not interested in righting the debate that's here today. I'm sorry about that. Most of it has been said in this case, and I think we should be proud of the great airport we've been given. The airport at Gardermoen must be the most transparent and environmentally friendly airport we have in all of Europe. It's a complicated project, and it costs more than we had decided, but now we're going to put the discussion behind us and join the multiples in the committee. Finally, the flight train is what has become the most costly due to different technical, environmental and other things that have come into the image. The flight is also a good offer for us as users. It's a modern train, it's going fast, and it's very reasonable with respect to price. My question to those who criticize the flight is: What alternative should we have as users – taxis in shuttle traffic, which are expensive and also unfortunate in terms of the environment, or buses, where we use almost an hour to get into Oslo? I will encourage the Storting to join the Committee's plurality and attach the matter to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e757	After following the debate here today and, to some extent, also in the past, by the various committees and commissions, I must be allowed a little heartache that one would sometimes wish that this assembly – and in particular some representatives in this assembly – was equally concerned about the future and what will happen, as they are concerned about the past and what has happened many years ago in time. I am pleased that a large majority, except for the Progress Party with several, now finally set the finish line for the expansion of the new main aerodrome. And that's what I have to add: it's really time, almost nine years after the final decision on the extension of the Gardermo was made, and almost three years after the new main aerodrome was put into service. Last year I belonged to those who thought it was completely unnecessary to appoint the Smith Commission. As far as I am concerned, I think it is true today, but I must admit that when the Commission presented its report, and I was pleased to read the report, and in particular Chapter 11, I thought it might as well be that the Stortinge adopted it last year, and set up the Smith Commission. This was really good reading. I am not sure that last year's busiest followers of the Commission are equally happy with what is being read in the report. I think I hear a slightly different volume on, among other things. The representative Odd Holten's contributions today in relation to what we witnessed in the debate last year in Stortinget. Mr Ludvigsen asked questions to the Workers' Party's spokeswoman today about the Workers' Party's opinion that it was important and correct that the Smith Commission was appointed. I won't go into it, but at least I have to say that it was good to read the contents of the report from the Smith Commission. The National Audit Service pays relatively high attention to the business profitability of the Gardermobanen in its reports. I want to, a long time after St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 was presented, to address the recommendations and conclusions of the gross domestic product. In 1992 the government did not recommend rail and trains for business reasons. No, it even stands in St.prp. No 90 that a bus-based accommodation system was more economically profitable but that trains and railways were selected for socio-economic and political reasons. The emphasis is placed on the importance of regional development and environmental conditions in the planning process. And I assume that that was also what Stortinget did when one decided that the accommodation system should be the railway. In retrospect, we might admit that the concept of ‘business-economic profitability’ should not have been mixed up, as both government and growth concluded that it was the socio-economic profitability that was crucial. The main airline ticket is one of the most politically active post-war issues in Norway, perhaps the most frequent. Everything in the last few years, in fact for decades, has been made a policy in the discussion around the main airfield. Today, we are putting an end to 40 years of intense political debate in the airfield. The Gardermoen is constantly forming one of the most punctual airports in Europe. Gardermoen is one of the world's airports with the highest collective share, probably the one with the highest – compared to 60 pst., distributed with about 40 pst. on trains and 20 pst. on a bus. This is the reason to be proud of. We've got an airport with a housing system that works very well. I am pleased, as I said earlier, that the vast majority of the Grand Duchy today is finally putting a finish line in the airfield. And finally, in these times of exams and at the end of the semester both here in the house and in the schoolwork, it can be tempting to give grades. At least I'll give M+ for the expansion of the airport and M for the expansion of the Gardermoban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e776	When one hears the representative Myrlis character M for the expansion of the Gardermoban, one must well conclude that it is good that he is not a teacher in the school, because with that characterization one had to note that the qualifications of the teacher are too low. Then the representative of Kaland has concluded that the airfield has been a pilot case. It must then be said that there has been a lot of high-speed flight without ground contact, especially when it was for the railway, that it was now time to go in for a landing, and that there was almost a crash landing, because the debate today has shown a two-way split when the Stortinget is going to ‘finalise’ the case. It is such that the majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Center Party, do not see the need to investigate or prepare a possible national legal case. You know enough to set the finish line. The Smith Commission and the National Audit Office report should now be used as a basis for the decision we have recommended, namely to attach the matter to the minutes. The Progress Party and the representative, Kleppe, will, on their behalf, take the first step towards national law by setting up a Protocol Committee and, where appropriate, what would then have to be followed. I think it's important, when we close the debate, to hold on to the fact that everyone stands together, absolutely everyone, about clear criticism of parts of the process, as mentioned by the Riksrevision, by the Smith Commission, by the Tune Committee and the Mudske Committee. A lot has been wrong, especially in the case of the Gardermoban. There should have been more information for the Storting, there was a cost excess that could not be defended, and alternative use of funds in the transport sector would have been desirable. There is a basis for strong parliamentary criticism, but in the majority's view it is not serious enough to take steps towards a national court case. Let me also stress that the Committee has spent a long time on this matter from the Riksrevision document 3:10 for 1997-98 was presented on 4 June 1998. I think it has been useful and important that we have spent the time that the committee found necessary. It has also made all those who have wanted it aware of their views for the Committee and for the Storting. Many have provided useful information to the Committee, and there is an overview of all those who have contributed to it in the form of documents and enquiries. Let me also congratulate the Riksrevision that they – and that is not surprising, because it is more or less a matter of course – have done a thorough and qualitative good job in a highly complex technical, economic and political matter. The Smith Commission, for its part, has carried out a useful review of the case, in particular relating to information obligations and the Liability Act, which was not part of what the Riksaudition has investigated. But now it's time to set the finish line. There will be a broad red line in the Character Book, and the Minister for Transport will be told at home that homework needs to be improved by the next hour, if he cannot risk being expelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e791	I'm not going to make the characterization, as the representatives Myrli and Ludvigsen did, but I want to warn you that you are now sending the report book back to today's Minister of Transport that he needs to do a better job. The Ministers for Transport we've been talking about now have resigned as Ministers for Transport a long time ago, so it's a little late to send the message book back to them. I tried to interpret the last posts of the representative Ludvigsen based on what he said earlier. Earlier today, the representative Ludvigsen said that it was necessary to set up an unhindered investigation commission, and I tried to bring it up later in the debate. I choose to interpret him so that he thus does not believe that the Riksrevision, the Mudske-committee and the Tune-committee are not unhindered in their assessments, and that there is no criticism of them. I was surprised that you would have an unhindered investigation committee that would take up all the issues of the case and turn all the stones that had partially turned back many times before. One question that none of the people who have been very interested in research have answered today is: What new facts have emerged in the last review that you didn't know about last year? Then you had a long list – 13 indents in the setting – with questions you felt you had too bad answers. I can't see that on any of the points there have been new answers this year. The only change is an intensified criticism by former Minister of Transport Lars Gunnar Lie. We knew about the matter, but it's been exacerbated. That's what became a bit pathetic here today, because it might not be natural for those who wanted to investigate, to sharpen the criticism in that direction – it wasn't where you expected something to fall out of the closet. If any of the people involved in the investigation can explain what new facts have come up on the table that have not been presented by the Riksrevision and many samples, it would have been exciting to hear, as we now put the finishing line and sum up. What made it impossible to draw one conclusion last year, but now you can draw all the conclusions, now that the Smith Commission has told you that it does not want to turn on most of the stones, because they have turned others well before?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e801	The President will propose that the speakers who will be given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e804	Actually, I have said what I felt was necessary to say, but as the representative Myrvoll again takes up this with the investigation commission and indifference in relation to other investigations, it is to say that neither I nor anyone else in the room felt the need to take a reply after the first post to Myrvoll. It tells a lot. Actually, I did not need to take the word now either, but I do not want anyone to perceive it there until I have stated that the Riksrevision or other selections should not be unhindered. I stress that the investigation commission is perceived as an unhindered commission, composed in such a way that everyone has confidence in the final result that has come. I think that's important to emphasize. But contrary to what is the case with the representative Myrvoll, my statements are related to what I say about, and cannot be deduced to be characteristic of other organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e809	In response to the representative Myrvoll I have to say that for my part I could conclude last year when we dealt with this matter, it was no problem. But the problem and the challenge was the majority in the committee, who wanted the Smith Commission to be set up to look at this. We thought it was a step in the right direction, and we supported it in the setting. I believe that the misconceptions that have been made regarding quality assurance, mixing roles, the terrible environmental damage that we have seen at Hellerud and in the sports of Rome, air trains and all of this, provide the basis for asking Odelstingen to set up a protocol committee – that is the basis. I haven't changed my vision. I believe the content of the matter is so serious that if we in such a large case as this should not consider a protocol committee, I never think the Storting will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e814	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See page 3448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e828	Only briefly: the National Audit Office can refer to extensive activities and the Committee is well pleased with the activities of the National Audit Office. And I want to add for myself that we have a maximum up-to-date national audit that knows its responsibilities and is up to its time. It communicates in principle through communications about the activity and through settings to the matters it has for its consideration. The Committee has previously recognised that the Storting may not be the best place to provide clear feedback. The Committee has opinions on the activities of the National Audit Office, and reports on things it wants differently. The Committee also does so in this setting, including: it wishes to see more insight into the strategic plans and the audit grounds, if this is not detrimental to its activities. Proposals for a new law and instructions have been submitted to the National Audit Office. It would have been exciting and interesting to work on it, but in time it has to be in the new big business. The Committee has had this proposal in mind when it has been somewhat reluctant this year to address the details of its activities, such as: State of the national audit as a hearing body. I refer you to the unanimous attitude of the committee. Speaking of trust in the Riksrevision, which was the subject of the previous debate, I have never recorded that someone has believed that the Riksrevision is not an unwarranted control body, on the contrary. It is often boasted by the National Audit Office of the Control Committee. The previous case may have to be seen in a completely different light than whether the Riksrevision is an unhidden organ or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e843	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e857	This case raises at least two important issues. Firstly, the expansion of the fields of Asgard, Visund and Jotun led to record cost gaps. The cost increased by approx. 19 billion from the PUD estimate to completion. This is symptomatic of the experience that is the main impression of the North Sea. In fact, out of a total of 32 field development projects during the 1990s, 30 were more expensive than PUD. In other words, it is a central question to ask why and how the cost calculations are then to those degrees out of control. And then: why have neither the oil companies nor the authorities been more critical and analysed the risks more thoroughly for any financial deviation? The other aspect that can be kept up is who is responsible for the quality assurance of PUD estimates to the extent that there are abnormal cost exceedances in the amounts of 10, 20, 30 and 40 pst., which was actually the case for most of the expansions in the 1990s. Is it the Ministry of Oil and Energy that is to be held responsible for this, or is it ‘fixing bakers for smiths’? In this case, the Control and Constitutional Committee has been most concerned with this last aspect and to a lesser extent with the size of the exceedances. The studies carried out by the National Audit Office show that there have been major weaknesses not only in the plans but also in the supporting documentation for both Åsgard, Visund and Jotun. The Ministry of Oil and Energy points out that the authorities and the builders have different roles, and that if one suggests responsibility where it is not really – understood in the department – the decision-making processes and the possibilities for improvement are, at the same time, fooled. The Ministry considers that oil companies and engineering companies have the competence to assess the costs during planning, design and development. The national audit concludes that studies show that the real potential of authorities to influence development projects lies primarily in the planning phase and when the PUD is to be approved. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the Ministry has a responsibility to ensure that all the essential aspects of the development projects are adequately addressed and that key estimates of costs are reasonable and realistic. The Committee agrees. Petroleum Act and St.meld. No 2 for 1992–93 no doubt obliges the authorities to demand the uncertainty of estimates of cost estimates. However, experience shows, as I mentioned, that 30 out of 32 extensions in the 1990s led to cost cuts. It is hardly just low cost control that has led to this, but rather that technology development in the offshore oil industry is in many ways a consequence of ‘the path being created while walking’. In other words, complex challenges under extreme climatic, geographical and geological conditions, and not least depth conditions, require new solutions that need to be tailored there and there. This is how the entire fantastic Norwegian offshore industry has developed. In this way, the objectives of NORSOK to reduce the time and cost use of projects by 40-50 pst. be an important and necessary incentive for innovation, technology development and cost reduction. But the experience is that when the estimates in the PUD in the Åsgard project have cost cut based on experience figures from NORSOK, this was actually a little realistic. On the other hand, Statoil states that although the investment in Åsgard was DKK 13 billion higher than assumed, capacity costs are reduced by 50 pst. compared to what technology would have cost from the beginning of the 1990s. The National Audit Service criticises the Ministry of Oil and Energy for the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that all the essential aspects of the development of Åsgard, Visund and Jotun were not sufficiently well established and that the key assumptions for the cost calculation were not reasonable and realistic. That's pretty clear talk. And the bright light of the future confirms the statement. The development of the Åsgard field is – and I think we should take it with us – the largest and most complex on the Norwegian base until now. This is the world's largest underwater field development, with 57 wells connected with 300 km of pipes. The above-water production facilities consist of the production ship Åsgard A for oil, Åsgard B, which is a liquid gas production platform and the storage ship Åsgard C for condensate. From 2007 onwards, the Åsgard field alone will have a gas production equivalent to 15 pst. of Norwegian gas production and 10 pst. Norwegian oil production. With the facilities on Kårstø, land pipes and the Åsgard Transport pipeline, the value chain in the Åsgard project will reach approx. $60 billion. It goes without saying that the developers, engineers and authorities have faced major challenges, which turned out to require a number of new technical solutions that were not noticed from the outset. But the problem is – as the Riksrevision correctly points out – that the builders did not take into account the economic uncertainty when they delivered the PUD, and that the Ministry of Oil and Energy did not sufficiently follow up the intentions of the Petroleum Act and St.meld. No 2 for 1992-93, neither in the treatment of the PUD nor later, as the costs were almost running. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has concluded that the responsibilities seem unclear, without which we are particularly acute in the criticism. That there is confusion, the Riksrevision also notes in its report. The Ministry of Oil and Energy also admits weaknesses in its proceedings regarding the lack of presentation of the uncertainty in cost estimates. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that it is important to clarify the responsibilities better and that there is a need to look at them with new eyes in relation to what is described in the notification. No 2nd@item: Therefore, an overall committee asks the Government to return to the Storting within a reasonable time with an overall assessment of these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e891	The black gold has flooded and weighed up many times for the money that ran into the sand in connection with the giant expansions in the North Sea in the 1990s. The Court of Auditors and the Committee of Inquiry have concluded and the Committee wisely proposes clarifying the responsibilities of the builder with the State. 12 billion DKK in exceedances in one case is 12 billion DKK in exceedances. But it's done, and it's eaten. But what does this really mean? 12 billion kroner in exceedances on Åsgard alone are equivalent, for example. the annual consumption in kindergartens plus minor parental payments. There's a lot of money, which would have been more sensible if we wanted to. So someone might say that the problem here is not that this cost a lot of money, but that we didn't get a sufficiently good analysis in advance. – And that’s right, because the money for the expansion would have been used anyway. But how could this happen, probably ask more representatives. Yeah, how could that be? Throughout the 1990s, investment in the oil sector rose from SEK 43.4 billion in 1990 to a peak in 1998, when the state ‘range of’ DKK 74.6 billion in oil investment. Throughout the 1990s, SV was opposed to investment being as high as they were. There were several reasons why we were against – and still are against – high oil investments. On the one hand, a Norway with high oil investments contributes to a high rate of extraction, which contributes to lower oil prices. As a result, the lower return on oil, higher world oil consumption and thus higher CO2 emissions will be achieved. The other side of the issue, which is probably more important in this context, is that money spent in the oil sector means less ability to spend public money on other sectors, because labour resources in society are limited. Money spent in the oil sector draws resources from other parts of both competitive and sheltered business to the oil sector. It prevents us from solving other societal challenges and turning from a pale grey and coal-black oil economy to a green knowledge-based economy. In addition, overinvestment in the oil industry makes it easier to lose control of the design and the critical threshold for projects is falling — for money should be used. That's exactly what's happened in the context we're talking about here, and that's what's at the heart of the matter. Does anyone remember what happened in 1998? In the autumn of 1998, interest rates rose dramatically and led to a high demand for fiscal restraints. It was consistently claimed by one so-called responsible politician after another that it was necessary to keep the budget tight. Actually, it was the first time I noticed that the NRK on a large scale used market players in the money and financial markets to comment on the state budget. It was tight for the market, so we wouldn't get overheating, and so we wouldn't get any more pressure in the labour market. All exceedances in the development of Åsgard could lead to a distortion of important social investment in the Norwegian economy as long as we pursued a tight fiscal policy. As long as we have exceedances, we have to spend less money elsewhere. As long as we exceeded the investment, we didn't get to invest that much money, for example. in school buildings or in research, for which business has asked for money year after year. All of this was distorted, because we had to maintain a tight fiscal policy. The central statistical agency has said that oil investment management is essential for fiscal governance. There's so much money, and it's so hugely important to have control of this money. In summary, it is an incredibly small forward-looking policy to have too high oil investments, because we are contributing to an increase in CO2 emissions, and because we are spending money that could have been used to make Norway a better place to live. It is a low level of responsibility to have too high oil investments. This will lead to a lower threshold for the types of projects to be developed and speedily lead to the adoption of under-reworked projects. To this matter: this is how it goes when we conduct a little forward-looking and little responsible policy. Listen to SV next time the investment rate in the oil sector is discussed! This case has shown that we have something to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e914	With some expansions on the continental shelf, costs were higher than planned. There have been concerns about these additional costs and the losses they entail, but also with regard to the trust you must have at your disposal the estimates of costs presented in connection with future developments. At the end of the 1990s, we saw a worrying increase in the cost of development of many projects. That's why a selection was created to look at the cost increase and try to find the explanation for what had happened. The selection concluded that there were several different reasons that went in the same direction. It is natural that the Riksrevision has examined the role of the government in relation to these excesses. I found that the Riksrevision has done a good job of identifying the role of the board of directors in these three projects that are concerned. The National Audit Office refers to a core point of the Department's function in relation to the plans for deployment and operation. It is important that, in assessing the development of projects on the continental shelf, one should consider the role of the governance and the role of the developers. When a development project is adopted, first by the owners of the field and later approved either at kgl. Resolution or in the form of decisions here in the Chamber, it is on the basis of the work done by the participants who are financially involved in the project. It concerns the design, choice of technical solutions and different assessments relating to costs and revenues. Governments will be able to look at the effects of changes in the statements made, but it is very difficult for the government to verify the numbers given by the builders. On the other hand, the powers of government have very clear roles and tasks. They have a responsibility to ensure that the development meets the requirements set for such development. The Governing Boards must also review the impact of development and ensure that the projects are implemented in a way that is justified in terms of resources such as: you can find in the various fields. The projects are planned, designed and built by the most competent people to do the job, in other words by the operator. It is the oil companies and the engineering companies that have this competence and are therefore best placed to assess the costs associated with the various expansions. It is therefore their job to project what they think is most cost-effective. Although competence is high in this area, and even if one uses the best environments in Norway, it may also be that these environments are wrong. There are many reasons why development projects are becoming more expensive or less profitable than expected, and it is important that the responsibility for the changes that are taking place in the course of the project is clarified. The National Audit Service also believes that the various sensitivity analyses for the projects are missing. The National Audit Service believes that the Board of Directors should have looked for the legal entities to carry out and document complete uncertainty and sensitivity analyses. There will always be different assessments related to such sensitivity analyses and their scope. But it is quite clear in these matters that the analyses have not covered the area that later turned out to be the result of the expansions. Therefore, it is easy to agree that the sensitivity analyses were not sufficient in this case. In the light of the National Audit Office's comments on this point, the Ministry will in future have a greater focus on such analyses than has been the case at present. Such sensitivity analyses are a good way to view the effects of a wide range of unexpected events, but they do not necessarily improve the real relationships associated with the projects. I believe that in the future, the government must continue to follow the principles that have been laid down for the administration until now, but that one has more emphasis on the matters that the Riksrevision addresses in its report. The Committee asks the Ministry to come back to the Storting with experience relating to the review of these types of cases, and of course this will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e935	We do not disagree with the description of the facts of these complex issues that the Council of State has of the facts. And when the Council of State says that the developer is responsible for the quality of the calculation, and describes this with uncertainty, I have to remind him of what we say in the setting. It is that the Storting has expectations for the Government, laid down in the Petroleum Act and in St.meld. No 2 for 1992-93. Therefore, I feel that it is not enough when the Council of State says that they will take into account the criticism of the Storting, which is reflected in this position, in the future work. A thorough review of the conditions and expectations laid down in the Petroleum Act and in the St.meld must be carried out in the Ministry of the Government. No 2, remain in force and guide. In this case, greater emphasis needs to be placed in the ministry on uncertainty and on its description and assessment. I therefore ask that the Council of State sees the Committee correctly in that it has to make an appropriate assessment of whether the Petroleum Act and the St.melding Act are appropriate. No 2 should be indicative, as described today, or if developments in the 1990s have shown that other criteria should be used. In this way, I understand that the Riksrevision's communication addresses the two key documents that I have now mentioned, and in this way the Committee fully agrees with the Riksrevision. But we are open to the possibility that development may have been such that there is a basis for laying other criteria on the basis of the ministry's treatment of PUD and subsequent changes in development projects. I just want the Council of State's confirmation that we agree that the Stortinge will be presented with a matter of what we have described here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e942	This is what I finally tried to give an answer to in my article. It is obvious that I have not made myself clear enough, but I can of course confirm what the case spokesman here asks, that such a review will be carried out, and that it will come to Stortinget in such a way that the Stortinget will also have the opportunity to take a decision on the questions when so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e961	Now I've been up on this pulpit so often that you might want to quote the song "You made my day." But we're going to talk about something serious, the EOS committee, which, through its five-year term of office, has proved to be a useful and important body for the Storting. The control of the Defence Intelligence Service, the Police Monitoring Service and the Defence Security Service provided by the EOS Committee has been introduced into procedures and practices that adequately address the parliamentary need for control and, at the same time, the special need for security of services as regards sources and the security of officials as well as the security of the State. That is why the mandate of the EOS Committee is very broad, and the Stortinget has just evaluated the system in connection with the Innst. S. No 225 for 2000-2001 by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. Here the Presidency notes that the monitoring of services by the EOS Committee, as described in the Annual Report and in the evaluation opinion delivered by the EOS Committee to the Presidency of the Stortinge on 29 November last year, must be said to have fulfilled the intentions of the Stortinge when the Control Act and the instructions were adopted in 1995. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees to this, even after the 2000 Annual Report has been considered. The mandate of the EOS Committee provides flexibility, and it is also necessary because the three services have quite different tasks. But all three have in common that they are allowed to use instruments that are excluded in other parts of society. It therefore also imposes specific requirements on services and their attitudes to the rules of the game of democracy. On the one hand, society depends on the protection provided by the secret services, but their activities and attitudes should nevertheless be subject to the fundamental values of democracy. The experience gained from the Stortingen's treatment of the Lund Commission also resulted in the Stortingen setting up its own control committee, stressing that the services should be subject to parliamentary control. The EOS Committee shall ensure, for its part, that all three services do not commit any wrong to any individual and that the service does not take more drastic action than is necessary. Here, of course, there is the possibility of misappropriation of judgement and instruments, especially because the activities of the Defence Command/Security Staff and POT are, in their nature, mostly individual-oriented. It is therefore up to the EOS Committee to ensure that legal certainty for the individual is ensured and that the activities of the services are carried out in the framework of existing laws and directives. The Committee notes that the EOS Committee has raised two issues concerning the withdrawal of security clearance in the Defence Security Service. Both cases concern two civil servants — one revocation has taken place because of several alleged breaches of document security, the other because of negative information from individuals, who otherwise depend on anonymity, on the honesty and loyalty of the employee. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee does not require — nor is it our task — to act as a judge or to distinguish between right and wrong as to whether the security clearance should have been given or not. But it may say something about the lack of quality assurance in FO/S that they have given security clearance to people they themselves do not believe they have confidence in. In this way, it is relevant to ask what reactions management made to those responsible on their own account who were found to have done away with the safety clearance. As the case is presented in the annual report of the EOS Committee, it is almost impossible to conclude that FO/S has solved staff problems using security clearance. In that case it should not be, and this is a criticism from Storting's own control committee that I had expected was taken more seriously both in the Defence Command and in the Ministry of Defence. In the opinion of the Committee, the practice of the FO in these two cases is highly critical, because the FO has not sufficiently taken into account the fact that it is not wronged against individuals and does not use more intervention than is necessary. After all, it is not for the FO/S, FO or the Ministry of Defence to use the general reason for the State's security to overrun employees that they want to withdraw from the service for objective reasons, the more questions can be asked in these two cases than have been answered. In one case, the EOS Committee stated in a letter from several of its colleagues that the clearance case had hardly been raised for safety reasons, but that there were other reasons behind it. These are such serious claims that I assume that FO/S also realize that they are well-deserved to have the matter illuminated in its full width. The EOS Committee informs that it has not yet taken a decision on a request from the respondent to carry out further investigations. In the light of the comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee, my conclusion is that all parties will be fully reviewed and that any injustices will be corrected. There is no doubt that human rights policy is also in favour of this. In the second case as well, the EOS Committee says that a case was clearly critical of the proceedings at the clearing house. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees with the views of the EOS Committee on both issues. The cases illustrate that the decision on security clearance may have very serious consequences and that it is therefore also essential to impose strict procedural requirements. In fact, services with a culture of general closedness should show particular care. Employees of the secret services shall also have security of professional dismissal and protection of workers. In these two cases, the FO/S should clearly be more responsible to two employees, who were scientifically safety-cleared, when objections to this decision were raised. Both the EOS Committee and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee believe that the FO/S and the Ministry of Defence have managed matters rather poorly, and they should provide the two employees with access to the file as far as this was appropriate without conflicting with the security of the State or the overriding rules of professional secrecy. In other words, FO/S and the Ministry should give the two employees a real opportunity to file their case before the security clearance was withdrawn. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that fundamental reasons for legal certainty so warrant. I cannot see it any other way than that FO/S has used a generally restrictive approach to transparency as a cover for poor personnel policy. Thus, nothing concluded whether the security clearance should have been given and subsequently withdrawn, that is the procedure I and the committee have been involved in in this process. In this way, I could have ended, but the matter has been replayed in the media. The newspaper has referred to matters in several articles, and the paper repeats the old philosophical question of who should guard the guards. I understand what despair lies behind the statement in the newspaper on 16 May, where one of them says: «As a trained lawyer and as a human being, this is perceived as a pure inquisition. I feel innocent." Strong words, which I perceive as a strong accusation as well as a cry for help. I assume that the EOS Committee has not said its last word in this matter. Otherwise, I read with considerable surprise the statement in the Newspaper on 18 May from the Chief Officer of the Defence Press, Per Höiby, who says that it is the Ministry of Defence that gets criticism from the EOS Committee, and not the Defence Command. Press spokeswoman Kirsti Schirven of the Ministry of Defence says on his side in the same newspaper: «We do not acknowledge that we have done anything wrong». This sounds like a discharge. The press spokesperson Schirven in the Ministry of Defence admits that she has not bothered to read Innst. S. No 235 for 2000-2001 from the Control and Constitutional Committee. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that the department is suffering from read-only refusal in relation to the settings of the Storting Control Committee. In this case, the Ministry has a problem the Council of State has to do something about immediately. In any case, the Council of State has a problem when his press spokeswoman in the newspaper interview says that the current Council of State Godal does not need a political comment because there was another government that set when the security clearance was dealt with. To be honest, I slipped into the chair when I read the comment of the press-talk woman. And let me add: when the defence is given great power within the framework of democracy, the defence must also be both responsive and humble for criticism from those who are set to be the guardians of democracy and the superiors of defence. Unfortunately, at my discretion, both the military chieftains and the Ministry of Defence spokespersons in this matter have shown a lack of understanding of society. I hope the Council of State Godal has a different view from that of the Ministry's press-talk women, and I await clarification from the Minister of Defence on three points: whether it is such that the Council of State considers itself exempt from replying to the circumstances of its department has been involved in before its accession to the Council of State realizes that both the EOS Committee and the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee actually criticise the proceedings in these two specific staff cases and, lastly, what will the Council of State do on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1026	I support the case rapporteur, Mr Ludvigsen, in the thorough and good review he has carried out in this matter. I just want to stress the importance of the fundamental issues that we address in these annual messages that we receive, namely, in the case of injustices committed against people. And I have to say that it does not help to strengthen the credibility and trust of the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence when one looks at how they have dealt with and handled the issues that are up here. It is clear that it is important for employees when they have received the approval they will receive, that they are treated in a serious and proper manner. I think it is bad craftsmanship from the Council of State Godal and the other political leadership in the Ministry of Defence if we fail to address the problems that have arisen in the wake of these two issues that have been discussed by the Committee. It is absolutely necessary, and it is essential, that the Council of State Godal now puts the cabinet in place and gives clear notice that the positions one has seen in the Ministry of Defence of those who have spoken when these matters have been mentioned are not in accordance with how the Council of State wants them to act. I also think, as the rapporteur pointed out here, that it is essential in terms of trust in the entire defence and also in the security service that when a decision is taken, one must also be able to stand by them. One must at least be able to endure a discussion and a debate on the fundamental issues when it comes to what is stated in this Annual Report. Then they can't be tause. Here one has to get on the track, and I would recommend that the Council of State Godal personally address this matter and try to bring about an amicable arrangement with those people who allegedly have been wronged here, by being treated in a way that is not worthy of defence. I expect the Council of State here and now to take up the glove, not least from the case rapporteur, Ludvigsen, that he confirms from the Chair of the Stortinge that this will be a clean-up, and that he will carry out the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1035	When I take the word, it's to emphasize that a thing has not just one side, but many sides. And after this vote was given by the committee, I think that is the basis for not taking it as hard as both the case rapporteur and, not least, Vidar Kleppe have now done in the matter that exists. It is appropriate for the Committee to ask the EOS Committee to follow up on the exercise of transparency in clearing cases in order to ensure the rights of employees. However, based on the attention given to this matter, inter alia. in the newspaper, for my part, I would say that I think one has to distinguish between two sides of the cancellation case that the EOS Committee is critical of. The first step is to remove the security clearance of the former member of staff of the Defence Command, which led to his resignation in his position. The second concerns the procedure and, in particular, the criticism that he was not given sufficient transparency. In this way, I would like to support what the rapporteur said in relation to the last one. But what I want to say is that when it comes to the first relationship, I don't think there's any reason for criticism. And why? Yes, he – and I think the Stortinget needs to know – had committed about 31 security breaches. It was mainly a breach of document security, but also a lack of follow-up as he lost his access card to the FO building, and not least the illegal storage of weapons. This is serious! With regard to the second relationship, about the transparency of the process, I believe that there is reason for the Ministry to accept the criticism that both the EOS Committee and the Committee are presenting, and I assume – as the case-rapporteur – that the Council of State provides the Storting with the actual information that the Stortinget requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1056	As the rapporteur, I feel a great need to take a reply when the committee leader says that there is so much that has happened and come to know after the cancellation. As rapporteur of the case, I have to say that the only new thing that has arisen after delivery is the statements made by press officials in the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence. With regard to the facts of the case, I have not experienced anything new. I think it is important to hold on to the fact that we do not discuss the reality of the matter in terms of security clearance or not security clearance of these persons. What we're talking about is the principle of a worker's right to transparency within the laws and instructions that the secret services work for. I think it is important that the chairman of the committee also confirms that this is what we have been told by the committee, and that is what we are critical of. We have not stated whether the security clearance should have been given in its time and whether there is a factual basis for withdrawing it. However, an overall committee requires employees in the secret services to be treated differently from what has been the case in these two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1063	When I found reason to take the floor in this case – and I also believe that the Council of State will provide information that is balanced in relation to the attention given to the matter, not least in the media, after the setting was given – it is because it is a fact that the Ministry was the appeal body after the FO had deprived the person of this security clearance, which has received a lot of attention in the media as well. What I want to maintain is that I have a very difficult time seeing that the department should have assessed this issue differently from the FO. That would have been, I think, disregarding the security regulations themselves. In sum, I think this would also have been a part of sending out bad signals about safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1070	I agree with my committee leader, Gunnar Schaug, that safety rules should be observed in this area. But I would like to ask my committee leader the following question: If this had been dealt with in a completely different way by the defense, does Gunnar Schaug not believe that this had been given a completely different publicity in the media? The reason why these problems have arisen is the way this has been addressed. It is not that the Committee has not dealt with the details, which are the problem. But when you have people in the service who have such attitudes toward people who work there, who make them not taken seriously, and who have a press-talk woman who speaks out as she has done, it's clear that it's harmful to the whole floor, and it's harmful to the important work to be done in this area. I think it is simply clumsy to make such statements as this on such an important and sensitive theme, which is about the security of the state in the utmost consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1081	The President would argue that the word 'flocked' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1084	The representative, Mr Kleppe, could not have realized that what I wanted to do was to distinguish between two sides of this case that it has become so big. That's the point that Kleppe obviously didn't get. However, what I want to maintain, as the Committee stands behind, and as the rapporteur also explained in detail, is that one may regret that it was not made available to him at an earlier stage. I will continue to maintain this criticism, and I expect that the Council of State will also now, if he will, put the matter in place. I just want to stop quoting what the committee concludes with: ‘The Committee assumes that the EOS Committee will follow up on the exercise of transparency in clearing cases in order to ensure the rights of employees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1099	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1102	Let me begin by saying that I welcome a thorough and interesting annual report from the EOS Committee and express satisfaction with the work of the EOS Committee as well as the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The control system seems to work as I see it, and it's not just an advantage from the Storting, it's also an advantage from the Government. In this respect, I have noted the feedback from the EOS Committee's self-assessment and hope that everything can be done to facilitate the work of the sample and for a good cooperation between the sample and the EOS services in the future. In my opinion, the cooperation between the EOS Committee and the services works well, and I am very pleased that the sample expresses the same thing. I am pleased with the EOS Committee's statement that there has not been any general negative evidence in relation to the Defence Security Service. However, I take note that the EOS Committee criticises the procedure in relation to two specific safety clearance cases. In this respect, I have noted the comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the need for a closer look at the legislation and procedures on the transparency of such cases. I agree that it is time to review the rules and procedures to allow for increased transparency to the extent that safety considerations allow. This will be followed up by the Department. Of course it's my responsibility. With regard to the specific safety clearance issue, I see that the issue of transparency could have been dealt with more quickly, so that transparency could have been provided at an earlier stage of the procedure. Of course, I take responsibility for the handling of those matters by the Defence Department, also in relation to what has happened under other state councils. But of course, it has limited political value to grant concessions on behalf of state councils based on parties other than the government party. The intelligence service makes a key contribution to the safeguarding of important national interests, including ensuring the security of Norwegian personnel involved in international military operations. I am very pleased that the EOS Committee states that the control of the intelligence service has not offered problems and that communication between the sample and the service has clearly improved. The Committee also notes that the services operate in accordance with the applicable guidelines. Law on the Intelligence Service drew up the overall framework for the activities. As referred to in the press, the Government in a short time aims at concreteising key issues related to the management and prioritisation of the service in an instruction that is currently being consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1117	The 2000 Annual Communication from the Steering Committee on Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services, the EOS Committee, confirms that the experience of an independent sample that controls the activities of services is good and works according to its intentions. For my part, I am pleased to note that the sample shows that it has good cooperation with the police surveillance service, and that no critical facts have been revealed in connection with the sample handling of complaints against POT in this annual report. The ongoing POT migration process is demanding. The purpose is inter alia: adapting the monitoring service to changes in the international threat and technological developments. However, like the Control Committee, I am of the opinion that the process is necessary, and the Monitoring Centre now places greater emphasis on strategic analysis and empowerment in information and communication technologies. I'm glad that the Storting through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 29 for 2000-2001 endorsed the Government’s proposal for new provisions of the Police Act on the tasks and organisation of the surveillance service — legal provisions which otherwise lead to the transfer of the surveillance service to the Police Security Service when the law is sanctioned and brought into force. The new legal provisions take account in a balanced manner of the concerns of other police bodies, the Defence Intelligence Service and the Defence Security Service, thus helping to clarify and simplify the control tasks of the sample in the future. I took the word in particular to comment on the Committee's description and assessments of the POT registration and archiving practices. The archive mass at the Monitoring Centre is heterogeneous and there is a need for a clean-up and systematisation. Such a review is necessary to ensure adaptation to the existing legislation and to facilitate the monitoring of the sample at the Monitoring Centre. Against this background, I am set up and attach great importance to implementing the measures necessary to ensure that the clearing work of the Monitoring Centre is given the necessary priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1130	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1144	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1158	I am referring to the fact that in March 2001, the Ombudsman of the Administration, the Civil Ombudsman, issued an annual report to the Stortinget on the activities for 2000. The Committee is pleased that the Communication sets out the activities of the institution and provides an overview in the form of a summary of 87 issues of general interest. The notification is based on the same model as in previous years. It is gratifying that the Ombudsman puts a lot of work into the introduction, and he addresses a number of important questions of principle. The chapter on administrative issues in particular is of general interest and has been expanded in particular in the last two years. Although there are slightly fewer cases than in previous years, they generally cover the same area as before. New rules on public access to documents at the Ombudsman’s office came into force on 1 January 2001. A unanimous committee thinks it is joyous. It is important that these rules are in place, while, for reasons of principle, it is also appropriate for the Ombudsman to have his own legislation, in that he is independent from the administration, and to control the other administration. The systematic investigations carried out by the Civil Ombudsman are important. As in previous years, a broad review has been carried out, with two systematic studies in 2000 mentioned in the notification. Several are also in progress, which we will see in the next case. Two studies are specifically mentioned in this Communication. One relates to the practice of the administrative law in cases of compensation for victims of violence, and the other concerns an examination of whether the proceedings of the county council held the standard it should hold or whether there were some points that could be improved. It is important that the Civil Ombudsman be provided with the financial framework necessary to carry out the control activities which he is to carry out on behalf of the Stortinget. The management of the Ombudsman’s system is subject to follow-up to these decisions. We have had cases relating to the Ministry of Justice, and as the Minister of Justice sits here, I would like to say that when one pointed out last year that the Ministry of Justice has not followed up properly, and it is those who are required to enforce law and justice in this country, it becomes a bit strange and incomprehensible to me that they can operate polemics with the Civil Ombudsman in respect of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 28 of the Administrative Act, the right to appeal against the Board's rejection decision. I find it strange when the Ombudsman has pointed this out, that the Ministry of Justice does not follow up the Ombudsman's recommendation. It is true that the Ombudsman has been set up, in the form of a legal instruction, to ensure that the public administration is not to do wrong against the individual citizen and to ensure that the public system follows up what the Civil Ombudsman does. I hope that the Minister of Justice will take this further, and that we will have a change in this, so that we will let go of what we have now. In the previous year's report, we had a case that concerned the Ministry of Justice, and the same thing now. I am not going to review the 87 individual matters included in the communication, but I would just like to stress the importance of following up the decisions taken by the Ombudsman and the recommendations he makes regarding public matters and the matters he goes into and examines. It is also important that the procedure at the Civil Ombudsman should be as short as possible. The credibility and trust of the Ombudsman is important, which is an independent institution responsible for the Ombudsman’s role in Stortinget. A unanimous committee is pleased with the work done by the Civil Ombudsman. In the setting we see that he believes he can do even more, and we look forward to the continuation. This is going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1179	I would like briefly to comment on the subject raised by the representative, Mr Kleppe, as rapporteur of the case, namely the issue of Section 28 of the Administrative Act and the disagreement between the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department on the understanding of this provision. I'm going to say two things. The first thing I want to stress is that what this disagreement has been about has not been about dealing with a specific matter, but about the general understanding of the law. The Ombudsman has addressed this with the Ministry of Justice relating to questions of general interpretation of Section 28 of the Administrative Act. The Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice are in so far as they agree with each other, and the Ombudsman has written that both interpretations – i.e. both the interpretation followed and expressed by the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department since 1996, and that the Ombudsman himself believes is the best – can be defended. Then I agree with the committee that when it is discovered that there is a different interpretation of a legal provision between the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice's law department, it should be clarified. Then I would like to point out that when the Ministry of Justice first answered this question, it was not the answer that one did not want to clarify it, but that one wanted to take it in connection with a revision of the administrative law. The background to this is, of course, that there is a challenge for the Ministry of Justice, and not least for the Department of Justice, that there is always a queue of legislative projects where there are still questions about which priority to be given. This was the reason why the Ministry of Justice said at the time that this might not be the legislative project that came first in line, because it was thought that the legal understanding that had been practised by itself and other departments since 1996 was sound. That also meant the Ombudsman. I just want to – and now I come to the other thing I want to say – to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice in a letter to the Civil Ombudsman in May has stated that it is aimed at sending out a letter of consultation on the understanding of Section 28 of the Administrative Act in order to clarify it during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1190	Just a brief comment. Of course, the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman on the activities for the year 2000 fully confirms that the Civil Ombudsman provides our citizens with a practical, easily accessible, cheap and simple opportunity to investigate any problems they may have with the authorities. I would also just like to join the rapporteur, Vidar Kleppe, in commenting on the civil ombudsman's general business. Once again, the annual report has stated that the investigations carried out by the Ombudsman are carried out on the basis of a mandate from the Stortinget. The Ombudsman cannot therefore be considered to be any overall authority or supervisory body for the administration. As you can see, the Ombudsman is also a personal corrigendum to the bureaucracy. I say this just to underline the comments that a unanimous committee presents in the present setting. The theme that Vidar Kleppe has addressed is presented in the minority comments by representatives Hagen and Vidar Kleppe. The following has become apparent in the second paragraph of these paragraphs: ‘The Committee agrees with the Ombudsman’s assessments and wonders that the ministry has informed the Ombudsman that it would not invite the Stortinget to the clarification necessary if the ministry would not comply with the Ombudsman’s legal understanding or recommendations.’ This is the minority that stands for. But I think it is very good for the case that the Minister of Justice has now clarified this relationship, and such an unexplained relationship, that is, that the provision is interpreted differently by the Civil Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice, should not, of course, last forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1206	I think it was okay that the Minister of Justice took that ball. I don't know if she knew that this statement came from a minority, but anyway she followed it up. And even though the representative, Mr. Schaug, was not in on the committee comment that had crept in on an incursion, it's at least a pleasure to see that this is being followed up, and that we get a clarification on these questions. In general, when it comes to interpretation of the law, I would say that there are problems with that, we have to get a case in Stortinget on it. As the Minister of Justice is going to send the matter to the hearing, and that we are going to get it during the fall, we can probably live with it. The principle and importance of these questions is that we all too often see that the public authorities and departments do not follow up on the demands that have been made in settings or through the discussion that the Civil Ombudsman often has over a long, long time, whether it is with municipalities or state agencies. He doesn't make a decision like this, because they have plenty of opportunity to comply with the recommendations made by the Civil Ombudsman, and I think the Civil Ombudsman is both formed and polite in the way he appeals to both the public and those involved in these matters. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice will at least now follow this up, and that her department takes the Civil Ombudsman seriously. It was high time we saw the settings we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1211	I just needed to clarify that in what I said, it is not that I immediately assume that the Civil Ombudsman is right in his understanding of the law, but that I believe that if it is over time that the Law Department and the Civil Ombudsman express different understanding of the law, it is in itself a problem that there may be reason to clarify. I would also like to make it clear that I do not believe that it must automatically be that the Civil Ombudsman expresses a certain understanding of the law, which can be discussed, should lead to other matters being thrown overboard immediately and going to Stortinget with the legal question the Civil Ombudsman has raised. But once again, if it turns out that there is disagreement over time, it's something our people have delight in being clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1218	I would like to refer to the minority comment. Because in the past it has suggested that there may have been some misunderstandings, I would like to stress that this is by no means meant as any criticism of the Civil Ombudsman. On the contrary, there is a call for perhaps to exploit to an even greater extent part of the instruments that the Civil Ombudsman has under his mandate, and a kind of request to perhaps make even more clear to the Stortinget that there is a lack of laws that can be seen. I have the belief that through very many reviews of cases sometimes there may be some sort of pattern in the views of a law that is still related to matters, and then clarifying the law might be able to reduce the amount of complaints. The progress party therefore wants to give an encouragement to the Civil Ombudsman. At the same time, we are pleased that some extra things have now come in addition to the ordinary ones. We would want even more. The beneficial effect of the Riksrevision coming up with a lot of things, the so-called Document No. The 3-series, is something we hope the Civil Ombudsman will assess whether is a practice that can also be followed by him to a greater extent. So our remark, to which the representative Kleppe has also joined, is, in effect, a call to the Civil Ombudsman to, if he finds it possible, make more use of the mandate to the full, in favour of the struggle of individuals against bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1237	Yes, here we have received a special message from the Civil Ombudsman. We just finished the Annual Report, and now we're going to go into what's important and fundamental with the Civil Ombudsman, that's that the Civil Ombudsman can go in and do thorough, serious and proper investigations, which we're once again getting as separate messages. When you look at the important point that goes into the practice of the Public Relations Act, there are now Lillehammer and Trondheim municipalities that have been put under the spotlight. I have to say that there is no uplifting reading when you review and see what the Civil Ombudsman has come up with. There are three different aspects the Civil Ombudsman has initially concentrated on regarding the practice of the Public Health Act. One is the process of concrete requests for transparency. When looking at what has happened in these two municipalities, it is absolutely necessary that the legislation be followed, as a unanimous committee underlines the importance of this. There's a lot of grey areas here, and here we see that the municipalities are basically not positive that people should be given the opportunity to see. For example, if you take Trondheim City Council into account when it comes to reporting, you can see that the general impression of the Civil Ombudsman is that the material examined is in practice in line with the legislation, but when you go in and see how these journals are kept, and how they have been used, with omissions and overprints, it is clear that the things that were really supposed to be OK in the first place are not. And when you look at the number of things that have been up in these municipalities, I have to say that it's delete reading when there were of 53 things that the Civil Ombudsman investigated, 52 things he had comments on. In Trondheim municipality there was criticism in 31 of 35 things. So here we have a huge problem, and I think the problems are also in other municipalities. We see that with the government we have, and with the openness that we want to have to citizens and to others, it is important that these rules are followed up. I hope that the suspension and the special message that have been submitted here mean that all the municipalities are getting stronger, and that the department will also follow up to the municipalities in terms of the Public Service Act. The Progress Party and I have therefore made a proposal in this position, and I will address this in conclusion. Then I hope that the critical comments from the committee will be followed up, and that everyone and everyone who is in charge of such matters, both in municipalities, in the public sector and in departments, as we have seen in other matters that we have dealt with during this day, takes seriously what is pointed out here. When it comes to follow-up and what to do here, it may also be appropriate to get a public office, which we have in some other areas – we have credit supervision to look at credit policy, etc. Clearly, with regard to the problem we see here, with the challenges that the municipalities are not following up, there is also a basis for assessing it. So I'm just referring to the proposal and counting that this is going on, and that we can follow this up. We would like to see an initiative from the relevant state councils that is responsible for following up this good message that has come from the Civil Ombudsman, even though the content, what the municipalities are doing, is a smack act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1252	Vidar Kleppe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1255	The left is engaged in openness and publicity as a fundamental factor in democracy. State and municipality are citizens' tools, and not a power apparatus to operate on its own, elevated above the people it serves. We are pleased that the government of Bondevik promoted the new Public Relations Act, and the upsurge it brought to Stortinget. The left has also been in favour of greater transparency in administration, and we will remain vigilant in this field. The Civil Ombudsman's inquiries into Lillehammer and Trondheim municipalities show that the law alone is not enough. Bureaucracies can always find reasons to put their own interests ahead of those of their citizens. Left parts of the big and whole Progress Party and Vidar Kleppes comments in this setting. We also think it is alarming when the Civil Ombudsman finds critical facts in so many of these cases that have been examined. It is difficult to claim that this is due to wrong will, but at least it is due to a lack of knowledge and a lack of awareness of the importance of the principle of disclosure in those who are to practise those provisions. This applies in Norwegian municipalities, but it also applies in central government. I myself have recently addressed this in a written question to the Minister of Justice, after a study from the University of Oslo showed that six out of ten ministerial staff knew and agreed that illegal secrecy is taking place in the government apparatus. There is a clear need for a change of attitude in this area, at all levels of administration. With the results of the studies of these two municipalities, I'm surprised that no more parties in the committee are taking a little stronger to show their attitude in this area. It should have been obvious that the Progress Party and Vidar Kleppes comments here received broad agreement in the Committee and in the Stortinget. I agree with the intention of proposal No. 1 which has been promoted, and which is mentioned in the statement, that the Government should have an offensive against the municipalities, but it is unclear in the form. Therefore, the Left promotes its own proposal, which has been distributed and which I would like to refer to: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an offensive to improve the practice of public disclosure law in the central government and local government sectors.’ I have here in addition to including the local government sector, because I think it is necessary to include it in the offensive that I believe is in place. The minority in the committee is very careful to say that they take note of the criticism from the Civil Ombudsman and assume that Trondheim and Lillehammer municipalities are improving. They thus isolate this to become a matter of concern to these two municipalities. I think the results that have been found are an expression of a general attitude in Kommune-Norway, and that therefore one has to go to work in general to do something about this. That is the background to the proposal that the Left is promoting and which I am formally promoting here. We also share the intention of the proposal that places the search light on the appeal procedure. However, in this respect, I point out that the selection that is now working to look at changes in the Public Health Act, the Public Health Act Committee, as part of its mandate, has to look at complaints procedures, including possible mechanisms proposed here. It would be wrong to conclude in detail and specifically while awaiting this sample’s setting, which is relatively near at hand. I call for this proposal to be transmitted without any substantive consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1275	Gunnar Kvassheim has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1278	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Kvassheim, for his commendable words on the comments made by the members of the Committee of the members of the Committee who have received the agreement of the representative, Mr Kleppe. I thought it was nice, and in some other contexts it might make the Left think that the Progress Party is not as bad as the Left in some contexts later to express, and that one can start to reconsider some of its general positions on the Advance Party in other contexts that might have to appear after the election. So to an observation about this with publicity and the interest in more openness. Here's a nice sociological phenomenon that's going on. There are two groups that disagree completely with – and do not want – more publicity, but which later as they are champions of more publicity. One group is the political parties Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, which have strong government ambitions, and which hate public opinion, that it can be revealed to the public what they are doing. In many debates later those who would like more publicity. But they really don't think so, because every time there are concrete proposals that can ensure that something is set up to ensure that the laws are complied with, they're against. The other group that they want to have more publicity later on is the press, the media. They also sometimes hold a high profile in terms of public disclosure, and from their organisations it is becoming increasingly clear that they want more publicity. But they don't want to, because the big headlines always come when they reveal secrets. "VG reveals" is almost a series. They love that things are secret, so that they can somehow strangely gain insight and thus reveal secret documents, secret letters and secret encounters. Imagine if everything was public – then there would be no basis for all these big headlines! They also have this dual morality in which they present themselves as the public defender, but as soon as an area becomes public, the media completely loses interest in it. They do not want to convey e.g. debates in the Stortingen on publicity, as far as I can see, because it is like public, it is. That's what's not public that has their interest. At least over the years, we have sometimes had some success with ‘accidentally’ letting some document stamped ‘secret’ get on the road to a press shelf; it has led to a good lookup. So if you want something published, it's almost a sure way to get it out, to label it'secret', because then the interest is aroused. I think it's a little polite, because these two groups -- the four games I mentioned, and the press -- actually present themselves as champions of more publicity. It appears in Innst. S. No 280 in a pretty straightforward way. On page 3, first column: ‘The Committee agrees with the Civil Ombudsman’s criticism of the municipalities in these cases.The Committee assumes that Lillehammer and Trondheim municipalities are changing their practices to address the critical facts revealed by the Civil Ombudsman in their investigation.’ How in the world is it possible to assume that these two municipalities are changing their practices? They do not risk anything by continuing their practice. There is no punishment, no fine – nothing. There is criticism in a document that has come from the Civil Ombudsman, but so what – what then – nothing happens! And that's exactly what's remarkable, that when it comes to critical issues that are revealed in public administration – I fully agree with what was said about the central government of Kvassheim, but it's the municipalities that are now involved in this matter – nothing happens. If there are any private companies or traders who do not respond to a form from the Statistical Central Bureau, they will face a fine, a penalty fee. And even for a ridiculously small company, a limited company that is not suitable for sending in its accounts to the registers in Brønnøysund, it becomes a matter. It'll be fine, then it'll be punishment. But if a municipality or state office gives a blank -- that expression I think has never been charged by the president, then let me try it -- to comply with the disclosure law, and the persistent leave it alone, nothing happens. There's nothing happening to the bureaucrats as secretaries. There's nothing happening to the municipality or the establishment as an instance. We have now imposed corporate penalties, a company may be fined for errors made by an employee. That's why we now need to strengthen the possibilities for reaction, in order to correct the situation. There is no reason to believe that what the committee writes – of course, but we have some comments in addition – should in itself be enough to change it. That is why we firmly support our proposal to set up a public service agency and a Public Service Council based on the model of the Consumer Ombudsman and the Market Council. There are ways of providing for criminal responses if you do not want to follow what is required. And when the parties I mentioned, once again probably going to go against this, it's just proof that they really don't want these laws to be followed. Finally, let me recommend that the members of the Progress Party also vote in favour of the Left's proposal. It's a small extension, a slightly different formulation, but maybe – maybe – the Left has had a little hope of bringing with it its collaboration parties. And then the number starts to grow. And if you took the new beekeepers to the right, you might be able to approach a majority. It would be a little bit exciting. That is why I would like to signal that I would recommend that our group also vote in favour of the Left's proposal. Finally, I would like to say that it would also make sense if the Ombudsman again assessed some of it, which we know is applicable to the Riksrevision, which sometimes gives the ‘To the Observation’ department in a number of cases. That means that you follow up the year after, that you don't let it be a one-time operation. Although this is Lillehammer and Trondheim municipalities that have been investigated, there are actually examples of Kommune-Norge. There's no reason to think that these are not representative of the rest of the municipalities. I hope that in a year's time the Ombudsman will also take new samples and investigate whether there are any improvements – I have no reason to believe that it will be, unless you follow our thinking and our proposals – and that the Civil Ombudsman will follow up the cases that have been revealed, so as to report on the fact that he made a special announcement to the Stortingen a year ago, and whether it has led to improvements, or whether there has actually been a blow in the air that has not worked. I hope that the Civil Ombudsman will follow up matters, if not one, some years later, to see if it helps, and then let the Stortinget get informed about it, so that in a few years it may be possible to bring more parties to the sensible policy and the sensible proposals that the Advance Party stands for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1309	A brief note from my right and mine: It is clear that the Public Service Act must of course be complied with in the municipalities as well. But I am not willing to draw the conclusion of this study that it is generally such that the Public Service Act is not properly complied with in the municipalities. There is a limited area in which the Civil Ombudsman has just entered two municipalities. I do not think that we should draw the conclusions that resource-intensive measures should now be implemented, as set out in the proposals both by the Progress Party and by the Left. I disagree with Mr Hagen, who believes that remarks from the Stortinget or from the Civil Ombudsman are not taken into account, and nothing is happening. I trust that these two municipalities, which it is perfectly true, take these things seriously. I agree that the Civil Ombudsman should be happy to follow up and make sure that this happens, so you get a sample of it. I think it is positive that the Civil Ombudsman goes into such areas as this, and hopes that it will also happen in the future. But when the Right will not vote in favour of the proposals, neither the Advancement Party nor the Left, it must not be interpreted as meaning that we do not want publicity and that the law is to be observed. I feel that it is more a matter of emphasis, and that there is no factual disagreement that the disclosure law should apply at all levels. But when the Committee has put this into words, when the Civil Ombudsman has now made a statement to the two municipalities concerned, it will be enough in this round. And if the Civil Ombudsman's activity would possibly reveal similar cases in these municipalities or in other municipalities, we'll get back to whether it's necessary to take a stronger step. But as it is now formulated in the Committee's position, I feel it is sufficient in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1325	The representative Ludvigsen has the confidence in Norwegian municipalities, and in particular the two concerned, that they will take note of the Civil Ombudsman's message to the Stortinget and insofar as instigators in the Municipality of Norway are to be more effective and more careful in complying with the Public Health Act. I could imagine asking Ludvigsen what guarantee he believes that other municipalities – I am thinking of both municipal politicians, municipal councillors and others – are at all aware that the Civil Ombudsman has given this message to Stortinget, that they are at all aware that there have been samplings in two municipalities with a very welcome result. Is there any system that automatically informs Kommune-Norge about the contents of the Civil Ombudsman's communication to the Stortinget and the outcome of the investigation and, where appropriate, the Stortinge's debate on these matters? If Ludvigsen cannot say how he expects the Municipality of Norway to be made aware of the matter at all, could he be prepared to consider at least some dissemination measures, so that the persons concerned with these types of studies are aware of the existence of the Public Service Act and that the Civil Ombudsman has identified significant deficiencies in two municipalities used for sampling? Will he then be prepared at least to do something about that? Because if he agrees that there is no system where this is communicated, what reason does Ludvigsen have to believe that Kommune-Norge will comply with the views of the Civil Ombudsman – so when they are not familiar with the views of the Civil Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1332	I actually trust the local politicians, but I understand that I and the representative Hagen may have different opinions for the time being about this with confidence and whether you can trust someone. So I am in the situation that both I as a representative and my party have confidence. I also trust that local politicians around Norway will comply with the Public Service Act. That there is a breach of the disclosure law, as well as other laws, in some cases, must not make us believe – as Hagen clearly does – that no one outside this house is briefing on what is happening here, or whether they are the promises we make. The Public Procurement Act has been passed, and I am absolutely sure that the local government sector, whether it be the politicians or the administration, is well aware of the law. I thus say that I have confidence in them. There is no general impression I or the Right are left with, that the Public Relations Act is not being complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1339	There are recent reports suggesting that the situation in Lillehammer and Trondheim is common in the majority of Norwegian municipalities. Fresh reports prove it. So the Right Spokesman says in this case that one does not want to start ‘resource-intensive’ efforts to improve the practice of municipalities and central government. There doesn't have to be a resource-intensive effort. With simple instruments, it is possible to have improved practice in municipalities and in central government. The left has launched a ‘Be open’ poster, which is used in some departments, with the result that it became easier to say yes to transparency and more difficult to say no. The same has been done in many municipalities, with significant positive results. So it's possible to do something in this area with small resources and simple instruments. I am very disappointed that the Right on reflex says no to the proposal left has been distributed today. So Svein Ludvigsen says that it must not be interpreted as not having involvement in this field. Well, I'll explain it that way, when you're not willing to back up a proposal that, with simple and low resource-intensive instruments, can get a significantly improved practice in a relationship between citizens and government, which should be at the heart of the Right. So my question is whether the Right is willing to reconsider its point of view on the Left's proposal, when there is evidence that there can be a lot of work without much effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1349	The President expects the representative to respond to the reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1352	I wasn't aware that we were in a line exchange. As I have now explained, you do not want to start with an offensive. I understand that it must mean something more than sending a circular, when the Left now proposes to launch an offensive. We feel that there is no need for a large-scale offensive in order to improve the practice of public disclosure law in central and local government, on the basis of a study of three limited parts of the law's territory in two municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1359	I did not get an answer to my first reply, namely, the question: if there is no communication service because Kommune-Norge is made familiar with the Civil Ombudsman's message and the critical conditions of the two sample municipalities, how can you be confident that these comments, which have not been made, will be followed up? You can't seriously believe that everyone who works in let's say leadership positions in Kommune-Norge, and municipal politicians, until those degrees are included in the huge range of things that happen in the state administration and in the Stortinget, and that they can and know everything – especially when there is no one who communicates it to them. The media doesn't do that. And as far as I know – it is possible that I am wrong – neither does the Civil Ombudsman have an automatic messaging service. How, then, can they be confident that they will follow up something they do not know that they will follow up? That was my main question. Then Ludvigsen says that he has full and complete security to do the best you can with this in the municipal sector. What is he based on then? He can't at least be based on the samples of the Civil Ombudsman in Lillehammer and Trondheim, because that's probably the only knowledge we have about how the Municipality of Norway acts on these questions. I would like to read from the Committee's comments: ‘The Committee has noted that out of 53 pre-classifications examined in Lillehammer municipality, he found the basis for critical comments in 52 cases.’ That's 99 pst. It! In the municipality of Trondheim 35 cases were investigated, and there were criticisms of 31 of them. Now I can't calculate it that accurately, but it's going to be 85 pst. or something like that. The main response from the Civil Ombudsman's investigation is that there is no reason to trust the follow-up of the Public Health Act by Kommune-Norway. Then my question is to the representative Ludvigsen: what does he know that all of us do not know, and what is he based on when he says that he has confidence in the local government, when these studies show that there is no basis for this? What reports and studies are the basis of the representative Ludvigsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1371	My trust is based on the fact that Kommune-Norge is familiar with and complies with the Public Relations Act as the other laws affecting the municipal sector. It's not that everyone knows that 99 or 85 pst. of the cases in the municipal sector, there is a breach of the law. There is no evidence that this is now the case in the municipal sector as shown by this limited survey of the two municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1376	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1379	That a majority in this Chamber will not follow the message of the Civil Ombudsman is regrettable. I see that there are government members here and follow closely in the discussion and debate. And with the Social Minister sitting here, it would have been interesting to hear what she thinks about exactly this issue when it comes to one major sector, namely the health and social sector. Because in her sector, we have many examples of things being excluded from the public with incorrect application and justification. I would like to challenge the Minister of Social Affairs whether she takes seriously this discussion and this debate that we have, and what she will do to Kommune-Norge in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1393	I asked for the floor almost for an explanation of vote. During this debate, a proposal by the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim was tabled on behalf of the Left. This is a generally formulated proposal, and I understood it so that the representative Kvassheim had transformed this proposal into a transmission proposal. So he didn't. I thought that was the case, and in that case I would have sympathy for it. I think it is wrong to take this specific matter into account and promote the types of proposals that the minority in the Committee on its part has made, and now, therefore, Gunnar Kvassheim – general proposals. I had hoped that these had been sent to the government without a trial. But when it's not done, I just want to sign out on behalf of the Workers' Party and say that this can in a way be regarded as a big business towards the Government, that it should behave differently from what the law says. So I had hoped that at least Kvassheim had converted his proposal. After all, he himself has characterized the proposals of the minority in the committee as somewhat unclear in form. That's where I share Kvassheim's opinion and perception. But with regard to this matter, I will once again take into account that there is an overall committee – also Hagen and Vidar Kleppe – which assumes that Lillehammer and Trondheim municipalities, which are therefore the basis for this case, will change their practice in order to address the critical circumstances revealed by the Civil Ombudsman in his investigation. I would like to remind you that in the past we have also received a message from the Civil Ombudsman, who also went on other matters. It went on an examination of the Ministry of Justice's practice of the Public Health Act. It was a very interesting message for Stortinget. I assume that this case will also be pursued further. I have no doubt that this case does not give such a true picture of Kommune-Norge as this debate may have created the impression that only the two municipalities and perhaps some others can stand for poor public practice. In fact, I think this is a big problem in general. And everyone should be interested in the disclosure law being practised as the law has been passed, both in Municipality-Norway and in the state administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1404	I think we're discussing a topic that is generally a challenge. Because what we're talking about is we're adopting laws that we all want to follow, but as it's hard to get everyone to follow, not least in the right way. In the field of the Public Health Act, it also, of course, contributes to the fact that it is partly difficult to practice the Public Health Act in a good way and to make the right assessments at all times. The study carried out by Finn Sjue, which is not only specific to the Ministry of Justice, but also to the Ministry Councils, shows this. Too many people just said that part of what they thought was wrong – that they didn't practice publicity when they were supposed to do it – was due to misinterpretation and misassessment of the provisions. I would like to join those who have said that you do not believe that there is any unwillingness or desire not to practise the Public Service Act in the municipalities. I am absolutely convinced that the municipalities want to practise the Public Relations Act as best they can. When you don't always make it, it's not a bad will. It is a proposal from the representative of Kvassheim here on an offensive to the municipalities. I want to remember that it is not very long since Stortinget dealt with the announcement, and after that one had a round among others. to the municipalities and to the KS with a view to obtaining training, information and attention on the Public Service Act. At that time, it was also one of the Left's depository representatives who was appointed as the Council of State in the Ministry of Justice. At least I don't believe that Kvassheim believes that it was the will it was on to get an offensive when it came to the disclosure law. But you don't always get there, even if you do a lot of work to get it done. So Carl I. Hagen raised questions about the dissemination of the Civil Ombudsman's message to the municipalities. I think it is a very good input, and I can imagine trying – possibly via KS – to contribute to the dissemination of the content of that message to the municipalities of the country, because in any case in the municipalities there is no hurt in going through and getting well acquainted with the message and the points of view, the interpretations and the training that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1420	Let me first give praise to the Council of State for the last time she said. There may be something positive coming out of the debate, by the fact that she from Stortinget's pulpit has promised to consider making sure that Kommune-Norge gets acquainted with the notification to the Civil Ombudsman. I think that will be very useful, and I am very grateful for that. I hope that when you first care for it, you may also be able to convey other good ideas, especially if it is not bad will – I take note that the Council of State believes that. She also said that you can't always comply with the rules. So it's revealed here that in 52 out of 53 cases investigated in Lillehammer, it was not possible to follow the rules, and that in 31 out of 35 cases investigated in Trondheim, it was not possible. So it's an overwhelming material that can indicate that you are very rarely – not always, but very rarely – able to follow the rules. Then you might have to look at the course activities and the political desires. In the context of communication to Kommune-Norge, either directly, as I would prefer, or via the Municipalities' Central Association – as long as you make sure that the Municipal Communities' Central Association follows up and contacts Municipality-Norge and not only leaves it in the drawer – you might consider looking at the Open poster that Left has created. Perhaps you could just reword such a "Be Open" poster, so that it fits the various levels of a normal Norwegian municipality, and that, as a government, you give it your political recommendation. For in the case of Kommune-Norge, it is the government that generally via the county council, and in other ways via the state councils, must ensure that laws and laws – in order to use a slightly unclear expression – are followed up by the administration. So I interpret the Minister of Justice as – and I would like her to confirm it – that now the Government has at least noticed the Civil Ombudsman's message, and that the Government will discuss how it is responsible for getting the administration both in municipalities and in the state to comply with laws and regulations, will ensure a proper assessment of this issue, and of any measures taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1432	I am not sufficiently familiar with the ‘Be open’ poster to which the representative Kvassheim and now the representative Hagen referred. But the fact that, along with a transmission of the Civil Ombudsman's message to the municipalities of the country, you also have a letter of transmission where you generally explain how to use the Public Service Act, and encourage you to use it correctly and correctly – and do it in a good and educational way – is, of course, open to me. We can take that with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1437	Initially, I would just like to take the opportunity to clarify a misunderstanding regarding this with the transmission of proposals. What I asked for was to be sent was the proposal that was made for a public office, because the Public Law Committee in its work deals with complaints procedures, and there will be a position in a relatively short time. Then it would be natural to conclude at that point. The left is concerned, is that what has emerged in the settings following the studies in Trondheim and Lillehammer, is followed up beyond these two municipalities. It does not contribute to the majority in its position, and that is the background to our proposal. I believe there is a need for an offensive in the state administration and in the municipalities, not just once for all, but at regular intervals because this is complicated, and that is important. So there is therefore no contradiction between it that in the wake of the public announcement there was an offensive, and that one takes hold of this again. I perceive far on the road what the Council of State is now saying, as a yes to trigger such an offensive. She confirms that she will make sure that the municipalities are familiar with the Civil Ombudsman's investigation and conclusions, and at the same time she is willing to rely on a recommendation to prioritise the work of complying with the Public Health Act. One is also open to consider the Left’s ‘Be Open’ poster, which has been used in several departments, with a positive response, and which has been introduced in several municipalities. The supervisor will guide the individual case handler and make the way for those who would say no, longer, and for those who would say yes, shorter. So I just want to confirm once again that what the council says yes to is to send a request to the municipalities, which in turn means that she is willing to join an offensive in this area in addition to what is referred to in the case of Lillehammer and Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1448	I don't think there's any reason to create more disagreement around this than there's any reason, to say it like that. I don't think anyone in this room – at least not signed – disagrees with the fact that there is a desire to contribute to, as far as possible and in a good way, that all institutions, whether central government or local government, practice the Publicity Act – which has been adopted more or less unanimously in the Stortinget, at different times – in a correct and good way. It's important. And then the next question is, how do we do it offensively and correctly, and at the right dosage at all times? Everyone realizes that it doesn't make sense to send new circulars every month, so here it has to be a balance. Now I think that the Civil Ombudsman's annual report and what has been revealed there – which is also a concrete review – can be a good starting point for informing the municipalities about it, and at the same time say something to the municipalities in this regard. I confirm that I would like to do that. So it's not that the practice of publicity is forgotten between every time it's taken up in this room. At least in the Ministry of Justice, as I naturally know best, the Public Relations Act is a central part of any initial training. We have regular courses on the disclosure law, there is a publicity coordinator in each department. Participation in Finn Seven's study was part of trying to contribute to public attention and knowledge. Fortunately, this has also contributed to this, even though of course the results have several sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1457	The president is now a little bit uncertain about Carl I. Hagen asked for the word just to line up, or if he also signed up on the list of speakers. He also drew himself on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1460	I drew myself on the list of speakers – and then on a line. But the post I was going to make, I'm now not going to hold because it's been very useful with the round of clarification in the line change with the Council of State. So I draw proposal number. 1, from the Progress Party, because it has a form in which we ask the Government to do something that the Minister of Justice now in Stortinget has already confirmed that the Government will do. And then, in accordance with parliamentary practice, it is wrong for me to maintain a proposal that the Government has already said it will follow up on. So I draw proposal number. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1483	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1490	The size shall now consider a Document No. 8 proposals for measures to improve the economic situation of poor families with children. We've noticed an increased focus on such issues lately, and I'm recording a strong commitment from all parties on the Storing and from people else in society to improve the situation of these families. The welfare state of Norway cannot have a situation where children have to live in what could be described as poverty. I think everyone agrees on this, but the reasons are many, and the problems are often big. Therefore, there is no shortcut out of this situation. This is why the Government is working on several levels and areas to find good and sustainable solutions that get people out of this situation as quickly as possible and that will prevent new ones from entering into such a situation. Despite many important and good measures, there are ever new ones that fall outside. We must be able to prevent this in the future. Social assistance must be the economic plan that will work when none of the many other economic arrangements are sufficient. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that, in its circular to the municipalities on social assistance, the Ministry has stressed the need to take account of the fact that children are to have as normal an upbringing as possible and that children are to be given the opportunity to participate in normal leisure activities. It is important that these rules are followed in order to ensure that the living conditions and standards of life of children are optimised in an otherwise difficult situation. Children must not feel neglected and not be able to take part in leisure activities because the family has a difficult financial situation. However, social assistance is not something that should be permanent. That's why it needs a set of tools to get people out of this situation. I do not believe the answers to this is in the proposal we are now considering, nor do I believe that such a major problem can be solved by means of a document. Eight proposals. I think offering paid work is one of the most important contributions to getting people out of a situation comparable to poverty. Today, too many out of working life are facing a hopeless situation of loss of income, home and social contact. For many, this is the result when you can't stick to it at an ever tougher pace. I think everyone sees that this can be one of the main reasons for the problems we are facing, but at the same time we have to recognise that this is not something that can be solved overnight. In the wake of a difficult economic situation, the housing situation is also becoming a problem. Here, too, there are improvements to be able to provide a good accommodation for everyone. Hospitals are not a good place to live for anyone — and least for the children. In the treatment of the defrosting message, a unanimous collapse said that the shelter had to be wound up as a housing solution for families with children. A majority of the Committee welcomes the fact that the Government is working to reduce the use of residential accommodation, especially for families with children, but realises that this is also a practical challenge that must take some time to implement. I perceive the majority of the committee so that the government now has to continue working on the changes that are needed to improve the situation of poor families with children and other disadvantaged people in society. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1518	I would like to congratulate the proposers for the commitment and willingness to improve that they show. It is important to focus on children being brought up as well as possible. It is difficult to understand that in today’s Norway, children cannot participate in the same activities as their classmates because they lack money. It makes the impression when the parents say that the children are getting good at lying and finding excuses for not participating in activities. There is a lot of evidence to confirm that many families with children are struggling with the economy. The study ‘Social Puls 2001’ carried out by ECON on Norway’s Red Cross showed that poverty is most prevalent among young single, young children’s families and single dependants. It was found that poor children usually live in families where at least one parent does not have a job. 44 pst. for refugee children living in families that are totally or partially dependent on social assistance, while the same is true for 10 pst. by Norwegian children. There are also children living with homeless parents. The Christian People's Party believes it is totally unacceptable that families with children do not have their own housing. Hospitals are not suitable as housing for families with children, and we are therefore satisfied that reduced use of the hospital as housing for them is now being worked on. The Christian People's Party has always been critical of the changes adopted for the transitional aid. We think it's not flexible enough, especially for those who want to spend more time in education. Competence is important in order to get a wage that you can live off and drop social welfare. The central government was concerned with a fairer distribution and took the initiative to prepare the Equalisation Communication. During the treatment of it, we agreed, together with, among other things, The Workers' Party, that cash support should not be included as income in the assessment of the need for economic social assistance. Less than one year after the decision, the Workers' Party has turned around. In a circular to the municipalities they encourage to do exactly the opposite! We have just had an evaluation of the cash support, and one of the positive effects was that the cash support has been shown to have an income balancing effect. This benefits the poor families of children. The Christian People's Party does not support the introduction of mandatory minimum rates of social assistance, as we do not believe that a general minimum rate gives any better signal of individual follow-up than guiding standards. We believe that it is important that the municipalities stress that children should have as normal an adult as possible, as the guidelines specify. We think the government has fallen at an too low level. They should have followed SIFO's assessments and rates as the basis for calculating economic social assistance. The Christian People's Party is working for full child care coverage and for prices to be acceptable. We think it is an important tool to combat poverty. The Christian People's Party wants the primary school to be free of charge, without paying for either education, thematic days, cultural services, etc. A system in which excesses are covered as social assistance is not satisfactory and violates this principle. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party where we encourage the Government to continue working on the problem. We ask the Government to promote its own action plan to improve the living conditions of poor families with children. We also ask that the income-tested child allowance for pensioners with child care be increased in the budget for the next year. This group might have the hardest part.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1541	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1544	Children’s families are the group that has had the best overall income trend from 1986 to 1996. Lonely caregivers have also had a positive income trend. Nevertheless, couples with children and lone parents are overrepresented among those with the lowest income seen over time. This applies primarily to families with weak employment ties or who are completely out of the labour market. As the rapporteur pointed out in his statement, there is no shortcut out of this situation experienced by many disadvantaged people. Measures that are effective over time are required. We know that high charges affect everyone. Right wants to reduce taxes and thus ensure that families retain more of their income. It's possible to do something fast. Right wants better income-deduction schemes for the care of children, and we want to ensure that parents have the right to kindergarten by bringing together public support for kindergartens at a price that follows the children of the nursery that their parents choose, regardless of whether they are private or municipal. This will clearly contribute to the increased development of kindergartens, and it will also provide a more varied and diverse range of services in line with the needs of families. Full childcare and reasonable childcare facilities are an important means of combating poverty. The right will continue the cash support scheme for young children’s parents who do not use publicly funded nursery facilities. Parents must be guaranteed the freedom to choose between several care services, and the evaluation of cash support has also shown that it has had a smoothing effect. In order to ensure this freedom of choice, the Right will ensure that municipalities keep cash support outside the income base when measuring social assistance. The economy of families with children has been weakened in the last two years by the fact that the majority did not want to support the proposals of the Right in the budgets for 2000 and 2001 to adjust the level of child benefit. The majority's lack of willingness to adjust prices has cost families and lone dependants expensive. The Bondevik government's draft budget for 2000 provided an overall convergence of 700 million children's families. kr. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party resulted in a total decrease of another 400 million. kr. This was linked to the proposal to include the tax deduction of dependants and to spend part of the money this gave, to extend the amount of child benefit to 18 years. The rates were also reduced as a result of enlargement, and this has also exacerbated the economy of families with children. The Education Act states that primary school should be free of charge and that the school should keep students with the necessary books and teaching materials. The principle of free primary education must mean that the pupils are not to be paid for teaching in the framework of primary education. Municipalities may charge for travel, meals and lodging for voluntary stays, but such stay must be within an economic framework that allows everyone to participate, so that students and parents do not become subject to economic pressure. Of course, everyone wants children to have a safe and healthy upbringing and that no one should have to live in poverty. For this reason, social assistance must be a scheme to contribute when other schemes are not sufficient. A social assistance circular emphasises that children should be taken into account, that they should be able to participate in normal leisure activities, and that camp school stays should not result in promiscuity. As part of the majority, the Right believes that a general minimum rate does not give a better signal of individual family follow-up than the guidance standards we have today. This issue was then dealt with in depth in connection with the Equalisation Communication last year. Many of the measures identified just during the treatment of the Equalisation Communication will help to reduce the differences in living standards between different social groups and improve the economy and living standards for those most disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1559	All batches represented at Stortinget are, in fact, concerned about how to improve the situation of poor families and families with children who, for economic reasons, cannot afford to allow their children to participate in activities. What is, however, the difference between the parties is, of course, how to achieve the most desirable result. It is a fact that these are problems that cannot be solved by constantly increasing economic social assistance, as this is a system that is primarily intended at a transitional stage to help people who have come up with a difficult economic situation. It is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to see this whole issue raised by the representatives of the Socialist Left here, in a context not only to address a number of different proposals promoted in this Document No. The 8 proposal, but sees it in the context of how, for example, may have the persons involved, such as: not having a job, out of work, and how to reduce the large Norwegian tax burden, so that this group also benefits. The constant increases in the electricity charge take place, among other things. directly into the economic situation of these families and exacerbates them. The problems raised are not solved by higher public expenditure due to increases in social assistance rates. Rather, it is necessary to facilitate the motivation of those who have the opportunity to do so for paid work. Charges must be reduced and provision should be made for an increase in housing construction, especially in the Oslo area, in order to reduce the pressure on the housing market in this area. However, it is important that we have arrangements to protect the children, so that they have an opportunity to participate in activities in line with other children. It is also important to encourage children to have the best possible contact with their parents in their childhood, and in this context the cash support has helped to ensure that more parents have been able to stay at home with their children. This has not least benefited children, including through the economic cohesion that has taken place. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that, in the context of the annual social security statements, the Progress Party generally proposes an increase in the basic amount of the population's wealth which is higher than the majority in this Chamber. It is worth noting that a full support supplement for children under the age of 18 is 30 pst. of the basic amount. If the basic amount had been developed in line with the proposals of the Progress Party, this would have meant that the situation for families with dependent children or an old-age pensioner in the social security system would actually have improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1572	First, I would like to mention the suggestions included in the setting. The poverty of children is our responsibility – we who sit here, and those who sit in the Government. Child poverty is an unacceptable and serious attack on propriety and well-being, and it seems that the majority tolerates it. I am ashamed that a well-born and rich country such as Norway is unable to remove child poverty. Unfortunately, I do not register any strong commitment to this matter, and I also notice that several people insinuate that the proposals are a sort of shortcut to remove the child poverty. No, they're not at all! The proposals mention a number of long-term, fundamental measures that need to be taken. This is a matter of immediate action to help those who have the most difficulty. I also find it embarrassing to see that the government is unable or unwilling to help these families and children. Who really do they think will create this society – this good society with little differences? Isn't that us? Why don't they care? And if they care, why don't they do anything? There was only one visit to the health studio with in-patient training that caused representatives of the government to turn around when it came to exemption from VAT. I don't know how many visits to the hospital or to the social services that are needed to resolve this matter, but I recommend representatives from the majority and the government to spend the summer vacation for it. That could be useful information. SV refuses to accept that children should go too lye and cold water. When the indicative rates arrived, the Government said this would be an important measure to remove child poverty. But what did we get when they came? First of all, the goal was gone. There was no boost for the poor. It was a wish, as it is stated in the circular, ‘to contribute to a more consistent practice of measuring financial benefits in municipalities and greater equality in measured social benefits for equal social benefits’. And how's it going if you follow this? Well, then, as we see in Oslo and Bergen, social welfare users lose several thousand dollars a month. So it's all written that it's the government's desire for it to be more equal, and it's getting worse! It gets worse for those who have the worst. So it wasn't an act to help the poor. The grip will make it worse for many. The rates are too low in relation to SIFO's standard budget. So a family of four, with two children, loses over $3,000 a month if we compare it to the SIFO budget. Even leisure equipment for children must be in place within this norm, the majority and the Government clearly believe. ‘Wretched and pitiful’, called the Health and Social Ombudsman of Oslo, Helge Hjort, the bets, and the bourgeois City Council of Oslo refuses to adapt to the norm, saying that it is simply not possible to live on so little money and to lose several thousand dollars per. months. It must be a little awkward to get that message from a civil council. Then to the child's back. It is difficult to understand that the majority do not see the unfairness of the fact that only the poorest are not allowed to retain the value of child welfare. And the worst thing is that they don't see what happens when we have broad, general arrangements that eventually go to everyone else except the very poor ones who need the money. So to what's written about school. I have two write with me here, and both make me quite amazed. One is a newspaper clipping on 31 May, where workers' party politicians demand free primary schools and races for self-payment on school trips, and the other is a proposal for a cross-political compromise between the Central Party on children and the growing-up conditions of young people. In both it says, wake up with the proportion in primary school! But what happens when the proposal comes up to debate and voting in the Storting Week after? It's not possible to get a majority for that. What in the world are people supposed to think we're doing, when we flag one day that's what we want, and the other day it's right down? So the majority say – and it shocks me – that they believe that students who cannot attend camp stays, for example, will receive a different offer of primary education. I get to draw myself into a three-minute post as well, but I just want to complete that sentence. [[The President clubs.]] Does the majority really believe that poor children living in poor families with children should remain in school while others are allowed to go to camp?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1591	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1594	Clearly, child poverty is our responsibility. The centre party took up the theme Differences-Norway in the previous growing period, and then we were told that we were blackpainting and driving crisis maximisation. But on the basis of the debate that was then, the central government promoted the so-called Equalization Communication. In connection with the processing of the Equalization message here in Stortinget, we gave guidance on how a government should follow this up. We note that the current government has not submitted a binding action plan so far. Many of the measures described in the Communication would have allowed the differences in living standards between different groups in society to be mitigated, especially in terms of the economy and living standards of the most disadvantaged. The size of indicative state social assistance standards we believe is far too low set from the Government today, and I'm going to come back a little bit to how this should be calculated. But when we see that the government has followed up that very proposal in the Equalization Communication and has taken the initiative for a stronger standardisation of social assistance, it is regrettable to note that it is so wrong. There is reason to express great concern about the low level, also from the Great Britain pulpit. When we see the reactions from the Right-steered Oslo, among other things. by Mayor Erling Lae, who is shocked by the cuts in social assistance, there should be few bells for quite a few. A family of children with three children under five years of age will receive NOK 7,630 according to the Ministry’s proposal, whereas today in Oslo there is a level of that aid of DKK 11,493, according to Mayor Lae. There's such a big difference that the situation is going from being difficult to get worse for these groups. When we look at the basis for the calculation of norm social assistance, the Center Party wants to keep the child's rights out of it. Child welfare is a general scheme that goes unabated to all families with children. We believe it is completely wrong that the only people who are not going to have to keep this extra performance without testing are the families with children who are the most difficult. It's going to be to completely eliminate the policy impact of distribution, and it's going to go down on those who are the hardest. We therefore believe that the best option is that child welfare is not included in the income base for social welfare. In addition, I point out that we are going to deal with child-rescue legislation later this year, and I expect that we will then come back to this concrete and look at child-rescue in relation to social welfare in that context. In the case of cash support, we have a slightly different view of it. We see no reason to keep the cash support out of this calculation, because we believe the cash support is arranged in a slightly different way. It should go to the families who see themselves earning money to receive cash support in order to have more time with their children. We also see that depositing the cash support in the same way as we want with the child's pension is going to be a mistake, because some of these children in the disadvantaged families will benefit very well from being in kindergarten or getting an offer in line with it, so that they can get social contact and support. We also believe that the whole family will benefit from such an offer, but that means that we should have a kindergarten offer that is designed so that it is cheap or free of charge for these. I also want to mention the school until the end. I think the school offer should be free, so we have a real free elementary school. It also applies to non-school educational activities, such as camp and school trips. In this context, I must remind you that the local economy is very important for the economy of the most disadvantaged families, both in terms of social assistance and the provision of kindergarten and school facilities, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1613	What proposers have included in this document No. The 8 proposal is some of the measures that can take place immediately, and some of the measures that may take place over a short period of time. I want to grasp some of the things that others have been about, and perhaps something that is a little new. In the view of the Left, the proposal for a guide for social assistance is almost a shame. In the left we are deeply concerned, as many people have said, that with the economy of Kommune-Noreg today, and with the proposals for cuts that are in place, it will be possible to frame those who have the least, if the municipalities want to use these direct social assistance rates and thus fall in line. On the left, we invite our elected representatives around the municipality of Norway to keep cash support, child allowances and child welfare out of the way when calculating the social assistance rate. It is a strong call, but we know that this will come under tough priorities in the future. It is important when dealing with a difficult situation in life, either because of illness or lack of work, that you can have an auxiliaries that stand out, that you can use the resources you have to get out of the situation. That's why we in the Left have a vision of a city wage, a community wage. In connection with the Equalization Notice, the Government has asked to make sure that a minimum income is guaranteed when you face a difficult life situation. It's also important what's going on developing reasonable housing. Around the municipality of Norway today there is a gap between municipalities that expand and the House Bank in order to build buildings that are so spacious that, like people who come up in a difficult situation in life, they have the opportunity to get a living. This also applies to those who already have at least one. When it comes to the coordination of auxiliaries, the coordination of Aetat, social security and social services, we always talk about their cooperation. We also know that there will be cooperation in some places, but other places don't work. I and the Left think that now it actually needs another coordination to make this work. When it comes to the use of social assistance and social assistance, I was mildly shocked by what the Prime Minister said in a spontaneous questioning session, when this became a topic. He pointed out that very many of these children were children of immigrants, and that one there had the opportunity to go in with measures also for integration. That's right and good. At the same time, he came to the conclusion that very many of these children were children of drug addicts, and that if parents got more money, they wouldn't go to the children, but to parents and parents' drug abuse. It scared me that our prime minister has that hold, because I and Left believe that all parents, at any rate, have a wish that the children should have the best possible. Rather, we have to put in the aid to parents who have a drug problem, and to the children, instead of saying that one should get less money. I know a lot of parents who have a drug problem, but they set up for their children, because they have a strong desire to do so. The fact that they have a guaranteed income has an economy, means that they also provide for their children, and that they do not give priority to drug abuse. I think one here needs to take different steps to help parents, to strengthen their finances, so that they have the opportunity to do the best for their children. As many have been in the past, it is then a municipal economy, and it is a matter of looking after kindergartens and good schools. But there is also a part of something we can do from Stortinget, the easy way to coordinate the auxiliaries, so that they spend their time, resources and skills helping these parents get out of the situation they're up in, instead of just paying out money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1640	Norwegian children are largely provided with basic material needs. There are no opportunities for a fully-fledged social and participating life in school and leisure that affect our poorest children. I share this problem description with the proposers. I also agree that the situation of some of these children is unacceptable. It is the Government's aim to ensure that all children have a safe and good childhood, including satisfactory material and economic growth conditions. The question of poor children has been discussed in this Chamber in the past, including: in connection with the interpellation of the representative Karin Andersen in February of this year. Since then, the Government has presented the Action Plan for Social and Economic Security. The action plan includes strategies and measures to improve income and living conditions for disadvantaged persons. Children’s families with long-term low incomes are a specific priority target group for the measures in the plan. We know that children who grow up in families where none of the parents are at work, or in mothers or fathers who are lonely and without work ties, are most vulnerable to an increase in poor economic conditions. The Government will therefore give priority to measures aimed at improving the employment relationship. A key objective of the action plan is to support the line of work in employment and social policy. It's a golden opportunity, as the labour market is now. The government will facilitate an inclusive working life with room for all. It is particularly important for children’s dependants to have the opportunity to participate in the labour market in order to provide the best possible growth conditions for their children. The government will pursue a policy that motivates employment rather than social security and that facilitates a working life that also accommodates people who do not have the full ability to work. Trials of long-term wage subsidies have already been initiated for employers who employ people with varying performance due to chronic disorders. The government will consider stepping up this action in the light of our experience. Furthermore, we want more flexible solutions for the combination of work and disability pension. The government will test trials with a lower degree of inadequacy than is the case today, allowing more people to take advantage of their residual working capacity. Furthermore, in the revised national budget, we have proposed to strengthen efforts to ensure that more unemployees return to work, in full-time or part-time, inter alia. by establishing network projects for the reactivation of disability pensioners. As part of the Government’s effort to make education and work more accessible to disabled people, the Government has announced in the revised national budget that from the autumn we will establish a nationwide trial scheme for labour and study rights. I also refer to the attempts at overall municipal responsibility for labour and activation measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, which are under way. Another key strategy of the action plan is to implement a solidarity of housing policies. The government will primarily target housing measures against economically difficult households. Children’s families and young people in the establishment phase are important target groups. Housing standards and housing costs have a major impact on the individual’s life situation. Safe living conditions are often a prerequisite for participation in work and other social arenas, for adults and children. I can mention the further increase in the housing allowance in the House Bank, further improvements in the housing support scheme, increased efforts for the homeless and reduced use of the hostel. The action plan also contains measures to improve public social and health services in order to provide better financial security to those currently excluded. Important measures to improve and target the income protection systems are: increase in the social security contribution of the people, better opportunities for participation in education and work for single dependants, including better financing of vocational training for single dependants, better support for child care for single dependants with disabled children, financial security for young unaccompanied sick persons, qualification aid for newly arrived immigrants; With regard to the trend towards increasing parental pay in school, the Minister of Education has on several occasions expressed his concern that pupils are being excluded from activities due to the economy of their parents. He has therefore taken the initiative of a study to take a closer look at the situation, as a basis for proposing measures to exclude no children from activities. It is the Government's absolute opinion that primary school should be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1689	When I listen to this debate, I wonder if people have really taken in on how serious the situation is for the poor kids, and I am horrified by the uncommitted here and the wait and look attitude that several show. In a few weeks the school ends, and expectant kids can take vacations, maybe experience new things, exotic things that they can tell the others about when they get back. Then there's someone who can't, because the parents can't afford it. They may not even have the money to send them on a small vacation. They're excluded from the social community, and it's particularly bad in a society that every day tells you that you're what you consume. Then you can talk all you want about values, but it's not a believer if you're not willing to take the measures that can get kids out of poverty. How we treat the poor kids says a lot about the real values and human vision of society. For us in SV, it's simple: all kids are as much worth, and all of us are born with dreams of a life of dignity. So it's easy to do something to give these kids a start where they and their parents can keep their dignity and thus use their resources – if we want to. I record that it is not willful, nor at the Workers' Party, which went out high on the track last autumn. It was, but not now. Now the government is more concerned with giving market forces more power than doing something for the poor kids. It is particularly bad when poor kids are excluded from important Community arenas such as kindergartens, SFOs and school. It creates bigger differences, because these are important development venues for the kids. This is why SV has proposed maximum rates for kindergartens and SFOs, and we will continue to do so until the Storting agrees with us that this is important to do. That is why we propose that the excesses in the school should be eliminated. And it's not like we don't know anything about these peculiarities. We know it's $207 million. I'll get them out of here. There's not much money in this rich society. Participation in a cultural activity under the direction of the school is an important part of the education. It says something about the majority's vision of knowledge, human vision and the view of learning when they're not willing to do anything about the peculiarities in practice. Faggots don't hold, it's action that has to be done. I think it's going to be pathetic when the majority won't keep child welfare away from social welfare. For the poorest, then, child-smokers must be tested. And tomorrow, the majority of the population probably decide that child-restraint should be subtracted when it's calculated what it's reasonable for a divorce child to cost. We know that the poorest kids often live with a poor mother. This is outrageous. Creating equivalent opportunities and the right to participate places great demands on the distribution policy. Joining our proposals for immediate action is a test of whether the parties are serious, or whether child poverty remains a theme of the celebrations, and only there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1706	First, child welfare and its coordination with social assistance. In a circular from the Department, it is true that the rates are indicative, so they are completely non-obligatory. Why have you actually sent them out then, you can ask yourself, if no one is going to follow them. But what's said here is that it's going to be curtailed for child welfare, cash support and one-off social assistance, and that probably means that it's going to help a little bit what we encourage our party colleagues around to do, as long as it's written in a roundabout manner. Because there's a shell there. So the council repeats what was said by the Workers' Party here instead that the working line is important. Yes, SV agrees. Many measures have been proposed. Many of them are good, but I would also like to remind you that the Workers' Party has strongly opposed it when SV has proposed that those who are unemployed should be offered an opportunity to take action or to increase their competence after four weeks. We know that will work. In addition to that, they will receive a daily allowance. So what the Workers' Party says is kind of not related, for every time there are proposals for measures that will just improve the situation with regard to getting people to work, the Workers' Party says no. In the budget, they also cut down on the measures. Then there's someone who's thought that the hospit is bad. And that's it. Hospitals are cruel, and children at the hospital are public child abuse. Last year, Stortinget decided that this would end. In the long-term message, the government took a step back and said that it should now be reduced. I do not know the reason for this is that you have checked out who is at the hospital. And so they're not our children, but they're mostly children for asylum seekers and refugees. Most of them are Somali children. Is that why we are now satisfied that the use should only be reduced? There's no reason not to do this in an hour. There are hotels. This is one of the measures we can implement with a decision here, and it can be put into effect immediately. Such an action need not be delayed at all. So to some of the other things that have been mentioned here, especially this about school. I would again challenge the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party to say what they really mean by their remark in the position where they say that students who cannot afford to attend camp school, and ‘who for various reasons do not want to participate in camp school stays, are offered a different offer of primary school education’. What do you really mean by a comment like that? Are these kids supposed to be left in school and not get in? I believe that this demonstrates and clearly shows that you have not understood what this is about, namely that these kids are not to be shut out from the usual kids are to be allowed to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05.ana.ud1884e1723	Then is the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting. We will continue to deal with this matter at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox
