ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e80	The reason why I take the floor as rapporteur on the matter is the minority proposal from the Progress Party. But since I'm standing here, I also want to point out that one thing in Norway is to be right, another thing is to be right. And with this proposal, for which it is fortunately a majority, one differentiates the court fee so that it becomes more reasonable to bring a case before the court system, if one manages to stay within a rational handling of the case over one day. But, as the Storting is familiar with, there are many other challenges to getting their case through in relation to the cost level, which we do not affect in this legislative amendment. There is also another point in relation to this legislative amendment as a whole point of justice, and I would also like to emphasise it here. It is the challenge now facing the major civil cases in many courts in Norway that the costs of operating through these cases are not actually reflected by the fee mechanism. You should be able to take a closer look at that. Heavy cases in which both parties operate with more than SEK 1⁄2 billion in legal proceedings, including: in Stavanger City Law, it should also be possible to contribute to covering some of these costs to the public when cases take place for half a year to one year, with lots of documents, etc. We ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with this, or, alternatively, to take a closer look at this issue through the settings of the Dispute Goals Committee. Then to the proposals of the Progress Party. It may now seem pleasant to start pointing to groups that are not paying legal fees. Attention has been drawn to the cases of injury to patients and also to cases relating to the review of administrative decisions. The background for a majority to this effect is, among other things: that this is an inappropriate way of solving the problem, because legal aid legislation is in place, among other things. also grants exemptions from legal fees where necessary. This can be tried both in terms of administrative matters and in relation to the patient injury cases. The second is that I don't think everyone agrees that all patient injuries and all administrative cases where individuals are parties should be exempt from legal fees. There may be quite a resource-intensive person bringing in such cases and who will not be subject to any exemption. The last element that does not address the solution chosen by the Progress Party is, to a large extent, of a more demarcational nature. It will be not only bureaucratic but also difficult to define as proposed by the Progress Party in relation to patient injury and administrative decisions. That is why the majority has not accepted the present proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e101	The Progress Party supports the intention to differentiate the legal fee, and we agree that it will be a good principle – to which we subscribe. Then the question is whether we in Norway can avoid a few exceptions from this differentiation, if you feel that you need it. In particular, there are two areas where the hearing bodies have also addressed this issue. One relates to personal injury – I assume that it was what the case-rapporteur meant to refer to, and not to patients’ injuries – how especially LO has been concerned that these are issues that are very important for individuals, who in themselves can also take a few days in main negotiations, and can therefore get a certain amount of fee burden. And it would be very unfortunate if cases of personal injury were not dealt with because those who have suffered such damage do not feel that they have the opportunity to take the financial consequences of a chargeable nature. Another issue is the ability of individuals to exercise their rights in relation to public administrative decisions. This is precisely a valve that is very important in a situation where the public both creates the legislation, manages it and ultimately determines how it is to be practised. Then a court-martial is very important. Now it's also so that the legal side here can hardly be very difficult. It is quite possible to calculate this when you see what the case contains, and you can also see what is actually being treated. Costlyly, this is estimated at NOK 600 000 in relation to administrative decisions and not so much more than a few million in relation to personal injuries, so I am at least wondering that there should be a problem for the Treasury, although it can clearly be a big problem for the individuals it deals with. With this in mind, I take up our proposal, which is referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e114	André Kukkestad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e117	I will carefully link two brief comments to this matter. Firstly, as regards the fact that, in its position on the proposal, the Committee asks the Ministry to return to the Stortinget, alternatively through the work of the Committee on Disputes, in order to assess whether the procedural costs of the courts in resource-intensive and long-term matters, in particular between traders, should be more closely reflected in the legal fee, the Ministry will come back to this in connection with the work of the Committee on Disputes in the examination of the civil procedure. From the point of view of the Judicial Committee, it appears that, except for the Advance Party, all agree on the proposed amendments to the Law on Judicial Fee. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party consider that a differentiation of the legal fee in cases of personal injury and cases involving individual installations in order to have the administrative decision reviewed could give adverse results, and propose that such cases be exempted from the rules on the differentiation of the legal fee. It has been assessed whether there is a need to derogate from the rules on differentiation for this type of case, but no reason was found. It is assumed that the proposal will not result in the legal fee being so high that it could be legally negligent in the large number of cases in which the main negotiation lasts only one day or two. For one-day cases, the legal fee will be reduced in all instances in relation to current rates. Furthermore, reference is made to the law on legal fees which provides for the exemption of fees for certain types of cases, irrespective of the economy of the parties, as well as to the law on free legal aid which provides a further basis for the freedom to provide fees when the conditions of the law are fulfilled. In addition, a proposal such as that promoted by the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party could provide a more complex provision which could also open up disputes concerning the matters covered by the exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e128	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e142	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e158	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e174	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group of parties and following any comments from other members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e185	Inner. O. No 3 for 2001-2002, which deals with the tax regime, shows that there is a broad majority for a number of areas addressed by both the Bondevik II Government and the previous Stoltenberg Government, while distinguishing layers of some others, especially in tax areas with strong distributive significance. I would like to address the Workers' Party's proposals for tax arrangements, proposals where the Workers' Party stands alone or with others. A number of studies have shown that income in Norway has become more and more disparate between the 1980s and 1990s. Most of this increased income gap has occurred in the 1990s. The main reason for this is the strong growth in income among the tenths of those with the highest income, which is directly responsible for the sharp increase in share yields and realisable gains during that period. What is also evident is that income growth has been weak among those with low incomes. Now the Bondevik II government is adding up to eliminate the dividend tax. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have joined this process, which, for example, will provide the hundreds of people with the highest income over 1.5 million. kr in tax relief. The 3,000 persons with the highest income receive a tax relief of on average NOK 190 000, while income of less than DKK 300000 is zero in tax relief. The Labour Party has been criticised for breach of contract because we do not now go in to remove the dividend tax. One must be aware that the precondition for the removal of the dividend tax by the Workers' Party was that a new and better system of taxes on production and capital was put in place. Only then could we remove the dividend tax and possibly the sharing model. For example, in its proposals for changes to the rules on the taxation of options in employment, the government provides additional tax relief for those who have the most history. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are now in favour of further liberalisation which reintroduces a tax credit primarily to the benefit of managers and high-wages. Nor did the Bondevik II government find room for removing the investment levy until 1 October 2002, despite the fact that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left strongly criticised the government of Stoltenberg to postpone the removal of the investment tax when the State budget was presented. In this area, the Bondevik II Government has given a different priority to the removal of the investment levy. Also for Bondevik, this time this was more important than following a decision on the size of the store or an agreement with other parties. The position of the majority is characterised by a number of decisions which are being distributed in the wrong direction. Despite promises made in writing before the elections, the government parties and the Progress Party are going against increased deductions from the trade union quota up to NOK 1800 – perhaps not so much, but it is a serious signal when considering that tax relief is granted up to DKK 3,4 billion in total. I had expected the laborers to be more satisfied with the government parties and the Progress Party. In this additional budget, the Bondevik II Government presents new estimates for economic development. The estimate changes result in an increase in revenues of a total of DKr 1.2 billion. The working party is amazed that this increased space for action by the government parties is no longer focused on those who have the least in our society. The working party will also use this targeted and raise the rate of the minimum deduction from 22 to 24 p.m., which will provide tax relief for those who have less than NOK 195 000 in income. The Bondevik II government gives tax relief to those who have over that sum. Furthermore, pensioners with low and medium pensions receive a significant tax relief. A single pensioner with NOK 150000 in pension income will receive a tax relief of NOK 2200. The Labour Party is in favour of a variety of measures that affect the weakest people in our society. The most important aspect of the Workers' Party is the extensive development of the welfare society for all. It is the most important response to poverty. Our tax system must have some main objectives. It shall provide for an economic policy based on work for all and a fair distribution, it shall further develop the Norwegian welfare society and contribute to sustainable development. It's demanding. At the same time, it is essential that the tax system itself be designed in such a way as to ensure the allocation of resources, as the Norwegian welfare model is known for. Fairness and broad disintegration of a relatively large public sector mean that those with the largest actual income are to contribute most to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e208	Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e211	About a year ago, tax increases were adopted in this room, which lack parallels in Norwegian history. Norway was about to become a different tax policy country. Mr Hildeng, the tax spokesman of the Labour Party, also said in the debate: ‘The government’s tax regime is bold and addresses important tax policy challenges. It responds to the challenges facing the welfare society, in the sense that it provides a basis for increased income,...’;» In this statement there is probably some of the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party. While the Right believes that we should have competitive, i.e. lower, taxes and taxes to increase the growth power of the economy, in order to improve the welfare society, the Labour Party believes that extending the tax base and increasing the level of taxation is the way to get more money for the welfare community — including in the long term. However, the interesting thing is that this year the Labour Party has realised that they were on wild roads last year and are proposing a reduction in the level of taxation this year. But it had to be a government consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to get a budget with a new tax policy heading. The Sem declaration has clear ambitions for tax relief. The 2002 budget is the first stage, and the government has come a long way in three weeks. The Progress Party believes it is far too small, but even the chairman of the Finance Committee, Siv Jensen, believes it is a step in the right direction. In the financial debate last week, there was a discussion between the Labour Party and the Right parliamentary leaders about the fact that it really is so that all income groups get better at the proposals of the cooperation parties. The correct thing is that for income in the two lowest income classes, i.e. for all with gross income up to NOK 120000, equal to the arrangements of the Workers' Party and the Cooperation Party. However, for all revenues beyond this, the arrangements of the cooperation parties will be better addressed, according to the Statistical Central Bureau model for calculating distribution effects. Reduced house tax, removal of air passenger charges and VAT on vehicle training more than compensates for the fact that the Workers' Party has invested a little more than us in increased minimum deductions. In other words, no one comes out worse with the co-operation parties' tax arrangements than with the Labour Party's arrangements, and eight out of ten Nordics come out better. This means that those with very common revenues, even those with relatively low incomes, will have significant tax relief with the arrangements put forward by the cooperating parties – also compared to the adjusted tax regime proposed by the Workers’ Party. But it was probably not to expect the Workers' Party to compete with us in this area either! I've said that before, and I like to repeat it: I'm glad that the Co-operation Board is fulfilling the Workers' Party's promises last year to remove double taxation of dividends when they couldn't do it by themselves. It is always interesting to note that the Workers' Party is opposed to what they have been for before. For example, in the context of a Document No, the Financial Committee said: Proposal 8 in 1998: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, refers to the Ministry’s thorough review of the negative consequences for the Norwegian economy and ownership of the introduction of double taxation of dividends.’ That is quite right, and the Labour Party should also have followed now. Housing tax has been and is a sweet topic of debate. It also shows classic dividing lines and positions. The cooperation agency raises the bottom deduction to NOK 80000 and does not increase the equation value by 5 pst. The Labour Party is against this, and the Advance Party goes much further in relief. In our course, Stortinget decided that the equation value of dwellings should be limited to 30 pst. of the value in turnover. If the fare had risen, you could complain. In this context, the Stoltenberg Government proposed to establish a register in each municipality of the valuers to be used in the event of a complaint on a tariff basis. I ask the Government to note that the majority of the Finance Committee, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, find no reason to increase bureaucracy on this point. We see no reason to set up such a register, as both real estate agents and valuers should be able to issue tariffs for the determination of equivalency. Not all finance ministers will have a provision of the tax law named after them. I think Schjøtt-Pedersen will get it – lex Schjøtt-Pedersen. It assumes that the tax benefits of residence rules for national politicians from Finnmark and Nord-Troms can be waived. A unanimous committee now opens the possibility that these people can pay more taxes if they want to. After what I've seen in the newspapers in the last few days, it doesn't seem like a rush of politicians will take advantage of this access. Even SV, who in other issues relating to conditions for depositors, has gone high both from this pulpit and from the media, says that they will not take advantage of it. Is there a difference here between life and learning? In many of the proposals available, there are three proposals in three directions. The Labour Party is largely in agreement with SV and the Center Party on one side, the Progress Party on the other side, and the cooperation parties are in the middle. But in a few areas, this pattern differs. Is it the exception that confirms the rule? One is the reduction of taxes on spirits, where the Workers' Party goes beyond the Cooperative Government and lowers the levy by 17,5 pst., against our proposal of 15 pst. The second is the proposal to increase the rate of the minimum deduction. Here the Centre Party and the Coast Party go the farthest, and where the Progress Party has not actually said yes to a tax relief for those with the lowest incomes to which all the other parties have agreed. I didn't think I was going to experience that. Finally, on an incurrence, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left have forgotten to promote three suggestions in the vote. The proposals have been commented on and taken into account in the budget, but the actual proposals for decisions are missing. I take up the proposals No. 16, 17 and 18, as well as the suggestions made by these parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e251	Heidi Larssen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e256	Right-wing is a business-friendly batch, using its tax and tax measures to support it. At the same time, one sees that to finance it, everything that has to do with regional development will be cut short. It applies to SND, both to the early stage scheme and to the high risk loan scheme, to municipal industrial funds, and to regional development funds. The question is: Does Right believe that these tax breaks can help business especially in the districts, and that this is good enough to compensate for what is being cut? I see in today's GD, a Lillehammer newspaper, a statement about Waggan municipality, which now has major problems with business. They've had a municipal nutrition fund before. Now they have applied for NOK 800,000 because a large furniture factory with a lot of jobs is about to go up there. In his reply, the Minister of State refers to these tax breaks, among others. removal of the air passenger charge and also of the dividend tax. Yes, what help is there for a business company that is far above Weighing, in that one removes the air passenger fee? I think you should look a little bit closer on the map. The dividend tax should also explain Right and how it can affect business. When it was introduced, a screening was provided in such a way that if one takes a dividend and reinvests in another business, there will be no dividend tax. In other words, this is no argument for the dividend tax to lock up capital. The question is: Does the Right believe that these fiscal and tax measures that they outline are good enough for the innovation companies and other companies that are out in the district of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e265	Yes, we believe that tax relief is the way to go in order to improve the business environment, both in the districts and in the central districts. We have, as I said in my post, not come far enough with this. Based on the Sem statement, we'll go even further and make it even better for business, but we've come a long way. There is probably also some difference between the Workers' Party and the Cooperation Parties. We believe that companies and individuals know how to use the money for the benefit of jobs, for businesses and for themselves, and that not everything has to go into the public fund, which is then going to deliver again. It is not just the state that should know and know which measures and businesses to support. In fact, we believe that the companies are doing so much to make this investment for the benefit of the companies, the jobs and hence the people. So we think the elimination of double taxation of dividends on shares is not unsocial, rather the opposite. We believe that we need capital that can be put into new jobs, and the best social policy we know is to create jobs. We are probably also of the opinion that Norway needs more capitalists, not fewer, and that we need more private capitalists, not just state capitalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e272	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e275	The progress party is dedicated to getting a lower, flatter and simpler tax system than what we have today. We see this as a means of creating greater economic freedom, creating more value, and thus laying the foundation for better welfare for the individual. Our tax proposals will also reduce the public administrative costs of tax collection and allow more people to stand on their own financially. Especially those with low incomes wear today with a excessive tax burden. Therefore, the main profile of the 2002 Progress Party's income tax regime is the introduction of higher deductions and minimum deductions, which will have the greatest impact on those with low incomes. So it's not right, as the previous speaker from the Right tried to make it, that we don't do anything for them with the low income. On the contrary, it's the ones that are the highest priority with us. The point of progress is positive that the entry point for the top tax in Class 1 is increased to NOK 320000, but this tax still frames approx. 740 000 employees. The government has not proposed changing the top 2 entry point, and this means a real tightening of the top 2 tax, which we cannot accept. We therefore propose raising the peak tax entry point to NOK 350000 in Class 1 and NOK 403,000 in Class 2. The so-called 'fisherman's and'seafarer's allowance has remained unchanged at DKK 70 000 since 1992. By applying the average annual salary since 1992 and the estimated salary increase for 2001–02, the deduction would be approximately DKK 105 000. This has exacerbated the economic conditions of Norwegian seafarers and has probably contributed to the fact that today we have fewer seafarers than we would otherwise have. We want the first deduction to be increased to NOK 85 000. The special deduction for older people has also not been regulated for several years. Also this year, the government proposes a continuation of the deduction of NOK 17 640, which means a real decrease in the value of the deduction. The Progress Party believes that older and disabled people will return to the loss of several years of regulation, and will propose that the deduction be set at NOK 25 000. In the case of property taxes, it is the clear hold of the Progress Party that this is an unfortunate double taxation that should be removed. The high taxes on wealth in Norway also increase the risk of foreign purchases of Norwegian industry, because the tax on wealth usually makes it cheaper to own Norwegian enterprises from abroad than from Norway. The taxes on wealth also make it possible for owners to be forced to withdraw capital from businesses in order to pay taxes. For individuals, property taxes represent an increasing proportion of total taxation. This box lets you save and save money on your hard disk. We believe that a rapid decrease in property taxes is necessary, and we therefore propose that the State wealth tax be halved from 2002 onwards by exempting all assets under 800,000 in Class 1 and 830,000 in Class 2 from State property taxes, and reducing the tax on wealth in addition to these amounts by 25 pst. The party of progress is in favour of the Cooperative Government being in favour of a reduction in the taxing of the advantage of own-dwelling. This is a matter for which the Progress Party has for a long time stood alone to fight for. The building is purchased for money that is already taxed, while different types of fees have been paid for the purchase of materials for the building. We want the taxing of the benefit of bo to be removed over four years, and we therefore propose a reduction of 25 pst. for the financial year 2002. It also considers it important to reduce the tax burden on enterprises, because a free, independent and value-creating business depends on this in order to be able to compete in a competitive market. Business and individuals are exposed to a number of types of taxes, and it is the sum of these that largely determine whether companies are competitive. If Norway is at a tax level higher than that of our competitors, this will open up to a reduction in value creation in Norway. A peculiarly high level of taxation will also lead to a flow of capital and thus to the loss of Norwegian jobs and rising unemployment. Of course, we also know that a development of rising unemployment can be very difficult to turn around if we do not act quickly. The Progress Party also takes a considerable distance from the tax reform of its divisional model which favours passive ownership at the expense of the active. It was also considered worrying that Norway is using so much lower a share of gross domestic product for research and development than the OECD average. It is primarily private research that is smaller in Norway than in other countries that it is natural to compare with. Research and development is an investment for the future, and we therefore believe that each krona invested in R & D will give more back in terms of increased value creation. We are therefore in favour of tax incentives to boost R & D, and therefore fully support the Hervik committee's proposal where companies are subtracted from 25 pst. of R & D expenditure. Therefore, the lot of progress is against the limits in relation to the size of the enterprise and the percentage proposed by the Government. The bulk of progress is in favour of the improved option taxation proposed by the Cooperative Government. Improvements in option taxation include: important for the development of knowledge-based enterprises where an additional incentive in addition to normal remuneration is necessary. Option arrangements can therefore help companies to keep their wage costs down, which may be particularly important in a start-up phase. In the case of an option allocation, the trend will be that the company is doing well and increasing excess. This would be a better arrangement than for the leaders to be given a ‘parachute’ when the company goes bad, as we have seen some examples of. We strongly regret the proposed tax tightening both for a company car and for driving goods. The tax sharpening works both slightly thoughtful and poorly justified. The proposal implies that the template rule for the benefit of private use of a company car should be increased from 10,000 km to 13 000 km per. years. This increase is justified by the fact that the journey distance by passenger car is 13 500 km per. years. But on this average there are both professional driving and driving between home and work. This means that an increase of 13 000 km will result in the addition of a tax on a higher-than-average private car, which is clearly unparalleled. The party of progress is, of course, opposed to this tax tightening. At the same time, the Government proposes tax consolidation using a private car for professional driving by starting the preferential tax treatment already at 4000 km. It seems here that the Government has focused on the variable cost of car maintenance and not that car maintenance also entails fixed costs. Many who depend on a private car in their job, e.g. home care/home caregivers, have had to invest in car no. 2 in the family to be able to do their job. When the Government now changes these arrangements for the use of a private car in work, this may reduce recruitment to such a profession. The progress party would therefore like to keep the taxing of mileage tax as it is. We welcome the fact that the Government proposes to reverse some of the constraints that occurred in the autumn of 1999 and 2000 when it applies to depreciation on various means of operation. However, as Norway still has less favourable depreciation rates than our neighbouring countries, it is necessary to go further and reverse this whole contraction. The Progress Party therefore proposes that all depreciation rates be set at 1999 levels. This includes, inter alia: increase in the depreciation rates for the balancing groups (c) and (d), which include, respectively, trucks and manufacturing machinery. In the light of this review, I would like to re-examine the amendment proposed by the Financial Committee by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e305	Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e309	We in SV were happy last year when we finally got multiple numbers in this room to introduce tax on dividends on shares on the recipient's hand. Finally, we came across the idea that the greatest injustice in the tax reform for 1992 was the large difference in taxes on labour and taxes on capital, and that the main reason why the differences in Norway have increased throughout the 1990s is that capital income is unevenly distributed and that they have also had very favourable taxation. Unfortunately, the Co-operation Government in this budget is proposing to abolish this scheme. We in SV thought it was serious. It puts Norway in a very special situation internationally, because all the countries with which we can compare, with the exception of one or two countries throughout the OECD region, have this tax, which is actually reasonable to have. That tax-free dividends are the single reason why the differences are increasing here in the country, was thoroughly documented by the previous government in which the Christian People's Party was a member, through the anti-dithering message. That the Christian People's Party is now taking away the most precise tool to tax those who have the most back to bear it, we think we're very sorry. The distribution profile by extinguishing dividends is simply very poor. So it's like those who are the richest of us have great pleasure in it. The Ministry of Finance itself has calculated that if one allocates the tax reduction on a structured basis to dividends, the 84 Nordics who paid dividends in 1999 will receive an average tax burden of 1.7 million. kr. This is in stark contrast to what is done for the poor. SV suggests, as you know, that the share tax should be passed on and tightened up, but that is obviously not enough to achieve a good distribution profile. Should a drive be redistributed, a system of good and accurate measures must be provided for those who have the least. The tax profile in the SV's proposal is such that they with income less than NOK 300000 receive tax relief with our scheme. We're going to go on to link the limits of top taxes to the basic amount of the population's population, G. This means increasing the entry point for step 1 by approx. NOK 20 000, while the step 2 entry point is reduced. This gives us, along with parts of it increase the capital tax, we use to increase the bottom off. We increase the minimum deduction limit to NOK 49 500, and we set the deduction limit to 23 pst. We're increasing the pay off from today's NOK 31,800 to NOK 36,100. This would be particularly beneficial for low-paid workers. To get a fairer distribution of the tax burden between labour input and capital input, we also go into SV to increase the general tax rate from 28 to 29 pst. This will result in an increase in the value of the interest deduction. Parts of this additional proceeds we use to remove parts of the document fee and to create a system of differentiated annual car charges. We also increase the tax base to NOK 200,000. We have behind us a election campaign in the fall that had a lot of attention on tax bills, and almost a competition in sports was: how much would a high tax raise? But what we should be aware of is that the top tax is, to a large extent, a man's tax. 97 pst. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1999 the figure was below the figure of NOK 300 000, well below the limit which is now being multiplied as the maximum tax limit. Then it's my humble claim that if several women were involved in the debate on tax laws, one would have given more attention to the low incomes above that with top taxes. It's easy, for example. by increasing the bottom subtraction, an incentive for those with low incomes to work more. Studies show that changes in taxes and income by reducing or removing peak taxes have little to say for those already in full employment. They're the people who initially think the least, and there's a lot of women who can stimulate them to work more through tax havens. Here there is a significant potential to increase the supply of work, and there is SV input. SV also opposes the Government's proposal to facilitate the taxation of employment options. Liberalisation has clear and unfortunate aspects: a tax credit is reintroduced that primarily benefits corporate leaders and the high-wage. In several ways, people's dissatisfaction with the increased leadership wages has been expressed. Experiences, including: In the United States, option schemes mean a great deal to the wage developments of the leaders, and they reinforce the difference between leaders and ordinary workers. This government proposal will lead to tax relief for those who redeem or sell options, and a lower taxation of options will encourage increased use of such schemes. Thus, the differences in Norway will be reinforced. SV also reacts negatively to the fact that the government of Bondevik halves the trade union deduction compared to the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg. This means we're showing a clearly negative attitude to the unions, and we think it's strange that a room for this has not been found within a frame where a tailor of having found room for additional 3.4 billion dollars in treasures. When it comes to industrial research, SV has decided to continue the so-called FUNN scheme, and we're increasing it by 400 million. kr in our alternative budget rather than going to the creation of a tax incentive scheme, as proposed by the Government. The FUNN scheme has only existed for half a year, but it is very successful. It's tough, it's unbureaucratic, it's low resource requirements and fast. Norway is at the bottom when looking at innovation initiatives, compared to other OECD countries. On this very background, the FUNN scheme was created, under the leadership of the Research Council and the SND. In record time, 400 enterprises have concluded two, three and four-year contracts with the external research environment. In the worst case, many of these companies now have to interrupt their research and development projects. This isn't just bad luck, but it's also very little long term. An incentive scheme works much better than a tax incentive because many of these companies do not have the liquidity needed to enter into long-term research projects. Small and medium-sized enterprises are largely driven by available liquidity. The proposed tax incentive scheme only produces performance effects but has no liquidity support to cover project costs. It also takes a relatively long time from putting money into R & D until it returns a positive cash flow. A cash injection could therefore be decisive as to whether or not a research enterprise can be started at all. Very many of the questions raised by the financial committee this autumn have addressed this particular issue. Many small and medium-sized enterprises cannot benefit from tax incentive schemes because they do not have the liquidity needed to meet the negative cash flow that a FUNN scheme will bring with them. Many of the companies indicate that they had not been able to purchase research services from the institute sector before the FUNN scheme, because the traditional tool through the Research Council did not capture part of these project and development proposals. So, through the FUNN scheme, one has been closed down in increasing the research effort in the business community, and one has reached the enterprises that would not normally be included in the ordinary programs. Otherwise, I'd just like to comment on this further with good framework conditions. In recent years, government budgets have seen quite a change in depreciation rates. This gives little attention to the situation. It is important to operate with a depreciation time reflecting the actual depreciation. In the financial setting, SV asked the Government to submit a proposal for a review of the depreciation rates with this objective. But unfortunately, it didn't get multiples. Finally, just a comment on what seems to be the new government's policy rule: that the public's share of the resources in society should not increase. This means we're letting the dogmatic take full advantage of it. For SV, the starting point is that we need to assess what the community is responsible for solving, and then organise the tasks in the best possible way. The Norwegian tax system is devolved, the ones that tend the most to pay the largest share of tax. This is a central part of the Norwegian welfare state's foundation, and it is this SV wants to continue and strengthen in our economic approach for the next year. I will record the SV's suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e345	Hilde Grande Røys has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e348	Today's debate is a follow-up and follow-up to the debate and decisions in Stortinget on Tuesday and Wednesday last week. Today, the Executive Board shall adopt the legislative amendments necessary to comply with the adopted budget. However, there are some areas that deserve to be mentioned also in Odelstinget. The Government Parties propose to continue the maximum deduction of the trade union quota, the deduction of gifts to certain non-governmental organisations and the deduction of the membership quota to business organisations of DKK 900 in 2002. From the Christian People's Party, we would like to stress that it is important and central to facilitate non-governmental organisations. And I see it as very positive that there have been signals from the Government to continue working on various measures that can improve the financial framework conditions for non-governmental organisations, among others. through the possibility of deduction of income from gifts. Another area that concerns most people is the Equations Tariffs for real estate, i.e. house and home. The purpose of the co-operation administration is to remove the benefit tax in order to live in your own house over the next four years. Charges for real estate will still be necessary as long as the tax on wealth is maintained. The special deduction for those who take out an old age pension or receive a statutory disability benefit/pension will be increased to NOK 1530 per year. month, i.e. NOK 18 360 per year. years. This special deduction for age and disability has a good and important social significance. Depreciation rates are a very important part of the framework conditions for business. Depreciation rates must reflect the real value decrease over time. Therefore, as technological developments progress forward, it is necessary to assess the level of rates at different times. The principle of actual depreciation must have a lasting impact. Another area that means a great deal to innovation and further development in business is the possibility of deductions from tax offset for research and development. The proposed changes to the demarcation rules to benefit from this scheme are significantly better than those proposed by the Stoltenberg Government. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, there would have been too tight a framework for many companies if the proposal by the government of Stoltenberg had remained standing. This scheme will strengthen the incentives for investment in R & D by enterprises. By raising the ceiling on the size of the activities to be subject to the right to deduct, one can no longer follow the references to the Accounting Act, paragraphs 1 to 6, because this means that, under the ceiling on the number of employees, the public limited liability company will be able to benefit from the scheme. This has been taken into account in the legal design. Norway is low in the share of GDP in research and development statistics. This is due, inter alia, to: research efforts by industry have been relatively low. With this arrangement, we hope there will be a change for the better in this area. In the context of the value-added reform, a general exemption for educational services was adopted. This derogation also includes leisure education. However, driving training was not included in the exception. Government parties also propose to exempt driving training from VAT, so that educational services will in general be exempt from VAT. Driving training through traffic schools helps to provide young drivers with knowledge and understanding of traffic. Extensive driving training is investment in the competence and safety of young drivers. The VAT exemption will stimulate training through driving schools. Most young people who take driving training are schoolchildren and students. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important that the VAT exemption for driving training is a good tax relief for young people and their families. In the context of the Government’s proposal to wind up the air passenger charge from 1 April 2002, there is no longer any basis for maintaining the favourable special scheme for aviation zero rate in the VAT system. The conversions must be seen together and they provide overall relief for aviation. Today, health services are exempt from the general VAT. Several alternative treatments are covered by the exemption for healthcare. The Sem statement states that the Government will provide a major message on alternative medicine. For the Christian People's Party, it is positive that efforts are being made to extend the VAT base for healthcare. The government proposes as it is known to remove the double taxation of dividends on shares. It was clear from the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties for 2001 that the dividend tax would only apply for 2001. Now, the Co-operation Board follows up the agreement. The double taxation of dividends on shares is one of several stages in obtaining risk capital for business. This is what we in the Christian People's Party think is right and important. This means strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian private ownership, while helping to ensure that profits in enterprises can be invested in good nutrition projects that maximise the value of society. I would point out that the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left propose to increase the rate of the minimum deduction to 23 pst in the adjustment of the Government's budget. This will mean lower average taxes for approx. One million taxpayers. So finally, we need to renew, simplify and streamline the public sector. This must aim at ensuring good services and the best possible well-being for all. Individuals shall be assured that they receive the public services they require when they need them. The Christian People's Party will have a public sector that is user-oriented, service-oriented, efficient and tailored to the very different needs and wishes of its citizens. One of the measures that can contribute to this is the outsourcing of certain tasks. Municipalities have no VAT on self-produced services. If it is really to be possible to outsource certain services, the purchase of services from private enterprises must have the same competitive conditions as public self-production of services. We propose to extend the VAT compensation system to clean-up from 1 January 2002. For the Christian People's Party, there is a limit on which public services there are that can be put out of competition. It must be primarily technical services and services that have concrete, measurable results. It is important to maintain a high quality of public services. Efficiency and competitive outsourcing will be able to release resources in the form of money and labour for important public welfare tasks or core tasks such as child protection, training and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e387	Tax is an important issue of distribution. That's why, in the Labour Party, we have given the most tax relief to those who think the least, while the Christian People's Party has given priority to giving the tax relief to those who think the most. The 3,000 with the highest income will receive a tax return of 1.5 million. NOK, while those with an income of less than NOK 300000 receive nothing. It is clear that this tax element, which the Christian People's Party prioritises, is affecting the industry in the districts, because when one is giving priority to that sector with tax laws, there is less money for SND. And the toughest ones are the small businesses that may not be established, which may be newly established, but which need a little more support – they get severe cuts. So it's hard for the districts to get the tax bill that the Christian People's Party has given them. There are a lot of small businesses saying that that tax haven can't in any way offset it as a loss in return from the state. But it's a treasure the Christian People's Party could be doing a little better for ordinary people, and it's a deduction from the union quota, as the government of Stoltenberg raised to 1800. 'No,' said the Christian People's Party, 'at least we shall not accept the ordinary!' In the election campaign, Bondevik said that the size of the tax bill that Right would give was not relevant to the Christian People's Party. Now we heard Heidi Larssen say the answer is tax-free, what is the question! Does not the Christian People's Party feel uncomfortable with this tax haven that is so hard for the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e398	It's no big surprise that the representative Ranveig Frøiland makes representations to the Christian People's Party in terms of dividends tax, or double taxation on dividends. But I repeat that it was actually a prerequisite in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties – with the Christian People's Party – that it should be a temporaryity. If you look at this tax in isolation, there may be something right in what the representative said, but it's better to look at all taxes and taxes as a whole. And then the arrangement by the government of Bondevik also caters to the lowest incomes. One must look at it collectively, and have a good distribution of the tax reliefs proposed. It is important – I agree with the Workers' Party in this – that a good distribution of tax and tax reliefs is provided, but then you have to look at this together. The Christian People's Party did not run a campaign where one took the wave of tax relief alone. The Christian People's Party had a campaign where we went out and said that we wanted to raise the minimum deduction and do something about the tax for most people. In the co-operation administration, we have found a solution in the budget where we look at both general tax relief and tax relief and try to follow up the important heart issues of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e409	The representative Tørresdal was at the end of his post on a theme where, at least as I have perceived it, the Christian People's Party has acted somewhat schizofrently in recent years. I am talking about the VAT compensation scheme introduced in 1995. There was a Christian People's Party very clear with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left to have a general order, and they had a very good argument for it. Since then, the Christian People's Party in Stortinget has twice opposed an extension of the VAT compensation system, which now the representative Tørersdal talks relatively excitedly about – again. There is reason to wonder if the Christian People's Party has finally decided what they want to do with the VAT compensation scheme. This year it is time to expand with cleanness. But my question is: Will the Christian People's Party help us get a general order and let the municipalities themselves help decide what they want to compete? Will they ensure that the money goes to the department or to the department that has ordered and paid the services? And will they also be in a system that makes the money arrive in a reasonable time, at least significantly faster than they do today, as it takes two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e416	The Christian People's Party does not have a schizophrenic relationship with this with outsourcing, but we carefully assess the matter, because our well-being is versatile. It consists of both services that are easy and right to compete and services that are not so performance oriented. In my reply, I would like to refer to the Sem declaration. There is an important debate taking place and important assessments carried out by the Co-operation Board on which services it is appropriate to put off competition. The Christian People's Party wants a conscious attitude, because welfare through competitive outsourcing is to be improved, not degraded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e425	I did not intend to take the word in the line change, but since Bjørg Tørresdal mentioned this with tax on dividends and referred to the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre, I would like to inform Bjørg Tørresdal that it is absolutely right that the Workers' Party had an agreement with the Centre on Tax on Share Dividends. It is also true that it is stated in the agreement that it was temporary, but it was a prerequisite for that temporary period, namely that the Stortinget should be given a reference to business-related tax matters, including: of the split model. After this had been reviewed and the necessary decisions had been taken, tax on dividends would, if necessary, lapse. So it was a prerequisite for the one we had with the center, which is now the center of the center that runs from without mentioning the assumption for it. What we're asking for is that Bjørg Tørresdal should be a little bit more precise in his review of what that agreement actually meant. It did not just go into temporaryity, but it was a prerequisite for the temporaryity that the centre and the Workers' Party agreed, that we should have a case about the sharing model and a new form of business taxation for treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e432	In the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, the temporary period was important. Yes, it is right that it should be replaced by an alternative, but my answer will be a question to the Workers' Party: What has the Workers' Party done to find a good alternative to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e437	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e441	I refer to the financial situation, to the financial debate and to the comments in this setting that give a more complete picture of the central party's tax and tax arrangements, among others. when it concerns issues such as dividend taxes and changes in option taxes, and that we will continue the FUNN scheme. So I'll bring up the suggestion number. 13 and 14 and make a few comments to them. Proposal No. 13 is involved in stressing what we have seen through the entire financial situation, that for the Christian People's Party, the Center Party has been replaced with the Right. The previous article that we heard here from the Christian People's Party made it clear that it is more important for the Christian People's Party with tax laws now to those who have the most from before than to lift those who have the least. For in proposal No 13 could easily meet the Government even more those who care at least in this society, for proposal No. 13 deals with the alignment of the minimum subtraction. So I'd like to invite the Minister of Finance if he can't now support this in this round, at least to include this in his further work. So for those who care least, the percentage of the minimum subtraction means more than raising the minimum subtraction. The government has taken a small hold. The centre party suggests a change from 22 pst. up to 27.5 pst. That means that one who thinks NOK 150000 will receive a tax-free income of NOK 8 000 more than today. So that means several thousand dollars of increased tax-free income compared to both what's today's and what's going to be tomorrow's bets. So it also deals with proposal No. 13 individual household situation. The centre party thinks that as a society, we should take seriously that this is for the first time an increasing number of individuals' households, and for the second, that there is a group of them that has low incomes, and that in that way has to use more of the incomes say for building costs. In the setting up of the Municipal Committee, we look more closely at the charging system, a charging system that reflects consumption to a greater extent than today. But we also want a tax deduction for the individual's household, and then set the income deduction limit to NOK 150 000, so that the first step in that deduction is NOK 500 to the next year. So to proposal No. 14, which deals with the depreciation rules. It's true that the business community has also been exposed to that point as it is very uncertain. The centre party wants to fix something that happened last year, when big changes were made in the budget. That is why we have tabled proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox We also want the government to go through the depreciation rules carefully, so that one can get a system that is in line with what is real value reduction. I am very sorry that the Christian People's Party does not find any reason to look at it in this round, even though I know that they – in the same way as the Center Party – have received many recordings and reactions in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e456	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e459	With this draft budget, the government has shown that it is possible to combine important investment in increased welfare with lower taxes and taxes. In addition to increased efforts in the fields of poverty reduction, health care, public transport, preparedness for terrorism, environmentally friendly energy research, education and voluntary organisations, taxes and charges for individuals and businesses will be reduced by nearly DKK 12 billion. It is important for the Left that the Government, with this soundness, has ensured that the budget has received both a good environmental profile and a good social profile, and that better conditions are given to the business community. Larger tax reductions benefit both individuals and businesses. The industry's deductions from research and development are expanded so that more enterprises can benefit from the scheme. The double taxation of dividends and air passenger charges is eliminated. The property tax will be reduced by raising the base deduction. It's going to be raised to the bottom, and about 37,000 more blockers are dropping taxes. An estimated 1 million low-income taxpayers are reduced in marginal and average taxes by increasing the rate of the minimum deduction. Pension taxes are improved, even with a higher net tax-free income limit. On average, each tax payer receives a tax relief of approx. $1,800 with the government party's proposal. For the very lowest incomes, the cooperative party and the Labour Party have about the same ease, while the government party provides the highest tax relief for all incomes above NOK 126 000. The Labour Party has chosen to join several of our proposals for a reduced tax on low-wage and pensioners in its budgetary management. This is positive. The government proposes to improve the system of job options and thus further strengthen the business environment. The government also implements improvements in the VAT reform to exempt running balls and the operation of security alarms from VAT. The semi-declaration further states that several health services must be exempt from VAT. The left will work to ensure that all serious alternative health services are exempt from VAT, as other medical treatments already exist. The VAT compensation scheme for the municipal sector is being extended, so that reinhaling comes with effect from 2002. Thus, we are still a step further towards non-discrimination in the purchase of services from private and self-production of services. The aim of the left is to ensure full non-discrimination and to implement it as soon as possible. The left is also particularly pleased that voluntary organizations receive an additional 100 million. kr and is therefore fully compensated for the costs of the VAT reform. Dividend taxes from parts of the opposition have all of a sudden been made close to a question of solidarity or not. Let me point out what the parties said when the question of double taxation of dividends was raised in the Stortinget in 1998: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, refers to the ministry’s thorough review of the negative consequences for the Norwegian economy and ownership of the introduction of double taxation of dividends. The majority agree with the Ministry when it is emphasised that an additional dividend tax would discriminate against dividends in relation to, for example: deposits that are not taxed when the money is withdrawn from the bank. Furthermore, such double taxation of dividends is likely to result in shareholders choosing to withhold profits instead of paying them. Dividends distributed to individuals and other entities may be used in alternative applications that strengthen value creation and provide better social returns.» This was the hold of both the Labour Party and the Center Party until a few years ago. At that time, it was important to take care of the Norwegian economy, Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces. Now, symbolism and taking the rich have become more important. For the Left and the other government parties, Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers are still the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e494	The coastal party has its own proposal on the reserve provision for owners of fishing vessels. Reasons are given that the fluctuations in income and income are largely natural. Therefore, fishermen’s economic operators should have the opportunity to make reserve provision in good time to build up equity and reserves to meet bad times and to invest in new vessels and equipment, which are particularly capital-intensive. I would also like to refer to my contribution to the financial debate last week, and would like to put forward proposal No. 15, which the Coastal Party has promoted in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e501	Karl-Anton Swensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e504	I have noticed the comments from the government parties and the Progress Party on Equation Tariffs, Housing and Register in the municipalities, and will follow this up. In this debate and the financial debate as a whole, all attention has concentrated largely on dividend taxes. I'm satisfied with that in many ways. This implies that in many ways the majority of the Grand Duchy is satisfied with tax reliefs on the 2002 budget line at a total cost of DKK 12 million. It is good to have such support in Stortinget, although not everyone is equally clear. The debate on the distribution profile of a change in dividend tax is a strange debate. It was a newspaper that for some time ago, in the last big time, members of the Storting Finance Committee asked the following question: You have ten bananas in the fridge, you take out a banana, how many bananas do you have? The answer is still ten. Many say that the distribution profile by changing the dividend tax is so that the rich become less rich. That's not necessarily true. This is a voluntary tax. It's a dividend tax if you take dividends. If you don't take dividends, the wealth probably doesn't change because it's in the company. So if you take dividends, you have to pay taxes, but you can still get richer if you can put in better investments for the company. So the distribution discussion of this is highly doubtful. The geographic profile has also been doubted. At least I have to say that if you are concerned about geography, you should vote against dividend taxes. This means that capital is released from enterprises, which can then be freely traded. And there are no geographic restrictions on the use of dividends. There was a part that during the financial debate was concerned with the fact that the individuals who had dividends are, to some extent, geographically concentrated. Yeah, that's probably right, but there's no restrictions on their use of the funds. On the other hand, if they are not taken out, they are in enterprises that are probably more geographically concentrated. If you are concerned that districts too should have access to new capital for new growth, you should do as Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad in his time spoke for, and as this government also speaks for, and remove the dividend tax. I'm not going to discuss who has replaced who in the government – I think that's pretty clear on the government's composition. I just want to stress that this government agrees with the previous Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad, the former Minister of Finance, Sigbjørn Johnsen – and I could continue like this – in the view of dividend tax. With regard to VAT compensation for municipalities, it is true that today's system has significant weaknesses. There is a considered proposal in the Storting to extend the scheme to clean-up services. It was the Center Party in its time to order the then government to investigate, but so voted against. Therefore, the proposal is available as a legislative proposal and can be implemented very easily by the proposal that is now being adopted, probably without the votes of the Central Party. In the case of a wider extension of the VAT compensation system, it requires more extensive work. That work has been started by the Government. The reason for this is that service VAT has now also been introduced. Thus, a number of sectors that were not previously subject to VAT are listed below, and municipalities will often find themselves in a difficult situation. The idea of this broader investigation is that during 2002, we will be able to put forward a better system, which does not have today's weaknesses in late compensation and where to take sector by sector. It would be ideal if a system were found that made the municipalities completely free from VAT to choose whether they would put out competition or do work under their own control. The question of VAT compensation itself does not affect the outsourcing of competition. It only affects the freedom of the municipalities to choose on a basis that is equal to economic. I also record that the Workers' Party is still voting against the fact that there should be VAT exemption for driving training. I have some difficulties to see in the setting and in other ways the argument that this particular part of the education sector should be subject to special service tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e528	I will leave the debate on dividends tax now. I just want to refer to the Minister of Finance's own letter to the Finance Committee, where it is clear how the distribution effect of removing the dividend tax is. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Finance about the need for tax proposals to be covered. The Sem Declaration states quite clearly that it will be in favour of a tax bill of around NOK 25 billion. In addition, the investment fee will be removed, and this will probably amount to a place above NOK 30 billion. In the financial debate, the room for action in our budgetary policy was very much ahead, and as I understood the Minister of Finance preaching at that time, among other things, went. this with what determines the space for action, the tax revenue, the economic growth and the use of the oil fund. How does the Minister of Finance view these things in the future, when, at the next budgetary procedure, we are likely to have a significant follow-up, as is natural, of the Sem Declaration? Where will the cuts actually come from? Is it in the public sector, is it within our welfare system? Or should we go in the direction of the distribution as it's added up to now? How do you want to deal with these issues in a distributive way? And does the Minister of Finance agree that the expenditure growth we see in the public sector – I am thinking about some of those commitments through social security legislation, etc. as we have undertaken – is it going to swallow a good part of our space for action? Where do the interventions come from, I was about to say, within the tax and tax levels of the next round, within that space of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e535	We are now dealing with the tax package for 2002 – legislative changes – and the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman is so pleased with it, I understand, that he is asking about what we want to do with the 2003 budget. I can say that, according to old tradition, this work has already begun, but is at a very early stage, so I dare not say anything about the 2003 budget profile in addition to confirming what the replicator was about, namely that the automatic expenditure increases in the social security sector are a problem. We have the same attitude to it as the previous government, that it is important to limit this automatic expenditure growth. One of several instruments is the cooperation agreement to reduce sick leave. There are several instruments that will be developed after each and, where appropriate, submitted to the Stortinget. I understand that the representative will not discuss the distribution effect of the dividend tax. He referred to a letter from the Ministry of Finance. You can do that. When you ask what those who have dividends make, you get an answer to that. If you'd asked what those people are getting support from, for example. SND, waiter, you would also get an answer to that. I don't think it's a bold assumption to say that they'll probably be within about the same income layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e542	The party of progress is concerned about the development that we are now experiencing with an increasing unemployment rate, which after today's newspapers is approaching 70,000. However, we are reasonably confident that the tax arrangements we had in our alternative budget would have been a good tool to prevent rising unemployment. We are also afraid that if rapid, effective action is not taken against unemployment, it can be permanent, and it can be very difficult to reverse it. And then my question is: is the Minister of Finance agreed that the development of unemployment is worrying, and that tax relief is a good tool to fight her? Is the Minister of Finance saying that rising unemployment means that it is reasonable and proper to spend more money on tax relief than if unemployment were stable?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e549	Any increase in unemployment is worrying. The changes we've seen in the last month, there's no reason for drama in itself. The answer to the last question is yes — there would have been a cause for drastic tax cuts if the problem had been a lack of demand. It was, for example. in American economy. There was a drastic fall in demand. This is why we went to, among other things. drastic interest rate reductions in order to raise demand. Fresh figures indicate that it can be effective, and the most drastic tool used in American economy is interest rate reduction. There is nothing that convinces me that the economic structure of the Progress Party is a better arrangement for interest reduction than that of the government parties. I have also not seen any economist outside this house believe the same thing. We had a two-day financial debate where one of the themes was to demand from the Progress Party which economists have as evidence to say that spending more money in an economy with full capacity utilisation would give interest. You got an answer that time too, and I think you'll stay for a while. It is important to do so in a balanced way when there is a situation in an economy where the competitive sector is the most critical, but where full capacity utilisation is at the same time. This is about having two thoughts in your head at the same time, which is quite important when you're going to run such an economy as we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e557	I wasn't quite done with the dividend tax, even if the Workers' Party so far was. Two of the government partners of the Minister of Finance, the Christian People's Party and the Left, made the last announcement of a smoothdown in government. And the anti-dithering reports produced tax-free dividends as the main single reason for increasing income differences in the 1990s. When the Government now chooses to remove the tax on dividends, how has the government Bondevik intended to smooth out the differences? Or is it not a point for the Government to smooth out income differences? And then I have another question. In the election campaign, Foss and his party were concerned with increasing the entry point of the top tax significantly, much more than the level that has now been decided upon. Yes, we probably understood it almost so that the Right would have preferably removed the entire top tax, which would have cost about 15 billion kroner. Once the government has made such a dramatic cut in the district rights means – such as SND, freight compensation, regional and municipal nutrition funds, tax compensation for express buses, the agricultural agreement, etc. – in order to put the tax bill in place for this year, I would like the Minister of Finance to be able to lighten the veil and tell us where he intends to cut next year, when he is going to implement his wavelift. It won't even be enough to remove the entire agricultural agreement to put such amounts in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e566	I think I'll leave the veil where it is. I understand that in the debate there have been several attempts to lighten the veil on the 2003 budget, but I think we should leave it, except for the following point of view: Fully so static is not the economy. We require a growth, we require a withdrawal of the Petroleum Fund according to the rules of action, and then there are funds available for several good purposes. In any case, the government's attitude to the expanse message is that it is most important to make the poor richer, not to make the rich poorer. I understand from the representative's post that SV is actually also concerned about it, because it was a very reasonable post that was made about R & D support for the companies. It is true that there are several ways to do it: one is through taxes, and another is through the FUNN scheme, direct subsidies. If you're concerned that the definition of the rich are people who own businesses, they don't get any worse because you give them a grant or you give them a tax relief. There are different effects of that. I want to add that it is not that companies that are not in the tax position cannot use the scheme. If the deduction is greater than the tax paid, the rest will be refunded. So the weakness that the representative pointed out in his main post is actually not there. However, I agree that there is every reason to discuss openly whether a tax regime or a grant scheme is the best. But the distribution effect remains the same – it goes to the companies. So neither do SV's representatives. If you want to do something for those who own businesses, because you want to stimulate them to do more with their businesses and safe jobs, it actually has the distribution effect that it's probably the richest ten percent of the income in society that benefits from it. I just think you should admit that, and say that's because you want to secure the jobs, not because you need to strengthen the wallet of a few in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e575	I note that the Minister of Finance is taking former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad for income for his view in a number of areas, and since Restad is not able to participate in this debate, I know the need to clarify two aspects in relation to his contribution to the Minister of Finance. First of all, when it comes to the aberration message, Gudmund Restad was a central actor in its preparation. He was the one who delivered the premises, who told us about developments in tax matters, and who, therefore, was also important in the context of the anti-dithering communication of his fifth strategy. There were five strategies. I'm not going to take the time to go through all of these now, but an important piece to ensure a fairer distribution was a fairer tax system. Restad was also part of the big group that made a budget agreement last year, and where the premise of the Central Party, as Tore Nordtun has pointed out earlier, was that if the dividend tax were to be removed, it would be related to a review of the rest of the tax environment for business. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to take a round to district companies and ask what is most important for them – the removal of dividend taxes or the removal of SND in relation to risk capital. And then to my question: The finance minister wants to make the poor richer. As part of that, he wants to work even more for a fairer tax system, for example. by looking at the device, the percentage of the minimum subtraction, in relation to increasing the minimum subtraction?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e584	Yes, this government is for a fairer tax system. But I want to make a little reservation. When the representative, Kleppa, says that it means increasing the percentage and not the amount, I would like to add that the representative should then consider whether it is wise to put people in these income groups against increased marginal taxes by working more. It is not certain that it is a stimulating system. So you also have to consider it when choosing whether at the lowest level of income you want to increase the pension deduction, increase the minimum deduction – possibly by amount or percentage. I referred to former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad on two specific points. One is the dividend tax, in which I maintain that it should be temporary pending a tax reform, which the former government never proposed. I also referred to the representative Restad when it came to the plan of the Government to treat the municipalities more in terms of VAT. And I've been sitting on Stortinget for such a long time that I can at least refer to the previous discussions of Stortinget, where the representative Restad, before he became Minister of Finance, was a warm supporter of this very thing. It is now available from among others: a proposal to extend the clean-up system. It is an arrangement for which the representative Restad and the Central Party spoke warmly at the time. I'm not going to end up talking about who changed politics, but just remembering these historical facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e593	Before the last recorded speaker, Per Erik Monsen, gets the floor, the President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory period is over. The President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e596	I asked a question earlier today to the representative of the Christian People's Party about the VAT compensation system, and in this regard I used the word «schizofern» about the Christian People's Party's behaviour in that matter. I didn't get very much out of the answer, but to clarify what I meant, it was that the Christian People's Party in 1995, together with the Left and representatives of the Advance Party and the Right, argued very strongly for a general order. Since then, they have twice voted against any extension of the scheme, but now they are in favour of an extension and hopefully a general scheme. I must say that the Minister of Finance's posts reassured me considerably more than the answer I received from the Christian People's Party. It seems that the matter should be settled. The Progress Party opposed the VAT reform. We did not want to extend the tax base to include services, but we were positive about reducing the VAT on food. Furthermore, we warned against the pace in which the reform was to be carried out, because we felt that such a comprehensive reform should first be dealt with in the Stortinge by means of a general report in which the Stortinge took a position on the main principles. The Progress Party also considered that the reform work was urgent and that the impact on different industries was of little concern. Unfortunately, what happened after the reform has shown us that we were right. It has been found that there have been significant demarcation problems, and industries have experienced distortions of competition. A number of changes have therefore been necessary because the reform was not properly investigated. A number of such changes will be taken into consideration today. The Progress Party joins the proposed exemptions in the fields of culture, ticket distribution, education services, health and social alarm services, and in particular we are pleased that the Government is now proposing that driving training should also be exempted from VAT in line with other educational services. The treatment of driving training differently from that of other educational services was unfair and hit primarily by misguided young people. The proposal to remove the zero rate VAT scheme introduced for passenger transport by aircraft from 1 July of this year will be opposed by the Progress Party. When the ministry argues for a change, inter alia: Whereas, in order to avoid distortions of competition between modes of transport, the whole area of passenger transport should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner; It should be sufficient to refer to the transfers to the NSB to see that there is significant discrimination between modes of transport and that improved conditions for air transport will only help to balance these differences. In the case of alternative medicine, the Progress Party is amazed that the Government does not propose to extend the exemption for VAT, in particular in view of what has previously been said from the Government Parties. The investment levy has been repealed with effect from 1 April 2002. Now, when the Stoltenberg government and the Cooperative Government are not proposing to implement this decision, it is perceived as a significant breach of business commitment that has believed that a decision to collapse was to trust and have acted upon it. It is often and beautifully spoken from this pulpit about the importance of predictable framework conditions for business. This lifting break is a gross example of the opposite, and the Progress Party does not want to be accomplices in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e613	The President will note that medical terms such as schizophrenics are bad for political debates. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 43]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e631	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 56]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e647	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 63]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e663	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 63]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e679	This matter is a direct follow-up to the majority decisions taken in connection with the examination of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 On Norwegian agriculture and food production, and Ot.prp nr. 69 for 2000-2001 Law amending Law 21 January 2000 No 7 on cereal management, etc. In the light of these decisions, it is now a majority that supports the proposal for legislative amendments. Therefore, the necessary changes to the Sales Act to change the composition of the Turnover Council are of no concern. Similarly, the inclusion of cereals under the scope of the Sales Act. However, it is necessary, as the Ministry states in the proposal and as the majority of the Committee also points out, to reduce the size of the Council. In view of the fact that the law should come into force at the end of the year, the Committee also sees that this could be an excessive effort to reach. The Committee sees that this process needs to take some time, but not too long. After all, the Council is now being extended from 15 to 19 members, and many have said in the hearing that the Council is becoming too large. I therefore believe that the faster this process goes, the faster you have the opportunity to get more effective advice. In addition to these considerations, the majority of the Committee has no comments on the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e692	This came quickly. I'm gonna be okay. A proposal is made in this case on changes in the law that will give a new composition to the Council of Turnover. In addition, the cereals sector is to be incorporated into the law. The Advance Party has argued strongly against this on previous occasions. We have consistently argued that it cannot be right to give producer interests a majority in the Council of Turnovers as long as Norwegian consumers are forced to purchase expensive monopolised goods, while using tax resources for direct subsidies in the billions class. Where border protection and production subsidies are maintained at a high level, consumers’ interests and taxpayers’ interests should be given a majority in the Council instead of the current Gulf of Oat Travel Policy. The Party also disagrees with the introduction of co-operative market regulation in the cereals sector. A mix of roles such as this will be of course, both market regulation and business operations, we consider unfortunate in a situation where increased competition and innovation in the market are desirable. Against this background, we will oppose the proposals for legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e701	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Votation, see page 63]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e709	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e716	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e763	The first paragraph of Section 8 contains an aberrant proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No 17 December 1982 No. 86 on the legal fee is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following: 5 times the legal fee shall be paid for actions in the event of a court or tribunal; [[entry fee]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e812	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e822	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e859	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e869	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e1409	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e1419	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e1426	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Heidi Larssen on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 3, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, from Heidi Larssen on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 5, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, No. 6, by Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Presidents and the members of the Coastal Party, No. 8-10, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11 and 12, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 13, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and Coastal Party proposal No. 14, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 15, by Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party proposals No. 16–18, from Heidi Larssen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e1664	Here there is an error in the setting, and a proposal has been distributed, no. 16, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, which is an adjustment of the position. Later in the setting under point K on page 72 there is a proposal for the deletion of the second sentence. The second sentence should therefore not be included here. Proposal No. 16 is, as the President has understood, unanimous agreement. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No. 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: The first sentence shall be replaced by the following:Teaching services and the provision of such services.II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e1972	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:No fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 34 600. [[People's Security Act]] The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of which part of the income exceeds NOK 34 600.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2154	Before we move on to voting, the President will draw attention to the proposals for changes to the tax law of Ot.prp. No 21 has not been incorporated into Ot.prp’s proposals. No 1st@item: This makes the voting a little bit more complicated. However, the minority proposals that are not included under I will be included under K later in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2193	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2229	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2241	The President here wants to vote on two proposals. That is proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, to Sections 6-19, 6-20 and 6-50. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-19 is replaced by the following: a deduction may be made either by up to DKK 1 800 or by up to two per million of the total salary paid.§ 6-20, fourth paragraph, the second sentence is replaced by: a deduction may be made by up to DKK 1 800 or by a proportionate part of that amount when the deductible quota is paid for only part of the year of income.§ 6 to 50, fourth paragraph is replaced by: a deduction is made according to the rules of this paragraph only when the gift is at least SEK 500 in the year in which the grant is granted. [[tax laws]] A maximum deduction shall be made for gifts under this paragraph and the union quota, together with a total of $1,800 per year. In the case of taxpayers who require a deduction from the quota for employers' association or professional and trade union organisations according to § 6-19 with two parts per million of total wages and salaries paid, no deduction is made under this provision. For others who require deductions under § 6-19, the maximum deduction for gifts under this paragraph and the quota under § 6-19, together with a total of SEK 1 800 per year, is granted.» And that's proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, to §§6-20 and 6-50 – §6-81 of the proposal will be addressed later under K. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Sections 6 to 20 are deleted.§ 6 to 50, the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] A maximum deduction shall be made for gifts under this paragraph with a total of DKK 1800 per year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2313	The President here will vote on three proposals for the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-32. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 6 to 32 shall be replaced by the following: the minimum deduction shall be fixed at an amount equal to 27,5 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of income covered by Sections 6-31.New subchapter heading is replaced by the following:Tax deduction for personal taxpayersNew Section 16-1 is replaced by the following:§ 16-1 Special tax deduction for single householdsThere is a separate tax deduction of SEK 500 to single households. The Ministry lays down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of this paragraph, including the definition of a household.IIThe changes under I enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2348	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-32 is replaced by the following: the minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 24 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of the income covered by Sections 6-31.IIAmendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2002 onwards.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2373	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left, the proposal reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-32, the minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 23 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of the income covered by Sections 6-31.IIAmendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2002 onwards.» The President assumes that the other groups now support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2425	The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2437	The President will vote on proposal No. 7, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party to Sections 6-60 and 6-61. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 6 to 60, first paragraph is replaced by the following: Taxes which, for at least 130 days of the year of income, have personally engaged in or engaged in fishing or fishing at sea or along the coast are deducted by up to 30 pst. [[tax laws]] the net labour income of fishing or fishing, limited to NOK 85 000.§ 6-61, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Seafarers shall be deducted by up to 30 pst. of revenue on board, limited to NOK 85 000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2539	There are two different proposals. It is proposal No 7 from the Party of Presidents and the Coastal Party: ‘Sections 14-43, first and second paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: [[1]] as referred to in the first subparagraph of Sections 14 to 41 may be written off up to the following rate: a. office machines and the like – 30 pst.b. acquired business value – 30 pst.c. combinations of vehicles, trucks, buses, vans, taxis and vehicles for the transport of disabled persons – 25 pst.d. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furnishings, etc. – 20 p.e. ships, vessels, rigging, etc. – 20 pst.f. aeroplane, helicopter – 12 pst.g. plants for the transmission and distribution of electricity and electrical equipment in power undertakings – 5 pst.h. constructions, hotels, lodges, shelters, etc. – 4 pst.i. business building – 2 pst. [[2]] Constructions mentioned under h and i that are located in the municipality or part of the municipality as per 31 December of the year of revenue falls within the geographical scope of regional policy instruments managed by the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund and by the counties can be depreciated at a double rate. The increased depreciation rate also applies to the balance for construction with such a simple design that it must be considered to have a useful life of not more than 20 years from the entry. The balance of such buildings may be amortised by up to 10 pst.’ And that's proposal No. 14, from the Centre Party: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first and second paragraphs of Article 14 to 43, the following is added: [[tax laws]] [[1]] as referred to in the first subparagraph of Sections 14 to 41 may be written off up to the following rate: a. office machines and the like – 30 pst.b. acquired business value – 20 pst.c. combinations of vehicles, trucks, buses, vans, taxis and vehicles for the transport of disabled persons – 20 pst.d. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furnishings, etc. – 15 p.e. ships, vessels, rigging, etc. – 14 p.f. aeroplane, helicopter – 12 pst.g. plants for the transmission and distribution of electricity and electrical equipment in power undertakings – 5 pst.h. constructions, hotels, lodges, shelters, etc. – 4 pst.i. business building – 2 pst. [[2]] The higher depreciation rate applies to: a. construction with such a simple design that it must be considered to have a service life of not more than 20 years from the entry. The balance of such barley may be depreciated by up to 6 pst.b. fishing vessels. The balance of such a vessel may be depreciated by up to 20 pst.c. means of operation within the meaning of point (h) of the first subparagraph which are owned by agricultural or forestry operators based on Law No 19 June 1969; Paragraph 66(31) shall or may be required to provide an annual report for the calculation of value added tax and for non-retailers as provided for in Regulation No. 22 August 1973. 3 may be recorded in the VAT-man number. The balance of these assets may be amortised by up to 6 pst. IIAmendment I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2002.» The proposal of the Centre Party is first contested, then alternatively between the suspension and the proposal of the Advance Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2745	The Party of Advances and the Coastal Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2776	The Labour Party has notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2814	The Labour Party has notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2826	The President will vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal is distributed in the Chamber and reads: ‘In Law No. 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: the second sentence of Article 14 shall be deleted; Section 16, first paragraph, point (b) is deleted; Article 16 first paragraph, point (b) is deleted; 15 becomes a number. 14.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force with effect from 1 April 2002. The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2871	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2905	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2917	The President here wants to vote on five proposals. First of all, the remainder of proposal No. 8 and Proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Sections 6 to 81, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. With effect from the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction is made in the general income of SEK 2,083 per person. start of month. Spouses are entitled to the same special deductions as a single spouse. Paragraphs 6 to 81 of the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Grape Social Security Act or a disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction in general income of SEK 2,083 per person is granted. beginning of the month.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of revenue 2002. Proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 7-11 is replaced by the following:The percentage income is calculated at 1,875 pst. [[tax laws]] the equivalency of the property on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in point (d). However, for that part of the equation value before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, the income shall be calculated at 3,75 pst.§ 7-12, sixth paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following:percentage income is calculated at 1,875 pst. the proportion of the property's Equation Value on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in paragraphs 7-11(d). However, for that part of the proportion of the value of the equation before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, income shall be calculated at 3,75 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2960	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Article 7-11, first paragraph, point (d), first sentence is replaced by the following: When calculating net income after point (a), a deduction of SEK 200000 is made in the Equation Value.New Article 8-7 is replaced by the following:§ 8-7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vesselsSkatteytes operating on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deduction of general income for reserves in accordance with the rules of this provision.The provision is limited up to 30 pst. [[tax laws]] the general income generated by the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph.The provision must be promoted before the end of the period of the declaration.The amounts deducted from the above provisions shall be added to the taxable person's income for the year in which the funds are made available, and not later than the fifth year after the deduction of the amount.The Ministry shall provide for the completion and implementation of this provision.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of revenue in 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e2998	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:In the first sentence of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Section 6-81, as from the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction is made in the general income of SEK 1530 per month. the second paragraph of Section 6-81 shall be replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer receives preliminary unpaid pay under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Grape Social Security Act or invalidity pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction of general income of SEK 1530 per person shall be made. the first sentence of point (d) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following:For the calculation of net income after point (a), a deduction of SEK 80000 in the value of the equation shall be made.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2002. ‘... [[tax laws]] It is first put to the vote on the proposal for sections 6 to 81. The Progress Party and the Coastal Party have here announced their support for the proposal. Then it is voted against on the proposal for § 7-11. The President has understood that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party are now supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3044	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 10-12 is replaced by the following: Compensation is determined to the dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] For persons liable for tax and death in Finnmark or in the municipalities of Karlsøy, Kvänangen, Kåfjord, Lyngen, Nordreisa, Skjervøy and Storfjord in the counties of Troms, compensation shall be fixed at 7,5/24,5 of the shareholder's tax rate.§ 10-32, second paragraph, the second sentence shall be replaced by the following:If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value of the share in the case of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37 and the realisation of the transfer of unlisted shares to the company which issued the share shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3091	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3109	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 10-12 is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The recipient of dividends is a company, etc. as referred to in Section 2-2, first paragraph.b. Dividends received to active shareholders, in so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated person's income attributed to the shareholder of the company or of the company in which he or she holds, directly or indirectly, a holding in the year in which dividends are distributed. Assimilated to the active shareholder are taxpayers with whom the active one is to be identified according to Sections 12-11. In indirect ownership or identification according to Sections 12 to 11, account is taken only of personal income that has not provided the basis for full remuneration for taxable persons assigned to the income of the company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3149	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3219	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Articles 16 to 40, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Taxes operating under Sections 1-2 of the Accounting Act shall be deducted from taxes and social security contributions for 25 pst. [[1]] the costs of research and development projects in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.» The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have an alternative in the form of a new legislative proposal for this paragraph, proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the laws relating to research and development in the business sector§ 1A contribution to research and development in the business sector from the Norwegian Research Council in accordance with the rules laid down in this Act is granted.§ 2Additions shall be granted to the enterprise which, after the last two years, fulfils two of the following three conditions: (a) the amount of the operation is less than 80 million. kronor in sales income,b) the enterprise has less than 40 million. kronor in balance sheet total,c) the enterprise has added less than 250. § 3A supplement is granted to cover 25 pst. the costs associated with: a) Own research and development project approved by the Norwegian Research Council up to 4 million. kronor per cent. år.b) Research and development project carried out by research institutes approved by the Norwegian Research Council up to 8 million. kronor per cent. years. The aggregate amount of the contributions referred to in points (a) and (b) shall not exceed that amount. Grants may also be provided through cooperation projects between several independent enterprises when the project has been approved by the Norwegian Research Council. In the case of such projects, the subsidy frame shall be payable per. projects, broken down into participants by participating interests.In groups according to the share laws § 1-3 and the general stock laws § 1-3, projects related to each other are treated as a project. The proposal is then treated as in the second sentence of the second paragraph.§ 4The Ministry may provide for the implementation and enforcement of the laws, such as rules on the approval of projects and institutions, on what to charge for the cost of the research and development project, and on the rules for the management and complaint of the project approval system.» The President will first vote on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, and then alternately between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3302	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have here announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3333	The Labour Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3345	Then there is still to be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 17 February 1995 No. 9 on compensation for VAT payable to municipalities and counties etc. is amended as follows:In paragraph 2, new paragraph: 3 to 9 is replaced by the following: 3rd@item: inlistbox Purity.4. Temporary and manning services.5. Canteen services.6. Kitchen and catering activities in the health and care sectors.7. Watch and alarm services.8. Guardmaster services.9. Ticket sales and related services to toll stations related to roads, bridges and tunnels. IIAmendment enters into force on 1 January 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3394	Proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 17 February 1995 9 on compensation for VAT payable to municipalities and counties etc. is amended as follows:§ 2 new paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3rd@item: inlistbox Clean-up. IIAmendment enters into force on 1 January 2002.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized aid here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3426	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3436	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e3455	So, case No. 4 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4364	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4410	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4420	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4529	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4541	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4553	The law decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04-lower.ana.ud2371e4564	There is no record.
