ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e34	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that one of the independent representatives should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no possibility of changing the lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e43	The matter we have to deal with today is a follow-up to the agricultural notification that we dealt with a year ago. Those who remember so far back will remember that the working party and the center stood together about, as far as I remember, every letter and every dot in that setting. What has been done since then in general in the field of agricultural policy has been described by the parties themselves in a clear way, both in word and in deed. What is being treated today is Ot.prp. No Thirty-three. There are three main elements of the Concession Act and the Odel Act that are under consideration. One goes on the abolition of the State's pre-emptive right. The second is the tightening of the dwelling obligation on concession-occupied properties, and there is an increase in the area limits triggering the concession obligation. The government will have a majority of two of these three points. The attitude shows that the Government does not agree to tighten up the housing obligation as strongly as proposed by Hanssen State Council. The concession law was introduced in 1974. There is no doubt that the concession law has created much – I would say unnecessary – trouble both for people who have been buyers and sellers. I find it difficult to find good evidence that the concession law has been of benefit or blessing to the towns. I guess that's the opposite. But there has been a lot of good food for lawyers and bureaucrats. At least there is no doubt about it. The changes that have been made since 1974, as far as I can see, have been almost without exception in what can be called the liberalizing direction. In this way, there is a developmental breach when the Government proposed a strong tightening of the obligation to live. It was proposed to strengthen the obligation to live, from approx. half the year on the property at 70 pst. But, as I said, the bulk of the population has in a necessary way corrected the error that was encroached on the proposition. The first point that I'm going to say a few words about is related to the abolition of the state's pre-emptive right. Of course, from the Right, we are pleased with the fact that the bulk of the population now unanimously agrees that the state’s right to purchase will cease. It's almost strange to think that in this country for 27 years we have had a situation in which the state has had a de facto pre-emptive right to all property on sale, which is from five decks and larger. I can't characterize it as anything but that here there has been a lot of unnecessary interference in private property rights. Nor is there any doubt that there has been a major conflict with the legal certainty of people. That's why I'm very happy that a unanimous committee says, ‘As demonstrated by the proposition, the pre-emption right is considered to be an undue intervention and, in part, an unreasonable instrument. In addition to violating people's legal personality and undermining private property rights, the Committee considers that the State's right of pre-emption has been detrimental to the settlement of the districts.» So it was 27 years before you realized this, but it was better late than never. The costs relating to State pre-purchase law have been documented by investigations carried out at the Agricultural Higher Education School in Ås, which showed that when one is to roll over the costs incurred in assessing all state pre-purchase cases, to the cases where one makes State pre-purchases, it is actually 500 000 kroner per. I'm sorry. The average value of the properties in which the country has exercised its pre-purchase right is NOK 400000. This means that over the 27 years, we have spent hundreds of millions in the process of pre-empting the state, which has not helped the structure of Norwegian agriculture, but which has created a lot of bad blood in the countryside. That is why, as I said, it is very good that we are now suspending the state's right to pre-empt. However, it is worrying that the majority of the population, at the Workers' Party and Centre, are making a kind of compensation for the lifting of the State's pre-emptive right. It is said that concession treatment should be an alternative to pre-emption rights. The majority of the size assumes that ‘the possibilities to refuse concession will be strengthened’. So the majority of the population today suggests that, as an alternative to the state's pre-emptive right, concessions can be refused to a much greater extent than is the case today. Another significant point in the attitude that we are dealing with today, on which there is a broad consensus in the Committee, is the point of changing the land limits. It is such that today, the bulk of the population quadruples the area, from 5 Decor to 20 Decor, for properties to be subject to concession. On the right hand side, we repeat our long-term proposal, which is in line with the Food Law Committee's proposal, namely that only properties larger than 50 dean should be subject to concession. The point in the proposition for which the government does not get a majority goes on the content of the dwelling, you might say. It has been that the administration has followed the law on population registers, which means that there is about one living there. Half a year, you have your home, and you have to be taxed – and that is enough to meet your obligation to live. There the government had proposed 70 pst. I was about to say: almost for natural reasons, the bulk of the population has made sure to park that case. However, there will be a tightening of what is now being introduced. I can only say that I react when I read the comments that go on changing the place of residence, where the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre, say: ‘The majority believe that housing’ — I repeat — ‘and administrative satisfaction are important prerequisites for the agricultural industry to be able to increase the value creation of agricultural buildings and to ensure their settlement’. Then I feel that there is still a not insignificant element of dreams and peasant romance associated with living in the countryside. But if you want to advertise properties for sale to people with great administrative joy and housing, so much for me. What I think is a little strange is that not the bulk of the population and the other batches can be involved in, is to get the government to carry out an independent investigation into the actual significance of the housing obligation. In the suspension, in the research environment and in the agricultural environment, there is considerable disagreement about the impact of this restriction on the free movement of property. I think it would have been natural if the population had manned up to say that it is important to get a proper review of this to see if it is the way we think it is, that this housing obligation is very important for the settlement in Norwegian villages, when there are comparative studies that show the exact opposite. However, there is one thing you can come back to, and I intend to use that opportunity later in our perhaps. In the case of an exemption from the obligation to live, there is a strong increase on the part of the majority in the vote. A minority, consisting of the center parts, goes even further when they say, ‘In the view of those members, exemption from living shall be granted only by way of exception.’;» It really means that several thousand people who are now being granted a waiver are not going to get it. It's like 93 pst. the applications for exemption are granted. I cannot understand why the centre parties cannot rely on the local discretion given to the municipalities to assess the exemption from the obligation to live. I can't see that there is any major problem that there is a different attitude in some municipalities than in other municipalities, because this is very different. What we've seen lately are some examples of married couples living in two properties. It should be a matter of course that such things are cleared out. When people have no part in two properties, in the name of justice, you cannot demand that they live in two places. It should be possible to understand even the agricultural bureaucracy. To the extent that they should understand it, I hope those things can write a proposition that the Council of State can promote, so we let go of all these individual things that appear to be pure Molbo adventures from the everyday agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e88	The position of the Workers' Party in this case concerning amendments to the Concession Act and the Odelsgesetz is mainly based on three aspects: the first is the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The second is the Government’s programme for the renewal and simplification of the public sector. The third is consideration of local influence and exposure. In St.meld. No 19 concerns about ownership and the operation of agricultural properties were addressed and a number of changes were proposed. These changes joined the Stortinget. This is underpinned by the desire to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and an agricultural sector which makes a significant contribution to housing and employment. In addition, emphasis has been placed on the value of local ownership of natural resources that can contribute to the vitality and long-term planning of the community. The right of pre-emption is suspended in its entirety. In recent years, there has been a gradual decline in the use of State pre-emption rights, down to 15 cases in 1999. What has been achieved in the form of a modified pre-purchase usage structure is limited. Most hearing bodies have also opted for the suspension of their right of pre-emption. However, one has noticed that those representing the outdoor interests have been critical to this. One assumes that the agricultural authorities are more active in the sale of agricultural property, so that good and natural solutions can be achieved on a voluntary basis. There are a number of examples of such an active role in the trading of agricultural properties benefiting all parties. The purpose of the residence is now explicitly mentioned in the purpose of Section 1 of the Concession Act. This means that no one can question whether housing is a relevant element or not in deciding matters under the concession law. These changes will provide a framework for more stringent enforcement of the rules on housing obligations. It is also important to facilitate solutions in which a proper balance is made between the consideration of residence and the ability to obtain income either from the property or from other activities. When the Workers' Party, in its comments, will not give too many or strict leadership in dealing with such matters, it is precisely in the interests of local authorities and local democracy. We want to emphasise that local democracy has a space for action within a given framework, and that decisions to be taken locally should not be given so strong leadership that this space of action becomes too narrow. This is in line with the Government's work on the renewal of the public sector. The working party has opposed the original proposal in the proposal to bind the dwelling obligation to the owner to stay on the property in 70 p.m. of time. First of all, our reason has been that we do not have to make rules that are difficult to control, and that can also be the subject of a dispute and a debate on percentages. Such disputes could have given a negative impression of Building Norway. That is why we believe that the present proposal, which follows the rules on population registration, is the simplest and best way to follow up local authorities. This will be in line with the Government's objective of spending less money and time for control and administration, and more for direct provision of services to the population. For the treatment of St.meld. No 19 it was considered that a desired change in the pattern of turnover of small agricultural properties. A majority proposed to raise the land limits of the concession law and the law of nobility to 20 deches in order to increase the turnover of properties. It is worth noting that even if a person within this limit will be granted freedom of concession, Section 8 of the Land Act still applies so that agricultural land that can provide a basis for profitable operation is maintained. Where the owner himself does not want to operate the land, this can be solved by making the area available to active users in the area. The increase in the area limit of 20 deches must be seen in the context of the possibility of increasing the dwelling requirement. Special questions have been raised by raising the land border in the Odel Act. In particular, this is linked to the second paragraph of Section 2, where it is said that a clean forest property with an area of less than 100 dekar is not a farmland. One assumes that the Odel Law Committee, which will be reduced, will address this issue in more detail and that this work will clarify the possibility of a new land border. Overall, legislative changes will lead to simplifications. This, in turn, will mean less administration and lower financial costs. The changes in the landline will result in fewer odeliendoms, which in turn will lead to fewer nodelling cases and less work for the courts. All of this is in line with the Government's work on simplification in the public sector and reduced time to administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e111	Although it does not belong to the agenda, I would like to start by congratulating the Council of State on a factual, well-worked position when it comes to the renewal of the import ban that came yesterday. I want to give credit for not giving in to the pressure from the EU and that he is following the professional advice. Me and the Christian People's Party have come up with criticism when we have seen it has reason for it, but I also think there is reason to give praise when there is reason for it. The changes in the laws that we are implementing today are a follow-up to what the majority said last year, when the Stortinge manages St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The changes concern ownership, operation and housing of agricultural properties. The State pre-emption right will be removed. Pre-emption rights, as has also been said before, have led to a number of difficult cases and are no longer an important means of achieving a desired use structure. Despite the fact that a pre-purchase right is taken away, it is not good that we no longer have the means to influence the development of usage structure and bussiness. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the possibility of refusing a concession is strengthened, but in a way that takes into account the need to place more emphasis on the constitution than before. Where the purchaser has resided and wants to move to the property and manage it, great emphasis shall be placed on the principle of contractual freedom. Agriculture has an important role to play in sustaining the main features of the construction pattern. In many rural communities, agriculture and activity are linked to agriculture as a whole. This is one of the many important tasks of multifunctional agriculture. It is a goal to ensure local ownership and settlement in the countryside, where resource management and long-termity are at the mercy of the community. It is alarming when half of the agricultural estates in some municipalities are owned by people living outside the municipality. Agricultural estates are attractive as housing. This is a resource that local communities need to use in terms of attracting skilled enterprises and labour. Putting to work outside the use will strengthen the use's role as a dwelling. However, the smaller units will have too little value and too little potential for income to attract new owners alone. The Christian People's Party believes that it is positive that the care for the construction is now included in Section 1 of the Conseil Law. It is important that the content of the obligation is clarified. The government's proposal was a requirement to spend the night on the garden 70 pst. of the networks, with some exceptions. Together with the Worker's Party, the Centre Party has softened up to this requirement. We have chosen a simpler arrangement. The general rule is that there is a requirement to register a residence in the People's Register as a debtor, but with the possibility of special arrangement for those who spend more than 50 pst. of the networks, but have an address in the Folkeregister together with the family in another location. That is why we have a slightly changed proposal for a change of law, both in the law of concession and in the law of nobility. This is not because we are not part of the intention of what was presented by the Government, but because the practice of it should not lead to us weakening what was intentional. And I think we've come up with a good suggestion here. On one point, from the center side, we haven't had some of the Labour Party. It is true that there are clear rules on what it means to own an agricultural property and that it is going to be more difficult to obtain exemption from the obligation both in the context of the concession application and in retrospect. We believe exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy should only be granted in exceptional circumstances. Such strict practice requires clear rules and criteria to be precautionary, without taking away the ability to use local discretion. We mean the ratio of income outside the use is something that needs to be taken into account. Then Stortinget handles St.meld. No 19, make a multiple reason why a new pattern needs to be added to the translation of agricultural owner domains. For such property, housing functions are often far more important than agricultural activities. The change in the land limits of concession laws and odelslova facilitates that property under 20 covers can be converted to a much larger extent as a dwelling instead of as an agricultural property. At the same time, it is important to stress, as indicated in the proposal, that one of the criteria for freedom of concession in the acquisition of agricultural ownership is that one should keep the land in claim. I hope that the changes we are making in the laws today will make a positive impact on many communities. A long series of property properties are now available as housing – if today's owner is willing to sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e134	The Progress Party differs from most other parties in the view of legislation in this area that the Stortinget is dealing with today. We do not want the authorities to have a conscious policy of comprehensive regulation in terms of concession and nodule legislation. There is currently too restrictive legislation on agricultural property. This threatens the right of individuals to own and possess their own property. We will remove most of these restrictions, including: in the case of sales of agricultural and forestry property. It is also appropriate to remove the obligation of residence under the law of no part of the concession and concession in its present form. We believe that the individual farmer must have the freedom to determine the use of his own land and then make investments. As early as 1990, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to repeal the law on concession and public pre-emption by acquiring real estate. This has been followed up by similar proposals in the examination of proposals for new land laws and changes to the provisions on living and working conditions under the law on statehood and concession. As we see it, today's concession law in principle means a clear violation of ownership. This is very worrying because ownership is one of the most fundamental carriers in our democracy, while at the same time it represents the best guarantee of achieving proper national resource management. The concession law shall meet the need for regulation and control of the turnover of real estate in accordance with its purpose paragraph. This regulatory and control system has probably succeeded in keeping prices artificially low on some properties, but because the law results in increases especially in urban areas, it has stimulated and partially forced payment forms under the table. The concession law is almost 27 years old, and much else has changed in society. We have seen that the regulation has led to low prices and evaporation in the ownership of Norwegian agricultural and forestry properties. 20 pst. these properties are owned by people over 60 years of age. Not enough for the elderly to be in possession of the properties: the estate owner owns a large part of the Norwegian farm. In Nordland, Mortsbo owns 10 pst. of agricultural property, and there are high figures elsewhere in the country. This is because it costs little to sit with the properties, and because you don't get anything left to sell them because of the price adjustments. Roads, buildings and technical installations are not restored when the capital invested is not recovered. This is very unfortunate and may include, for example: lead to the forest not being operated as it should. Therefore, this law needs to be repealed so that low price and evaporation in ownership can be replaced by the possibilities for higher prices, more efficient use of resources and more residents of the country. We don't understand that it's going to be so hard to get any further in this area. Why cannot the purchaser and the seller himself determine the price of the disposal of agricultural property? We don't need a price understanding to decide the question. If the buyer and the seller agree on the price, they act. This is the case when a buyer buys a car or a dwelling, and most of the other business. Therefore, the market price should also be used for agricultural properties, we believe. There is little evidence to suggest that the concession law will be an appropriate tool to promote a reasonable use of resources in an overall agricultural policy whether we like it or not. The self-employed in the food production industry will in the future be forced to assume greater responsibility for their own income. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate relations rather than to doubt an appropriate piece of legislation. This can be done by reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, and soil and concession legislation is central to this. The concession law provides for the administration and bureaucracy to actively encroach on the individual’s choice with regard to the acquisition and exploitation of own property. But a lot has changed since the law came. At that time, the local authorities' control plans were often unfinished. Today's situation is the opposite. Overall, there are well-established regulatory plans. These plans have brought society closer to full control of the disposal of the land base. Therefore, we believe that the law can be abolished in its entirety, but the public should be allowed to intervene when strong societal considerations so warrant. So a few words about the obligation to live. In modern society, the demand for labour mobility has increased. For some, it is not possible to obtain work in the place where they were born and raised. Those who try to find a solution by taking over the farm and not fulfilling the obligation to live will be punished. They haven't done anything criminal, but they lose the property without full compensation. Agricultural policy appears to conflict with fundamental principles of human rights and freedoms. The Declaration of Human Rights states: ‘No one must be arbitrarily deprived of his property.’ And another article in the Declaration of Human Rights states: ‘Every person has the right to move freely and to choose the place of residence within the borders of a country.’ The freedom of farmers is very limited in Norway. It should be a reasonable requirement for those who want to force individuals to prove that this is necessary. The party notes that the Ministry cannot demonstrate that housing has a particularly positive impact on housing, business and community development in the districts either. As we see it, the problem of rural areas is lack of jobs and innovation, but no more jobs are created in agriculture through personal living. In agriculture, overproduction and overcapacity are the main problem. If you really want to strengthen the settlement in the countryside, it is more effective to remove the personal dwelling obligation and remove the regulation of property prices. Higher property prices will lead to more sale and rental of dwellings on farm. In other words, we must get a twist away from regulation and over to confidence in the individual and the market. There is reason to stress that housing can help reduce farm activity and weaken recruitment among the most creative and initiative-rich young people. We believe there is a great need to remove some old watersheds and some sacred cows in agricultural policy, and the free formation of prices on agricultural properties, the abandonment of housing and concessional restrictions will be important instruments for reviving rural areas. We understand that other parties need more time before they are willing to allow for full liberalisation in this area, but we had hoped it could be possible to bring together a majority behind proposals that had gone beyond today's position bearing commandments. I would like to mention proposal No. 5 on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e170	Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e173	The centre batch has not been a propellant to raise the land limits of the concession law and the Odel law. We are very concerned about ensuring a firm settlement for all uses, and believe that the use of 5-10 deacons can become attractive accommodations for more and more people. Several of these will compete with the many who want to buy for leisure purposes, when a purchase is subject to a residential obligation. During the last year’s treatment of the agricultural notification, the Centre party was committed to ensuring a broad majority of an agricultural policy with good and predictable agricultural framework conditions. With that in mind, the Centre Party accepted increased land limits in the concession law and the no partial law under the clear condition that strict application of the housing obligation should be legalised. A continuation of the rights of municipalities to introduce lower land limits than the requirements of the law was a different condition. A reluctance to accept increased land limits was raised against other important issues, where agreement with the Workers' Party was considered necessary. This was particularly true of a clear income objective, namely: ‘An active agricultural policy must be pursued to ensure that active agricultural operators develop incomes and social conditions in line with other social groups’. That was the result. Another important objective of a broad consensus was the future structure of use. The majority agreed on much better conditions for smaller and combined uses — representing 80 pst. of the number of uses, except where agreement would be reached between the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. Concession treatment with conditions of permanent residence we have faith as a public instrument. It has not been effective because so many have been exempted from living. There is now a reduction in the use covered by the concession obligation, but less exemption from the obligation to live must be granted. It is essential that the body of appeal at the level of the county does not erode this tightening by granting derogations where a strict practice has been agreed locally. That's what's happened now. The centre party hopes that even more municipalities will introduce a lower concession limit than is now the law’s requirement. Today, more than 70 municipalities have introduced the so-called 0-limit in concession treatment for all or part of the municipality. A major concern about raising land boundaries is the assumed effect on property prices. Where more small farms can now be traded without a concession requirement and thereby at market prices, their prices will be higher than normal agricultural holdings can even defend for uses which are significantly higher. This may include, inter alia: in turn, exert considerable pressure on selling away from the surface of more than 20 decks. An unfortunate breakdown of areas could be the result. How far up in the area groups such a price effect will be noted is not determined. It seems obvious that the economic situation in agriculture is not such that there is room for increased capital costs as a result of the increase in the price of acquisition. The most pleasant thing about the changes that are now being made is the loss of State pre-emption rights. The system has led to many conflicts and problems without the social benefits being great. It should become very rare after this treatment that the principle of respecting the freedom of contract is not applied. Where the public needs land, it is appropriate to offer such a high price that the sale is made on a voluntary basis. Expropriation is seen as more honest than interfering with concluded agreements. The centre party is concerned not to introduce a practice of gross refusal of concession as compensation for the right of pre-emption that is now being abolished. It must be taken into account that voluntary agreements which accept fixed-dwelling requirements are the best means of securing residence. Refusal of concession to an extent which may contribute to a changed use structure is entirely illogical when substantial amounts are allocated at the same time to ancillary activities and niche productions which do not in any way require a large inland area. With a view to contributing to innovation in and in relation to agriculture, it would be most positive to welcome all those who want to live with free will. In the case of an increase in the area limits of freedom of concession, the possibility of imposing obligations on many small areas is waived. It is then the abstinence paragraph of the Law that remains for use in such cases. It is likely to have to be made more operational to prevent good soil from growing again. The Right Party, the Advance Party and Terje Knudsen will raise the area limits to 50 dec to increase the supply of agricultural land. As a result, the properties will increase their value as mortgages, it is said. It's going to be possible to raise more loans. What in the next round is going to give income to pay the much larger loans, it's not said about that on that occasion. Other documents indicate that the small uses, according to the recipe of these lots, will receive less income from their agricultural operations. Then it's probably the extra quality of living that's going to attract people with different incomes -- people who would stay away from the ugly demands to stay and keep the land in claim followed on the purchase. It is hoped that these parties will not have an increased influence on Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e204	The objective of active agriculture in all parts of the country is part of the broad rural policy, the aim of which is to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. Any agricultural property with a dwelling may have a function related to settlement in the countryside. In the view of the Left, it is the right policy to design the means of agricultural policy so that they contribute to the settlement and living settlements. At the time of the processing of the agricultural notification, changes were made to some legal instruments in land management, pre-purchasing rights, state and concession laws and changes to the housing obligation. It is important to have a framework that best ensures that our soil resources are maintained, which ensures our own food production both in terms of quantity, quality and safety, and which takes into account that it is important for the settlement and living settlements that agricultural properties are inhabited. This applies even if the holding itself does not generate sufficient income to live on. There are large groups of people who see the value of living on a farm and run an agricultural property in combination with other occupations. It is necessary to provide a framework and an agricultural policy that stimulates it. The one-sided focus on larger and larger units is not the right path for a Norwegian agricultural policy that is also intended to stimulate living communities, viable communities and to counteract the disfavor of rural settlements. There is broad agreement to abolish public pre-emption rights under the concession law. To the extent that the right of pre-emption has been exercised, it has resulted in significant administrative tasks and an experience of a complex procedure for interested parties. Removing the right of pre-emption is a good contribution for a simpler Norway. The most important thing, however, is that the State pre-purchase system has too little of the value of agricultural property as a place of residence and starting point for alternative activities, preferably in combination with agriculture. Furthermore, the scheme showed little respect for private ownership and for entered into purchase and sale agreements between private individuals. The left is pleased that today the system of State pre-emption rights is being abolished. With regard to the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen that access to the separation of housing units from agricultural land should be strengthened, the Left has a sense of it and hopes that a reasonable judgement will be based on each local case. But what needs to be stressed in such cases is the obvious danger of future conflicts between those who live close to an agricultural area and those who use the land both for fertiliser spreading and grazing and for other agricultural holdings. There are many examples of such conflicts because of a lack of understanding of what it means to have a land and to live close to an actively managed agricultural area. As regards housing — changes in the eligibility criteria — it is important to remember the multifunctional role of agriculture. The major opportunities offered by new technologies and communication solutions should enhance attractiveness by being able to live on and, where appropriate, run an agricultural property and combine it with other industrial activities. The new time solutions and opportunities open up the possibility of moving to agricultural properties for people with new ideas and competences. It is important to have a framework that allows this to happen. As far as the content of the housing obligation is concerned, the easiest and best way to follow the law of population registration. The Left welcomes the fact that the majority of the Committee provides for as simple a practice as possible. Of course, the profitability of agricultural property is important in terms of the exemption from housing, but it is also important to look at the opportunities for work in the local labour market elsewhere. This is also where commuter distances come in. Today it is possible to obtain an exemption from a dwelling if one operates several properties in the same municipality. The left will point out that there is a need for practical judgement in relation to municipal borders. One has to look at the distance between the properties being operated rather than see if one passes a municipal border or not. A municipal border marks the division of an administrative unit. For a commuter, it is entirely secondary whether or not one is crossing a local border from and to work. This should also be taken into account when exempting residence in cases where agricultural property is operated on different sides of a municipal border. So finally, as the documents show, the Left is involved in some of the majority comments and will, of course, vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e227	St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, and its treatment, show broad agreement on the objectives of agricultural policy. The implementation of the modifications envisaged as a result of the wholesale treatment must take place in stages. The first stage concerning changes in land legislation has been reached when we now examine the proposals in Ot.prp. No 33 for 2000-2001 on the abolition of pre-emption rights, the change of residence and the raising of the land limits in the concession law and the law of the state. When these changes are put into practice, the time has come to work out the other proposals for changes to the land legislation promoted in the agricultural notification. Central in this context is the appointment of a sample to assess the effects of the law of nobility, the general revision of the law of concession and the rules relating to the land lease situation. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 33 have been sent to a wide consultation. The hearing bodies have mainly joined the proposals. The proposal includes proposals for the abolition of the right of pre-emption under the Concession Act. In combination, amendments to Section 8 of the Concession Act are proposed with a view to strengthening the possibilities for achieving the objectives set out in the Law on Earth. These changes allow for the use of concessional waiving as a means of influencing the structure of agricultural use. I perceive the position of the majority of the works committee so that post-legislative refusals can be used to influence the structure of use if the refusal can clearly provide a better social solution in line with the purpose of the concession law. This allows for the use of concessionary concessions in order to achieve cost reductions by combining uses and areas where this is also desirable for residential reasons. I have noticed that a joint committee seems to believe that the practice of the County Agriculture Board relating to the pre-emption rules has contributed to depopulation of the countryside and to preventing the development of industries operating in combination with, or as an alternative to, traditional agriculture. – President, I feel in a bit of a bad shape – I have a little bit of trouble going on. I wonder if I can take a short break?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e242	It's okay. – I suggest that we move on to the list of speakers and that the Council of State should come back. Olav Gedrem gets the word for an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e248	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to essentially raise the concession limit for agricultural property to 20 deches. This is what we see as a adaptation to the law, according to the expectations that people have. Many small property can no longer make a significant wage contribution to the family, excluding intensive operations, for example. greenhouse operations. That's why we think it's right to make these freely translatable. By doing so, we are giving a new ride to the district councils to strengthen construction – a competitive model. During a visit to New Zealand, I saw small farm estates of 15 - 20 decaves that were laid out as bussades. "Lifestyle properties" they call them. These lifestyles were an attractive offer and a good framework for growth and family life. Some were planted with olive trees, fruit trees, vegetables, or flowers. There was a great deal of interest in these properties, although no State aid was granted for any production. For New Zealand, it was also a point that they wouldn't take the best land for such bristles. This will also be an important concern for local communities, and will be a test piece for the management of agricultural property by the community. One important aspect of today's change is that a large group of property under 20 covers will become natural use and no longer traditional agricultural property. I also believe that these assets will provide a positive lifestyle that will provide peace, work in nature and good growth and living conditions. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Concession Act § 5, third paragraph, will still allow municipalities access to the zero limit for settlement requirements. About 70 municipalities are currently using this approach to strengthen the settlement and future of their communities, and to maintain ownership. The Christian People's Party believes that it is positive and right to send a signal about the strengthened settlement requirements of this scheme. Owning agricultural property is a privilege, giving both rights and obligations. Strengthening the obligation is both natural and undesirable. I note that the Ministry will address this zero-limit theme with the municipalities, and I am confident that a sensible practice will be found that is district-enhancing. This new premonition for district municipalities should provide them with a good means of strengthening the bus’s income. After the loss of public pre-emption rights for agricultural property, it will be more relevant to grant concession under conditions. This has gradually been a first-rate and strong tool for achieving reasonable arrears and a reasonable distribution of soil resources. Access to refusal of concessional applications is also a priority and provides access to good solutions to construction concerns and to good management of land resources and natural and cultural values. The Christian People's Party is also looking forward to having a noble-law audit. In this way, it is natural that housing and management will be an important concern in order to have a stronger agriculture. This perspective is very important for the safe supply of food and for the safe development of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e271	Then the Council of State gets the word to complete the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e274	Thank you for that. I just got so dizzy that I found out that it was wise to take a break. I'm hard to move on if I fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e279	It's okay to continue now. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e282	I tried to say that I have noticed that an overall committee seems to believe that the practices of state agricultural governments relating to the pre-buying rules have helped depopulation the countryside and to prevent the development of industries operating in combination with or as an alternative to traditional agriculture. I don't share this perception. In my opinion, governments have done a good and conscientious job. They have just focused on making a serious assessment of any future societal gains. Another thing is to conclude that today, in the light of societal developments, it is no longer desirable to maintain the instrument. Based on Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, the Government has made three different proposals for changes to the rules on housing obligations in respect of the acquisition of agricultural property. The amendments are designed with the aim of contributing to the overall capacity of existing rules to provide a framework for a somewhat more stringent enforcement of the rules on housing. The purpose of the residency is proposed in the scope of the concession law and the content of the compulsory residence obligation is legalised. In this respect, the Government proposed, in accordance with the opinion of the hearing bodies, that it should be assumed that the owner must have his real estate on the property. Furthermore, the government provided that this would be the case if the owner was registered in the public register as resident on the property and at the same time overnight on the property over 70 p.m. of the networks. I note that a majority of the Stortinget today seems to believe that the requirement for accommodation should be at the same level as the requirements of the Law on People's Registration, i.e. 50 pst, and take note of it. Thirdly, the proposal proposes that in the case of an application for exemption from the compulsory residence requirement, particular attention should be paid to the purpose of residence. I perceive the majority position of the Economic and Social Committee so that they want to build up a more stringent practice of the statutory residence obligation, in line with the main emphasis of the opinions expressed in the consultation round. I am pleased with this, but at the same time I would like to make it clear that the balance of the amended legal text provides guidance, needs to be based on more conditions than purely housing considerations. This concerns the relationship and the life situation of the applicant, as well as the size of the property, the return ratio and the household conditions of the applicant. I also draw attention to the fact that in future individual cases it may be difficult to assess whether there is likely to be income opportunities in commuting distance from the property. The proposal also proposes that the land limits of Section 5 of the Concession Act and of Section 2 of the Odel Act be raised. The proposal is justified by a desire to facilitate the more transparent movement of small agricultural properties with potential for settlement. It is based on the fact that most of today’s small agricultural estates have had a declining impact as a workplace for the trader. For these small units, it is the function of living space that is of the greatest social and private importance. In accordance with the deleveraging treatment of the agricultural notification, the land ceiling is proposed for the non-concessional acquisition of land set at 20 decires of total land. The land ceiling for agricultural land is proposed to be raised from 10 decires of agricultural land to 20 decires of agricultural land. Otherwise, I would point out that the change in the concession limit is relevant to all types of built-up property, not just agricultural property. This goes beyond the proposals in St.meld. No 19th@item: However, the land ceiling in today's law also applies to the acquisition of non-agricultural property, and it is natural to maintain this scheme even in the context of an increase in the land border. Enlargement is based on the Economic and Social Committee's proposal to raise the land border by acquiring property for residential or commercial purposes. The Economic and Social Committee promoted this proposal in 1995, and it was sent to a wide-ranging hearing that year. In its proposal, the freedom of concession was linked to the Law on Planning and Building. The solutions in the odelstungsproposition are designed accordingly and in accordance with the input of the hearing bodies to the selection proposals. The rules on entry into force and transitional arrangements are designed in such a way that the changes may take effect as soon as possible. Termination of the right of pre-emption will take place as soon as the law is sanctioned. The suspension will also have an impact on matters to be dealt with at the time of entry into force. The other amendments are proposed to be amended when the King so decides – and the provisions are added as soon as possible. In further work, I aim to ensure that changes in the housing obligation can take effect relatively quickly. However, the changes in the land borders will require a part of post-employment, inter alia. by following up the slightly more than 70 municipalities which have today introduced the zero concession limit. At this point, it is also important to avoid undue speculation in real estate that municipalities are prepared for their new room of action related to the possibilities of securing their residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e299	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e302	I will first address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right and that have been referred to in the vote. Of course, there's every reason to enjoy the small steps you're going in the future in the right direction, even though the Right would have liked to have seen that we could have gone a lot fresher up and up in these questions. It is positive that there is a step further on the road with regard to increasing the area limit, and it is positive that attempts are being made to partially abolish the right to buy. But I think that when you use a lot of honorary words about ‘maintaining the basic features of the settlement’, and when you want to avoid dividing up the property structure in rural areas, someone in this room should stick their finger in the ground, someone should see what's the reality picture. The barley-Norway is being depopulated, and the number of spreads of properties has not fallen. In my home country, Nordland, we have approx. 3 500 so-called active farmers, using from 5 Decor and upwards. The number of properties of these farmers is 17 000, a level that is the same as 50 years ago. There is no need to stand here and claim to be a member of robust ownership, when there is no single incentive to ensure that a policy is promoted that allows the farmer to be the owner of his own use. Today we see that up to 70 pst. of the active farmers have to rent themselves land, as an addition to the one they own themselves. Sons and daughters – who, of course, are not allowed to buy neither a dislocated farm nor land – are almost asked to invest their capital in the city, and they do so happily. Here they can buy 100 m2 for 1 million. SEK – 3 million. kr – without the commitment to doing anything about it being so big. The same sons and daughters are given the opportunity to sit in town and be landlords to the farmers whom we would have preferred to have seen more could have been allowed to become owners of their own farm and land. That's my recommendation to the Council of State – when he gets here, and I hope that he does very quickly. I understand that he has many large and heavy tasks, which in these days lie on his shoulders. As for the next step in his reform work, I would like him to be happy to address the lifting of the public price fixing, because that is the way you have to go, if you are not going to continue to cultivate a policy that ensures that you have the purest low-price stamp on Building Norway. It hasn't speeded up Building Norway, which has led to the request to invest its capital and its interest in the city. This is a policy that the Right wants to turn on. We need that strength to get a little bit of excitement around. In any case, the Council of State should now take an initiative to take some further steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e317	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e320	The content of public and concession laws relating to personal housing, compulsory employment, price regulation and State pre-purchase rights should have been abolished for the longest time here in Norway, as in most other countries. Odel and concession legislation only represents a regulatory policy for those who have not yet seen the structural problems of Norwegian agricultural and rural policies. Release the turnover and allow the agricultural property to be sold as freely as possible! The market must determine the rural structure of agriculture in the future, rather than legislation, politicians, bureaucrats and subsidies. Today’s well-regulated agricultural and district policies are on the wane. It provides enormous system costs and little or no value creation. Public governance of independent farmers is, in my view, unheard of in today's modern Norway. Today's failed, well-regulated agricultural policy must be replaced by a general framework for agriculture and the use of market and price mechanisms, rather than state regulation and subsidies. In the long run, we have little or nothing to gain from the detailed regulation of agriculture and Building Norway through legislation and bureaucracy. What's happened in the last 25 years is just proof of this. Agriculture goes slowly, but safely down and home, and the flow from the districts into the cities is larger than ever. The buildings must be opened to people from outside, without the great barriers of law that we have today. Creative farmers must get away with it. Today these are banned because of the law. Therefore, the County of Norway's biggest hustle and bustle, noble and concession law, needs to be relaxed – yes, ask a me, they should preferably be abolished. Any property in that country should be traded freely, without State interference, and at the price that someone is willing to pay. Any private property should be capable of being used for the purpose for which the owner himself deems best, without a state obligation to reside or operate or otherwise. In the end, I would say that although agricultural policy is a major pillar of rural policy, it is nevertheless that the unaltered population and housing patterns in the countryside themselves are not an objective. However, if we are to succeed in achieving this goal, it is necessary to streamline such legislation as the law of the nobility and concession in Norway and to eliminate it completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e335	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e343	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e349	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen proposed no. 2 – 4, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right proposal No. 5, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and representative Terje Knudsen Proposal No. 1, from Right, the Advance Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen reads: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent study of the actual importance of the housing obligation for the residence and other activities and developments in the districts.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we go to voting on the legislative text, the President will vote on proposal No. 5, by the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen, with regard to the repeal of the concession law. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e423	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from Right, to § 1 nr. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The concession law shall be amended as follows: 4 shall be replaced by the following:4. allowing the widest possible access to real estate.’;» The Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e451	Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e557	The first sentence is preceded by an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2, from Right: ‘Section 5, first paragraph, point (c) The first sentence of the first sentence shall be replaced by the following:2. built-in property, provided that the property is not larger than 50 dekar.» The recommendation from the Committee to the first sentence shall be replaced by the proposal from the Right. The Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen support the right-wing subsidiary proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e578	The second sentence of Section 5, first paragraph, No. 2 is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e597	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from Right: ‘Section 6, first paragraph, point (c) 1 second sentence shall be replaced by the following:In the case of land and forest property over 50 deches, the freedom of concession shall be conditional upon the transferee settling on the property or in the municipality within a year and operating the property itself for at least 5 years.’;» The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Here too, the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e652	Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e770	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from Right: «The law of title and the right of residence shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 27 shall be replaced by the following: He who takes over the property by nobility shall be obliged to reside in the property or in the municipality and shall reside there and run the property for 10 years.He who otherwise takes over the ownership of which he has no right to reside in the property or in the municipality within 1 year and shall reside there and run the property for 5 years.He who owns several agricultural property which has been run together for the last 5 years shall comply with the obligation to reside on one of the property.However, the obligation shall not apply if the person who takes over the property is related to the last owner in the straight-up and descending line.§ 27 a shall read:The department may, on application, grant exemption from the obligation to work after paragraph 27, wholly or for a period of time. In addition, consideration shall be given to the size of the user, the types of return and the ownership of the property and whether the applicant already has ownership in the municipality. It shall also be taken into account whether the property is owned in the same way.Depending on the application for exemption from the obligation to operate, it shall be taken into account whether in the area where the property is situated there is a use for the agricultural area as an additional area. Consideration must also be given to the importance of maintaining the agricultural area in question.When, in the case of a no partial or a public shift, an application is made for exemption from the requirement of a bus and service obligation, the court shall stay the final decision on the case until the issue of exemption is settled.» The vote will be taken at the next voting time. The Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e831	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from Right, to Section 12 new third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: «The third paragraph of Section 12 of the Land Act shall be replaced by the following:Consent to division shall be given in the general rule where the application relates to the property of its buildings with a floor of up to 5 beds if there is an agreement on the salsation of the residual area in accordance with the purpose of Section 1.The present third paragraph shall become the fourth paragraph, etc.» The Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e890	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30-lower.ana.ud117e899	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
