ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e36	From 3 December to 6 December, and from the representatives of Åge Konradsen, Finn Kristian Marthinen and Per Ove Width, all to take part in the 47th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris, there is an application for leave from 3 December to 6 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the County of Buskerud: Unni Hennum LieFor More and Romesdal counties: Ola T. HeggemFor Troms County: Anna Amdal FyhnFor the counties of Vestfold: Vidar Andersen3. Vidar Andersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e86	I am pleased to be able to give the Storting a presentation of the latest developments in international climate negotiations. Three weeks ago, the Marrakech Climate Summit was an important milestone in the fight against man-made climate change. Agreement was reached here on the international regulatory framework for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and it should now be clear that the Protocol can be ratified by enough countries to allow its entry into force. Global environmental problems require cooperation on global solutions. This is particularly true for man-made climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented its third main report earlier this year. The report gives us even more clear evidence that human activity leads to climate change. There has undoubtedly been global warming in the last 50 years, and most of this is probably due to man-made changes. If these developments continue, they may have disastrous consequences both in terms of increased temperature, extreme weather conditions, increased desertification, ice melting and sea rise. Increased concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and the inertia of the climate system make global warming inevitable. We therefore need to prepare for climate change, although Norway and other countries are implementing emission reduction measures in the future. In Norway, annual temperature and rainfall are likely to increase. There will also be more storms and more extreme weather, which can be both unpleasant and very costly for us who live here in the country. Nevertheless, climate change impacts are much greater for the poorest developing countries, because lack of resources makes them poorly equipped to adapt to climate change. At the same time, these countries have only made a small contribution to the problems. Norway and other rich countries therefore have a moral responsibility both to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to remedy the consequences. In order to stop global warming, we need to start reducing global greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible. The measures we put in place to reduce current emissions could limit long-term climate change and adverse effects. Industrialised countries need to reduce their emissions. At the same time, we need a global solution that also facilitates emission reductions and later reductions in developing countries. The entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol will be an important step in the right direction. Although the Kyoto Protocol only adds about 5 pst. reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in developed countries in the years 2008 to 2012 compared to 1990 levels, and this level of ambition has been reduced since the United States said no to the Protocol, nevertheless it is a milestone in global efforts to combat man-made climate change. On the basis of the Marrakech meeting, the political agreement of the Conference of the Parties in Bonn was held in July this year. This agreement clarified many policy issues but failed to finalise key decision-making texts. In Bonn, there was a consensus on issues of major importance to developing countries. This mainly concerns the financing of technology transfer, the build-up of competences and measures for adaptation to a changed climate. A group of countries, including the EU, Norway, Canada, Iceland, New Zealand and Switzerland, promised a funding level of 410 million. 2005 dollar. I consider this financial breakthrough to be very important also for the further cooperation with developing countries under the UNFCCC. From the Norwegian side, we will follow our financial responsibility and continue to seek active cooperation with developing countries in the field of climate change. It's absolutely crucial. The main objective of the Marrakech meeting was to complete the remaining questions related to the Kyoto Protocol, thereby providing a basis for ratification. The negotiations included decisions relating to the Kyoto Mechanism legislation, compliance regime legislation and control mechanisms, such as accounting systems, reporting and review of information. Norway has cooperated throughout all years in the negotiations on the Kyoto Protocol in the so-called umbrella group, which also participates in Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Russia, Ukraine and the United States. Since then, the United States has not actively participated in the negotiations on the Kyoto Protocol. There was a challenging situation in Marrakech. The largest countries in the umbrella group had problems with some of the remaining questions. I was concerned that this could overturn the possibilities of an overall agreement or lead to the eroding of the obligations of the Kyoto Protocol. I therefore chose to make it clear early that Norway was able to accept a solution proposal that was also accepted by the EU and the group of developing countries. Norway was thus at the forefront of the umbrella group. In my opinion, the Norwegian behaviour in Marrakech helped to lay the groundwork for the final negotiated solution. Finally, finding solutions that could be accepted by other countries from the umbrella group was essential for the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol. The Marrakech Agreement provides the basis for global cooperation through the use of the so-called Kyoto mechanisms. Agreement has been reached on a comprehensive regulatory framework for international trading of allowances and project-based cooperation on emission reductions between developed countries, joint implementation, and project-based cooperation between developed countries and developing countries, the so-called green development mechanism. There was also an agreement on compliance rules, and that is very important. Countries that do not meet their obligations in the first period must resume both arrears and a supplement of 30 pst. in the next period. In addition, they will lose the right to sell emission credits and they will have to submit a plan to restore their ability to comply with the obligations. I am very pleased that for the first time we have obtained an international environmental agreement in which countries will be punished if they do not fulfil their obligations. There is too little in international environmental cooperation and in international environmental treaties. This is an important breakthrough in international environmental policy. I also hope that it will have an effect on other areas of the Convention. Because if we're going to achieve environmental results, we're totally dependent on both setting timetables, and there's criminal reactions related to those who don't. That is why it is interesting now in front of Johannesburg, where Norway also supports a so-called global deal initiative, that is to say that some changes are being made to international climate treaties, including proposals for reinforcements in other areas, setting deadlines and requirements, and achieving a dynamic in the international environmental co-operation that is absolutely crucial. In addition, we also need a stronger international environmental architecture in view of the fact that organisations can also face the UN environment. I'll come back to that on a later occasion. However, the question of the extent to which the Kyoto system is legally binding was postponed to the first meeting of the Parties under the Kyoto Protocol. In Marrakech, we also set up a comprehensive system for the preparation, reporting and control of information on how to comply with their obligations. In my opinion, this is the ‘backbone’ of cooperation: a credible reporting system is essential for this to work. In Bonn, agreement was reached on the way in which greenhouse gas uptake can be credited to the liabilities of the countries during the first commitment period. Limits were set on the amount a country can be credited as a result of forest management admissions. For most countries it is about 3 pst. of emissions in 1990. The forest management was not discussed again in Marrakech, but it was nevertheless necessary to accept an extension of the framework for the crediting of forest management measures for Russia to around 4 p.m. of their 1990 level, i.e. 1 pst. above the average level for the other countries. This was an extension the Norwegian government was against and is against. Because Russia’s participation is absolutely necessary for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol – after the United States has unfortunately refused the agreement – there was still agreement among all countries to accept the Russian requirement to get at all an agreement in port. Four years after the Kyoto meeting, we now have a basis for ratification of the agreement. For the first time, we have a climate agreement with: mandatory emission reduction legislation for implementation, including: systems for international trading of allowances and implementation of emission reductions across national compliance legislation, i.e. action against countries that do not comply – in good Norwegian terms, which is very important The government will now start immediately the national work on ratification, so that the Storting can deal with the matter in spring 2002. Through early ratification, the government wants Norway to contribute to the entry into force of the agreement at the Johannesburg Environment and Development Summit in September next year. With the result we achieved in Marrakech, the negotiations on emissions commitments after 2012 will be the most important task ahead of us in the international climate work. The Kyoto Protocol was obviously greatly weakened when the United States, regrettably, withdrew earlier this year. The countries that today accept commitments under the Protocol are responsible for a limited proportion of emissions, since neither the United States nor developing countries are included. In other words, there is a need for both tighter and more comprehensive emission obligations over time than is foreseen in the first period of the Kyoto Protocol. I am counting on developed countries to agree on tighter emissions commitments after 2012, but a more ambitious climate agreement should also include the United States and key developing countries with strong emissions growth. Good dialogue with the United States and leading developing countries will therefore be very important in the future. Preparations for the negotiations on new emissions obligations must start right now. The government wants Norway to play an active role in this work. That there is reason to be satisfied with a successful outcome of the climate negotiations does not mean that we can take a break. We're not going to do this. The Marrakech Summit brings us to the starting line. That's when the real work begins. It is necessary to strengthen international efforts to ensure that we can meet our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. The government of Stoltenberg laid out before summer St.meld. No 54 on Norwegian climate policy – climate communication. That Communication proposes to continue the current CO2 tax in the short term, combined with the use of agreements with industry that do not pay such charges. The cooperative government has announced an offensive climate policy. We have therefore been working on an additional communication for the climate communication, where the introduction of an early quota system will be central. In the additional Communication, we will emphasise that a significant part of the emission reductions will be achieved through national measures. Today’s charges are unlikely to lead to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and other measures are therefore necessary. Compliance with Norway’s emission obligations will entail costs. But it will cost more in the long run not to. The challenge is to put in place a most cost-effective climate policy while at the same time respecting the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. I think the most effective approach is to speed up the creation of a greenhouse gas allowance system, and not to wait until 2008, as the previous government suggested. An allowance system is forward-looking and will prepare Norway for the system that comes into force when the Kyoto Protocol enters into force. In order to provide us with experience and to ensure that we meet our obligations, it is important to start as quickly as possible. Similar work is already under way both in the EU and national in Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom. It is also gratifying to record that there is now a broad political consensus on the need for a national quota system in Norway. It is gratifying that the Marrakech climate summit had a successful outcome and that the basis has now been laid for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. The government wants Norway to be a leading nation in the fight against climate change. We want to start early on with forward-looking instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And we want to play an active role in achieving further international climate change after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e178	The President will now propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to a contribution of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and, where appropriate, a final statement from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment. No objection has been raised – it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e183	The agreement on an agreement in Marrakech is an important step forward in putting the Kyoto agreement into practice. There is every reason to give the participants in Marrakech, including the Norwegian negotiating delegation, a reward for the work that was done, and that they finally succeeded in reaching an agreement. A crucial element, as the Minister for Environment said, is an agreement that includes Russia, and then it was important to give them major concessions regarding the uptake of CO2 into forests. In the case of crediting for admission to forests and soil, so-called zinc, there has been a great deal of disagreement about this in previous negotiations. Norway and the EU have agreed to reject this, while other countries in the umbrella group have made this an absolute requirement. At this point, Norway and the EU have been in line with the Scientific Committee, which has consistently assumed that the zinc mechanisms will only be used after the development of scientific criteria, and mainly after the end of the Kyoto Agreement. As we know, the EU and we had to give in to this point during the negotiations in Bonn this summer, which also meant that Norway has been credited with our forest. But that doesn't mean we have to make use of this possibility. In the view of the Labour Party, this is an area in which Norway should take the lead. In the light of the concerns expressed by the Scientific Committee and the negotiating positions of the Stoltenberg Government over the negotiations in Bonn, we believe that Norway must continue to have as its starting point that forests should not be included in our further work on the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement. Therefore, this is not mentioned as an instrument in the climate communication either. I therefore want to challenge the Government to clarify its position at this point. After the Marrakech meeting, the impression is that Norway has broken with the umbrella country group. That's not the case. In its statement, the Council of State stressed that Norway expressed disagreement with the so-called umbrella group in Marrakech. It is not new that Norway disagrees with this group on important issues, for example: recording in forest. Norway has also long been a driver of legally binding sanctions related to the Kyoto obligations themselves, while several countries in the umbrella group have been opposed. Former Minister of Environmental Protection Siri Bjerke was central to this and provided a good basis for achieving results. I am therefore pleased that the Bondevik II administration has so clearly followed up the previous government at this point. The basis for ratifying the Kyoto Agreement has now been laid down. The working party considers it important that the agreement be ratified as quickly as possible. That is why I look forward to the Government promoting a case on this for the Stortinget, and to promoting it so early that Norway can ratify the agreement in good time before the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in September 2002. I have previously expressed impatience after getting started with Storting's treatment of the climate message. The working party considers it urgent to initiate national measures. Important steps forward on the road must not be delayed pending clarifications in the Stortinget. The Minister for the Environment has announced that the additional communication for the Climate Change Communication will come in March next year. After I understand, the government needs so much time, among other things. because a wish to make a concrete proposal to the national quota system. But when the State Council here claims that the Workers' Party had agreed that one should wait until after 2008 to introduce a national quota system, it is wrong. I would like, among other things: show that we in the Workers' Party, together with the Right, launched this in the setting of the energy message from Bondevik I. The working party has been the driver of a national quota system, which is also reflected in the Climate Change Communication. The benefits and disadvantages of different models of a national quota system are discussed so that the size could make assessments and provide the necessary signals for further work. When the government now signals that it wants to go further also because the processes have come further at this point, I expect that we will be presented with a concrete proposal that the Storting can decide on, so that we do not lose even more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e200	First, thank you to the Council of State for a thorough presentation! There is every reason to pay tribute to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Burnde, both for the final outcome of the negotiations in Marrakech and for his own efforts in the climate negotiations. In the Sem Declaration, the Co-operation Government stated that Norway should pursue an offensive environmental policy, and this was carried out in a very good way by the Council of State and his negotiating delegation. It shall have the political courage to demonstrate the firmness made apparent by Norway breaking out of the umbrella group during the negotiations. I share the opinion of the Council of State that the Norwegian behaviour greatly contributed to laying the groundwork for the final negotiated solution. Environmental challenges are comprehensive both at national and international level. Our technology and prosperity development has had its price, not least on the environmental side. Few disagree with the fact that climate change we see the contours of, in whole or in part, is a result of this. These problems are global, and global problems require global solutions. We know how difficult it can be to agree on national issues. Then it doesn't take much imagination to see the extent of it achieving consensus globally. Counterpols are many, not least between developed countries and developing countries. In the negotiations it was among other things. talk about important elements such as the regime of compliance, control and sanctioning, all of which are of great importance to each country. On the basis of this complexity, it has to be considered as a milestone in our dealing with climate issues that the negotiations resulted in an agreement. It was important in itself to establish an agreement that could be ratified and form the basis for addressing these global challenges. Rather, we will see through the question of the extent to which this system should be legally binding and that a country such as Russia can take advantage of its power position to increase its framework for the crediting of forest management measures. It is easy to support the desire for an offensive climate policy, and that the co-operation administration clearly sees this as an important area. But this investment has its costs; not least for business. It is a challenge to balance the desire for offensive environmental policies while taking into account the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. For business there is no disadvantage to Norway as an energy nation can have a stamp as a priority country and be offensive in relation to environmental issues. Being demanding environmental standards can in itself generate business opportunities, because it demands our industry and technology. Industry, technology and knowledge in the environment and good environmental solutions are a growth area both nationally and internationally. Nevertheless, we have to be careful about sending the bill for our environmentally offensive attitude in its entirety to the business community. We need to work together on solutions and be responsive to the views and needs of business in these developments. Here we have a challenge in the future. That is why I am pleased that the Cooperation Government has clearly stated in the Sem Declaration: «New measures and instruments shall also take into account the competitiveness of industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e227	I agree with the Minister for the Environment that the Kyoto Agreement is very weakened, but it is not sufficiently weakened, unfortunately! In our view, the agreement is also defective. It is no secret that the Progress Party is very sceptical of the so-called climate agreement that was agreed in Marrakech. I would first like to say a few words about the background because we are critical of the climate agreement. Emissions of so-called greenhouse gases have become politically important in recent decades, when industrialised countries, especially Norway, have taken on huge commitments to reduce emissions. Climate policy, for which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change alone is a precursor, is highly debated, not least in economic and professional environments outside the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and therefore, in our view, rests on an incomplete scientific basis. There should be a reasonable degree of consistency between emissions and climate impact before any interventional regulation is put into effect at enormous costs. It is a fact that climate change is a natural part of earth’s evolution and has been going on at all times. The debate on climate change is primarily about whether human activity contributes to accelerating or changing the natural course of climate change. As I said, this issue is highly debated, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change bases its estimates on an incomplete scientific basis, without taking into account other disciplines. Human emissions are so limited in relation to nature’s own production of greenhouse gases that it is equally likely that human activity is not the cause of climate change that researchers believe has been identified. The Progress Party believes that so-called climate-friendly efforts by industry can be mobilised through voluntary agreements and international quota trade, which in practice includes all countries that are responsible for the largest emissions. For the Progress Party, it is important that environmental and climate taxes are harmonised internationally in order to avoid distortions of competition. One gets the impression that the politically correct view is that all climate changes are due to greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels. We are calling for a more open and open debate on the premises of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and we believe that researchers who have counter-representatives of today's climate policy will also be heard, thereby providing a broader basis for political decisions. So to the trade agreement there was an agreement in Marrakech. There can be no doubt that there is a trade agreement here. For the climate panel predictions and forecasts, anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by 70-80 pst. in order not to affect the climate. I think that's going to be quite problematic to get to, to say it mildly. There is a lot of evidence that the trade agreement is bad for Norway and Norwegian interests. The United States, which is responsible for enormous CO2 emissions, is not part of the agreement. Russia and some other important countries have been given great concessions that benefit their interests. I have no doubt that the Minister for the Environment will do what is possible to implement Norway’s obligations, which will reduce Norwegian oil and gas revenues and lead to distortions of competition for Norwegian industry, with the risk of loss of Norwegian industrial jobs. And there will certainly be new and increased charges. In other words, good SV policy. It is not without reason that SV applauds the agreement and pays tribute to SV’s Minister for the Environment – apologies, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e248	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the briefing, and I would like to repeat the praise I have given the Minister in the past: I was both surprised and impressed by his efforts in the negotiations in Marrakech, especially about the way he hit the table against the wretched countries that were just trying to erode the Kyoto agreement. In addition, a number of positive signals have also emerged in retrospect, which I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister: as is well known at the Bonn Conference of the Parties in July this year, it was possible to include forests as part of the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. For Norway, this is an increase from 1 to 3 pst. more than emissions in 1990. In Marrakech, Russia used these forest figures as a breaker and worked to increase their numbers, which unfortunately they also succeeded. So in reality, this meant eroding the Kyoto commitments. As you know, the total commitments are already far below what is necessary if we are to manage to reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. I was therefore very pleased that the Minister in the Questionnaire two weeks ago was able to confirm that he did not want Norway to take advantage of this loophole in the agreement, and that we therefore stand firm on the basis of Kyoto to only increase our emissions by 1 pst. relative to 1990 levels. To quote the Minister: ‘When it comes to eroding the Kyoto Protocol and the Bonn Agreement and what we have done in Marrakech, I am totally opposed to it. On the contrary, you can question whether we are ambitious enough.’ This was an answer that naturally warmed an SV heart as banks for the environment. But at the same time, in the light of this, I must be allowed to ask the Minister if he feels that the state budget that is now on the table is a suitable tool in terms of a more ambitious climate policy. Although it is produced as an environmental budget, it is a fact that the government parties in the finance committee reduced the environmental protection ministry framework, making it less than the Stoltenberg government had proposed in its budget – a budget that was initially, as usual, miserable in the environment. Is the Minister comfortable with this reduction? And what is the strategy he sees in the further negotiations with the national strangleholds? In addition to a national greenhouse gas allowance system, the idea of another type of allowance system has also been aired from this speaker. In SV, we have a strong and heartfelt desire that those who, without being ashamed of the slightest bit of neighbor, distrust the IPCC and the existence of climate problems should not have any further influence on the country's environmental policy. One of the major national challenges facing greenhouse gas emissions is to overcome all the small, dispersed emissions. In relation to this challenge, there is another thing that has pleased me recently, namely the Minister's expressed support for the idea of an Agenda 21 fund. This may be an important incentive for the many local conversion processes needed to reduce emissions. So even though the minister did not find room for this fund within the framework of this autumn, I expect this to be something the minister will come back to the Stortinget with in revised form. For, as I pointed out in the debate on the Government's Declaration of Accession, this Minister will have enough if he will! Alternatively, I am afraid that the Minister’s flagship to Johannesburg, Local Agenda 21, will suffer about the same fate as ‘Titanic’. But the fight against the large point emissions is something we don't get away with either. Fortunately, the construction of gas power plants in Forests seems to be an increasingly less profitable project. But I wish the government had been able to slow down its efforts after jumping for the Snow White project with tax subsidies. There is reason to ask whether the approach adopted in this matter will be characteristic of the Government's environmental policy: first, it subsidises greenhouse gas emissions, so that they become profitable, and then evaluate the environmental impact. Is building a subsidised, highly polluting gas power plant an important contribution to meeting the Kyoto Protocol? The question is therefore: When will we see a more offensive attitude towards these types of projects? When will we see a fresh and tough minister here at home as in Marrakech – a minister who dares to take an active stand on the national challenges? The Kyoto agreement itself is far from sufficient to prevent global warming, and everyone with some insight into this problem knows that it needs to be stronger if we are to be able to reverse developments. The Kyoto period is therefore only a taste of even stronger reduction requirements. So the question is: Is the Minister as tough at home – especially towards the self-choice of the Government – as in the big world?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e277	I would first like to thank the Minister for his good report on the progress of the negotiations in Marrakech. It was a round of negotiations that brought us a long and important step forward in the work on binding emission reductions. But as the council itself clearly points out, the road is still long to go, there is a lot of work to be done. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norway was contributing to a negotiated solution in Marrakech. The fact that we broke out of the Umbrella Group and announced that we placed great emphasis on a solution proposal that was also accepted by the EU and developing countries, we believe was an important factor in getting the negotiations ashore at all. We also refer to the response that the Council of State has earned for its commitment to Marrakech. It was also noted by a number of environmental organisations. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of States which, in its contribution, underlined the moral responsibility of Norway and other rich countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to remedy the consequences that these emissions have already brought. In its presentation, the Minister for the Environment, Mr Brende, pointed out the progress made in Marrakech on the implementation of the agreement. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to add up a system that is difficult and cost-effective to try to cheat away. This is why we share the view of the Council of State that it is a significant environmental breakthrough that an international agreement has been reached on the environment for the first time where countries will be penalised if they fail to fulfil their obligations. There is reason to be glad that Norway and the Government were a driving force to get this right during the negotiations in Marrakech. The Council of State underlined that the Co-operation Government will pursue an offensive climate policy and warned of the delay in presenting proposals for a national quota system by 2005 in order to make progress and results visible. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the work is being carried out, partly because it requires that we get started quickly, partly because it is important that we recognise that a substantial part of the emission reductions must be done domestically. It is also important that we gain the necessary experience with a national quota system, so that we are better rusted when the Kyoto Protocol comes into operation. In the State budget, the Co-operation Board will inter alia: spend 50 million. kr to a research package on CO2-free gas power plants technology. This is an important contribution, one of many, but a very visible contribution to the Government's taking this challenge seriously, and that we want to accommodate nationally so that we can take our share of responsibility, in line with what is the Kyoto agreement's intention. Norway and the rich countries have a moral responsibility for working with an international climate agreement. This applies both to reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions and to measures to address the consequences of our emissions. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister for the Environment points to this responsibility, and believes that the work on financing technology transfer, competence building and adaptation to a changing climate are important steps that Norway still needs to actively contribute to. The Christian People's Party believes that this is now a solid basis for a new course, not only in international climate work, but also in relation to Norwegian efforts in this area. We look forward to the additional communication on climate policy, which the Council of State has announced will come to Stortinget during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e298	First, I thank you for nice words, at least largely, that have come about the government's climate policy. I am also pleased that many parties now announce that they will be involved in a joint effort to encourage Norway to enter into binding climate agreements internationally in the future. This is important, and I think it's a broad majority on the Stortinget who will work for it. It is right that the Cooperative Government wants an offensive climate policy. As I also said in my post, we now want to focus our attention on what is going to happen after 2012. As no one has raised any objections to my ambitions at that point, I assume that it must be seen as a support in relation to the fact that we must now be more ambitious in terms of the reduction of 5 pst. which was introduced on the basis of 1990. Especially after the Americans withdrew and Russia has been credited more with forest management, it is important that we are also more ambitious. In that case, I think that is an important signal. One of the reasons we broke with the umbrella group at an early stage in Marrakech on a political basis was that they had six proposals on the table that we could not accept from Norway. We felt that the agreement presented by the developing countries, the G77 countries and the EU was an agreement that we could recommend that the Stortinget ratify. I announced early at an umbrella group meeting that Norway could accept what was now on the table, and that in that situation we broke out on a political basis. I also announced this in a plenary meeting. It aroused a certain interest that one of the countries that have been in the umbrella group all the way told us that we could accept what was on the table. I believe that it created a development in the matter. In many ways, we became a link between the umbrella group, the EU countries and the G-77 countries – we went a little between them, and finally, the umbrella group also reduced its demands from six proposals, which would have meant a hollowing out of the whole agreement, to two evictions that you could live with, in order to get an agreement in a box so that you did not risk having large countries like Japan and Canada withdrawing. The next day, the Japanese Minister for the Environment announced that they would add to the ratification process. And the night we got the deal in place, it started to rain in Marrakech. It had not, it was said to me, in several years. So I think it was an important agreement we made – more obligating than what it looked like at some point. I think it is very good that I have now received full support at home for Norway to pursue an active and offensive climate policy on the international stage. Compared to the climate notification available and the additional notification notified by the Cooperation Government, this will not lead to any delays. The point is that the previous government also provided for the treatment of the climate notification in the spring session, and since the co-operation government will therefore present an additional message that will come in March, the Stortinge will be able to deal with the climate notification in the spring session as planned. The only change is that, hopefully, there will be a more obligating climate notification because there will also be measures in relation to a national quota system. It is true that, in the course of their journey, the EU has also announced that they will go for this, but both Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom had already notified it in spring, when the previous government submitted the climate report. But I notice that the previous government was actually also in favour of a national quota system. The point was that the previous government presented a proposal on agreements between industry and the state, and on using the CO2 mechanisms. I am very pleased that Sylvia Brustad’s representative has now announced that the Workers’ Party will also support the introduction of a national quota system before 2008, among others. in view of the fact that the EU has also notified this now. As I said in Stortinget 14 days ago, the government has no plans to open up forest management to be included in Norway's CO2 accounting. So at that point, the government is in line with what the Workers' Party announced today, so I'm actually hoping for a really good cooperation with the big parties in the Stortinget on these questions. I have no reason to believe anything else. So that we need to have a more ambitious national climate policy. We are notifying new measures after 2012. The new government has announced a difficult package in order to carry out the implementation of CO2-free gas power plants. We have said that we prefer it to conventional gas power stations. We have put forward an environmental budget which, in the case of the Ministry of Environment's budget, is 6 million. kr larger than the Stoltenberg government. In total, the environmental effort of the Government's budget is 100 million. kr greater than the previous government because you have invested 50 million. kr more on energy savings and CO2-free gas energy research on the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and 50 million. kr more on public transport. These are signs of how environmental work will be prioritised in the future. The co-operation management wants to be an environmental management. We want to bet more on the environment, we want to bet cross-sectorally, because we understand that these things are related. So I hope, as I said, for a good cooperation with the Stortinge here, and that we will also get through in the budget the increased environmental effort underlying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e319	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for the Environment on the climate negotiations in Marrakech be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e335	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e351	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e359	Then we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-29.ana.ud2573e398	There is no record.
