ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e25	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e34	Today, we are going to adopt another reform that will provide better job-solving between the different levels of government, and the new county municipality, as it is called, will be given new tasks. There have been and are shared opinions about what can be the best model, which will provide the most renewal and the best service production. I'm assuming that the different parties are preparing for their vision. But probably the head of the Task Distribution Committee, Lars Wilhelmsen, has something right when he says that it should be natural to start with the municipal division and not base today's municipal structure. Wilhelmsen admits that the task-sharing committee's work is suspended because the municipal division was not part of the committee's mandate. The Workers' Party's proposal for a new solution to the problem is now given a majority. It is the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV who agree on this. Now I don't think most people are concerned with what level solves what, it's probably more a practice for state politicians and municipal politicians. I think that most people are more concerned about whether the service is provided when they need it, and that their tax money goes to something reasonable. Otherwise, I think the newspaper's publication yesterday of people's views on public services was nice reading in that way. Most people are very satisfied, and that indicates, I think, that the municipalities are good service providers. The task-sharing reform may be described as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox Detail management of the local government sector will be reduced.2. Multiple tasks for municipalities.3. The county councils are given increased responsibility for the development of society in the region.4. Regional central government is becoming much clearer. Renewal of the public sector is not just to remove unnecessary red tape, rules and reports, renewal is also to decentralise tasks and authority from the state to lower elected levels. The relationship between the State and the local government sector needs to become more a partnership and new governance needs to be based on guidance and dialogue. The county now has several development tasks, such as: agriculture and the environment. This is now subject to political judgement and control. The county is also given increased responsibility for planning, transport, business development and culture. But there are no changes in the state breakdown now. Here we believe that local freedom of action must be real. But we know that there's a lot of sensible work going on, to say it like that. Many states have made it visible that they want to join forces, for example: East Agder and West Agder, Uppland and Hedmark, Vestfold, Buskerud and Telemark. But a contraction to fewer counties must be a natural process, correct with some carrots. When it can be a reality, I'm not going to predict, but in three to five years I think we might see a different state structure. In other words, we're not adopting regions now, and I'm saying now. What we're going to decide is that the regional elected level should be maintained, with a few more new tasks. And one might wonder. If things were to go so wrong, I would argue that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will have a majority in the next big deal, what about the County Commune? Is it going to be closed? In the case of regions, I have recorded the debate on having five-eight regions in Norway under popular governance. I would warn against Norway developing so that we get state/regional ministers with all this. The economic resources shall be used for services and not for a new bureaucratic level. There is a difference between the Europe of the regions with 400 million people and small Norway with 4 million, just to have said it. There is a great deal to say about the role of the county council as mediator and supervisor, on the notification of tasks and on the various proposals of the government, on the experience and opportunities of inter-municipal cooperation, on the right of objection, on the development role of the county council and on the objective of making the county plan work more binding. Here, there is a somewhat different view, but throughout, the exercise of discretion should lie in a popular political body. The important thing is that we don't now fill up the third level just to have done it, but that we think carefully through what we want to achieve – and for who. I would also like to refer to the setting. I think we are getting a democracy reform with what is now proposed and that recruitment to elected work can once again be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e77	The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a strongly regionally elected level of government that can promote good regional policies and be a forum for cooperation in regional matters. Unfortunately, we must note that the Government does not promote sufficient concrete proposals for the decentralisation of powers for regional development work in the counties. The Christian People's Party is afraid that the Government's proposal for the division of tasks will lead to a guided liquidation of the county council, because it will lack important operational and authority tasks. If the new county is to have legitimacy and space for action, the county must be entrusted with several tasks. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the role of the county council in trade, labour market, industrial development, knowledge and empowerment. The Christian People's Party believes it is wrong that the Stortinget deals with the future organisation and structure of heavy sector issues, such as: hospital, SND and transport, before considering the division of tasks between state, county and municipality. This leads to a lack of holistic thinking about where the different problems can best be solved. The division of tasks should be defined before addressing each sector. This would certainly give you the best complete solutions. The communication we are discussing today should provide the basic framework for the organisation and structuring of major public tasks. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the tasks are solved at the lowest possible level, so that they become close to the inhabitants. It is also important that citizens have an influence in their own municipality and region. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is following up the central government's efforts to simplify Norway. The central government launched the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ in June 2000. When the government took over Stoltenberg, the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ was integrated into this government’s public sector renewal project. We regret having to note, according to a report from the NHO, that this work has been stopped or has been very delayed. Let me stress that the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ also included the public sector. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to focus on the renewal of the public sector, so that citizens feel that the administration takes care of their interests and meets their needs. There has to be a stronger interaction between the levels of government and a stronger link between the population and the administration. The Christian People's Party believes that the responsibility for hospitals should lie in the county municipalities, and has opposed the state acquisition of hospitals. But when it has now become the state to take over the hospitals, we believe it is important that negotiations be held between each county municipality and the state. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposed settlement between the county councils and the state will lead to that many county councils will not have sufficient finances to carry out their tasks. This is perceived by many as state robbery. This could not at least lead to major cuts in high school and transport. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal that the County Plan be strengthened and given a generally binding effect. At the same time, however, it is important that municipalities remain the primary authority for land management and local community development. Municipalities shall continue to have primary responsibility for determining the use of the land within their own municipal boundaries. This will require close cooperation between counties and municipalities. The Christian People's Party mainly supports the Government's proposal that county councils assume responsibility for environmental and agricultural tasks at regional level. It is important that environmental and agricultural tasks continue to be carried out within a clear national framework. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to demand that the county receives the right of initiative and the right of objection in land matters. We believe that it will be very limited to the extent to which departments can, on an independent basis, follow up planning activities and the management of laws regionally and locally. It will also be limited how central government can follow up soil protection and industrial policies. Therefore, in order for the right of objection and initiative to operate in practice, the Christian People's Party believes that this responsibility must be included in the supervisory and control function of the county. The Christian People's Party is concerned that 110 municipalities have no environmental responsibility, and that 58 pst. by the municipalities have removed the environmental advisory posts. In order for the reform to succeed, there must be sufficient environmental competence and economy in the counties and municipalities to be able to carry out the new tasks. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that minimum requirements must be laid down for municipalities and county councils to have the necessary agricultural and environmental competence. The Christian People's Party believes that the shared responsibility that we have today in the field of transport hinders the development of a regional comprehensive transport policy. We believe that national decision-making levels need to be limited to being responsible for the tribal roads, while responsibility for the investment and maintenance of national roads is transferred to the county municipalities. The Christian People's Party is opposed to reducing the number of road offices. The Road Office of the day should be integrated into the county's state of affairs, so that we in the county community have a common culture and vegetation. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that has been distributed today that the organisation of the State Road Administration should be presented to the Stortinget as its own case. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that it is important to strengthen the role of county councils as development actors, among others. to strengthen the total value creation. But the Christian People's Party believes that the government's new model for the regional governments of the SND does not strengthen cooperation with the county municipalities. The economic policy must be anchored in the best possible way at the regionally elected level. The Christian People's Party is therefore in favour of the county having the right to appoint the members of the regional governments with political ties. The county council is responsible for organising adult and secondary education. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a clear link between relevant education and work opportunities. It is therefore important to see Aetat’s instruments in the context of means of empowerment in county municipalities. Labour market policy must not lead to the depletion of important resources from regions and districts in great need. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that a regional policy strategy should be developed for the Labour Market Act. According to the recent survey of 19 000 Nordics, the number of jobseekers is the lowest. 65 pst. is dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. It has to be taken seriously. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is important to have a strongly elected level of government at regional level. In order to achieve this, the county must be entrusted with more tasks than there is a majority here today. At the same time, it must be ensured that the economy is able to carry out its tasks in a qualitatively sound manner. The Christian People's Party believes that the county councils have been struggling for many enough years with an economy that has been far too scarce. The new county municipality must also be given the financial opportunity to fulfil its new role as a developer of the region in a creative and qualitative manner. I would like to ask that the proposals No. 1 and 2 shall be converted into a transmission proposal in favour of proposal No. 20, which is distributed. I also address the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is a proposer or co-rapporteur, and I support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e123	The President took note of what the representative Ivar Østberg said about the proposals No. 1 and 2. Ivar Østberg has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e128	I have been to the summer end of the kindergarten during the break. There was a little boy who got a balloon that it was not put knotted at the bottom. It flowed into the air, of course. The air went out, and the balloon fell down completely empty – an excellent picture of how this setting and the proposition really are in relation to the debate and expectations that were about what to do in the task allocation. There's not much left. This is an example of a reform in which one could have been renewed, one could have been simplified, one could have had a massive decentralisation of decisions, but the compromise at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party to maintain a directly elected regional level, even if hospitals were to be moved to the state, has made all three things impossible. On the other hand, we are left with something that becomes a bad level, a level that is going to have problems recruiting politicians, besides those who have no ambitions other than to have a platform for later coming to the Storting, or those who are going to create more conflicts and bigger problems. The Proposition of the Government is full of diffuse leadership without clear decision-making and decision-making authorities. Tasks are assigned, but not instruments, to the county. And it's not going to be better by the setting that's written, when it comes to the question of who's going to have the right to object. If you read through the settings, you'll eventually get the feeling that everyone will have the right to object to the poor municipalities' own spatial plans: county councils and county councillors, and my truth won't be right to look at it right away. This is simply a declaration of failure for the Government's reform of renewal. It shows that it is too difficult for the Workers' Party to have these things carried out. And it's not just a question of the people who are going to work on these issues, but also a question of all that they're going to seize of other people's resources in the municipalities and in the business world in all the work they're going to try to do within the so-called regional development role, in areas that we really don't have to do, and that at least the county level isn't functional enough. When the county municipality was established, it was not supposed to be an over-municipality. We didn't have a hierarchical structure. The county council was established because we had some cross-border problems that were to be solved. We needed, among other things: a functional way of making the health care system work and running the secondary schools. So after that, we've decided that the funding systems, for example. the system of effort-driven funding, perhaps is a better way of steering in relation to how the health sector should be, because we have seen that a regional level does not function in relation to this. In 1996, therefore, the right considered it to be a mature step towards the closure of the county. We saw that funding reforms could be a means of solving these coordination problems in other ways. And we saw that the border problems associated with some public services, not least in the health sector, created completely unreasonable barriers for people, for example. should be given a health offer. In that area, the Workers' Party has moved towards the Right and the Advance Party has intended. But the compromise that was put in place at the National Labour Party meeting means that we are left with something I would call a more or less impotent regional level, which is going to have major problems in finding out what role it is going to have, except to run high school. Instead of looking at simplification opportunities, for example. in relation to county planning, the Task Distribution Committee’s investigation into the functioning of county planning is on the side-by-side. We have chosen to quote some of this in the setting, in the comments of the Right and Advance Party. Among other things, a summary, not written by the Right Party and the Advance Party, but by the researchers who have worked on this: ‘The County Plan also appears to be a small measure of regional coordinating governance in relation to regional and local authorities. The County Plans do not address the major regional conflicts in the counties.» Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. ‘No-one else seems to attach significant importance to the county plans’ — other than the politicians and case handlers who had participated in the process. No one has gone under because they have not had proper state plans. Then the question is if we are going to have a public sector renewal perspective: isn't it time to remove some of the things that nobody really misses but that annoys those who participate in the process? During my time in the municipal committee, I have met many local politicians and many state politicians. I have also sometimes met some business people around, people who, at the end of the 1980s, enthusiastically participated in the design of strategic nutrition plans in the county municipalities, and who today say, "You have to remove it." It's just nonsense. We can't use resources on this. We'd rather operate with something that's food-efficient, which can work instead of participating in this kind of process. The truth is, we can make Norway easier by planning less. We have an excessive belief that we should plan all parts of our sector at all levels and then coordinate them with a new plan. We could manage to make general plans and spatial plans, and let the municipalities get decision-making rights to a much greater extent. Of course, there are cross-border problems between municipalities that need to be resolved in cooperation between them. But most of the cross-border problems I see between municipalities, which municipalities report to me, are not solved by moving them up to county level. They are solved in inter-municipal cooperation between those they affect, and it is well possible that in the future there will be so many tasks that they see it as useful to merge. But there'll be the same number of cross-border problems between two states. In my home country, we have daily problems at the Haugaland border between Sunnhordland and the Haugesunds area. In the case we dealt with earlier today, it is among other things. a municipality that has applied for movement above the county border. These problems are not solved there, but they create new problems. I actually think they'll get right, those who are now criticizing this as a slow, painful death for the county. In that case, we could be happy in many ways, but we don't think it's necessary to spend so much resources on this. We could do this a little bit better by simply deciding to wind up the county municipality here and now. The right is therefore promoting proposals to that effect. The right also promotes a number of other proposals relating to trials where municipalities can take over tasks that are currently in the county, because many municipalities want to take over authority. They see conflicts in areas in which they work, and they believe that their municipality, or they in cooperation with other municipalities, could have solved them. I'm a little surprised by the fear you have in a renewal perspective of adding up to a slightly wider form of experimentation, where some municipalities could be allowed to take over the role of regional development manager, or to take over responsibility for public transport or secondary schools, or actually the attempt we're proposing: if a majority of the population in a county and a majority of the municipalities were to decide that they could cope without a county municipality, could we let them try it for a decade, and then see if the world would have gone down? In any case, eleven rapporteurs in Westfold have written letters to the Committee saying that they could wish for such an attempt. Today, in many ways, the air has gone out of the balloon, and there has been a balloon-without-air debate. We think it's sad, because we think it would have been an important reform to review. In addition, the proposals put forward here help to create greater problems for municipalities. We had the opportunity for a decentralisation reform, a reform that had given more power to the municipalities, given them more authority and led to simplification. Instead, a number of new conflict areas are added. And even though the majority say that the county does not become an over-municipality, the county gets the right of objection and the possibility to enter and treat areas that are currently within the spatial planning of the municipalities. So they're going to make their recordings, and maybe they're going to have to do it at the county. It is a little unclear how to finally reach agreement, and the primary municipality may also appeal to the department. This is a process that may delay the entire spatial planning process and that will create conflicts between municipal politicians and state politicians. In fact, state policies are going to be the bureaucrats that all local politicians are going to suffer in the coming years when land and development plans are delayed and problems arise. And I really don't know who wants to sit in that role when they kind of don't have so many other bigger meaningful tasks to do with. First of all, we think this should be an opportunity to simplify Norway. It hasn't been. Nor has it been an opportunity to decentralise decisions to the municipalities, which could strengthen the municipalities and give them greater responsibility. Then there will be a question of how long you can live with a regional level that will carry out new tasks, but there are tasks that are largely going to give you an over-commune. For us, it's problematic. For us, there is also a problem with all the proposals that other parties have to make to the county council, because we don't think these are guided by the fact that the tasks are to be solved for the benefit of the users, for example in relation to Aetat. As long as I have been on the municipal committee, the problem has been coordination between the municipalities and Aetat – not the county level. I'm sorry, but I really think this is a little sad day. For what could have been an exciting innovation and new administration has simply become a balloon without air. I will be allowed to address the proposals to which the Right is promoting and which are co-sponsored. I will also be allowed to make a proposal. There is a spelling error in proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox It says that ‘The Government asks the Government to develop proposals...’ We're able to make suggestions ourselves, but we really want them to develop trials. The word then becomes "The Government Asks to Develop Trials...".
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e184	The President has noticed that correction. Furthermore, the representative of Solberg has addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e189	We in the Progress Party believe that the intentions of the message are good, and not least the intentions that might have been before this message was received. Then we had certain hopes. But it is clear that the intentions now lie in the fact that we have been able to get responsibility for the specialist services transferred to the state. There would be less detailed management of the municipal sector, and the primary municipalities would be strengthened by more tasks. We were expecting a renewal of the public sector, and now one has put in that we're going to get a renewal of the county council. When it comes to the last thing, I have to say that I don't think of the proposal that is here, as a renewal, rather as a step or two back. A part of us who have fought for the county to be laid down had a hope that the National Assembly of the Labour Party would decide whether this would happen. It's tempting to quote a saying that starts like this: up like a... – and then I'm not going to say anything more, in the fear that maybe it's being accused of not being entirely parliamentary what goes on. I noticed that the representative Brørby, the leader of the committee, that something might happen after 1 October. One imagined that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advancement Party would have multiple numbers, and that perhaps it would go against the closure of the County Commune. I seemed to notice a small, optimistic move in the vocal path when the representative Brørby mentioned this – perhaps a hope that these three parties would do what the representative Brørby would prefer to do, at least if one went under the shirt collar. The Stortinget has now decided that the State should assume financial responsibility for the specialist services. That means that about 60 pst. of the functions of the county have been taken from the county. The other major sector with which the county operates today is the continuing school. I believe that the continuing school had been much better off that one did the same thing there as one has now done with the specialist services, simply transferring the financial responsibility to the state. Then they could be turned into syllables. The municipalities that wanted to run them could take over. In this way, the tasks of the county councils would be a mere fairy tale. Then they would be left with a few tasks before transportation, and I don't think of it as the big problem if we took those tasks from the county council. For those who have a seat in the county, you know that there is something that has our bottleneck in the transport sector in this country, it's the county roads, that's what the county councils are responsible for. I expect that the vast majority of people in this room have shared views around the county, where we have seen a trailer, put on the legal instrument with timber, which goes on a municipal road and forest road. And then we've seen what the same trailer looks like with cargo when it runs over on a country road. Then you might have to use two or three trailers to carry it as a freighter on a trailer on a municipal road, before you can legally cross it on a national road. We all know that the county roads have been a balancing post on most county budgets for the past 25 years. If one takes the grips that should be taken, then we can, with a good conscience and with a good result, put down the county council as an administrative body. There will be no problem in resolving those tasks in a cooperation between government agencies and local authorities. Of course, that will require some, that's clear, but there's no problem. And it must be a paradox that in Norway, with 4.5 million people, we must have three political governing bodies to govern us from the scales to the grave. That way, we'll also be able to streamline and rationalize to get the most out of each of the heads that we put into this. That is why I am very pleased that the Right finally came to its senses and assembly in 1996, as the representative of Erna Solberg said, and I support the proposal from the Progress Party that the county council should be brought down. We may be a little bit confused about the exact division of work, but it's a challenge that it's very easy to do something about. What I also lack in the government's policy after the national meeting is to streamline the primary municipalities, to get a competitive outsourcing in a completely different way from what is today. St. pp. No 82, the so-called municipal proposition, was chemically free from the word competitive outsourcing, although all attempts show that this is effective and have produced good results. It is also clear that intermunicipal cooperation could help us make good use of the resources that public opinion sees into public administration. In that way, we might also be able to eventually get some municipal conjugations, which I think are necessary. I don't want to go to coercion, but I want you to be able to do this through intermunicipal cooperation through a lot of grips. According to what the Prime Minister says, today we use approx. Three billion dollars to administer the 19 counties in Norway. By shutting down the county council, these funds would be released at NOK 3 billion, and they could be transferred to the primary municipal sector, which in turn would receive the strength to which they were going. And this is, according to the Prime Minister's information, only administrative expenses. When it comes to the county, I think we're going to get a lot of trouble when some of these tasks are going from the county to the county, especially in agriculture and the environment. We in the Progress Party have the confidence in the primary municipality that we believe they can solve these matters themselves. The county council may be an appeal body if there are any cross-border problems between two or three municipalities. When we're in a phase like the one we're in now, I also thought that there was a little bit of passivity. Maybe you don't want a further renewal of the public sector when you're not willing to continue trying. By having an experiment, we can learn, we can gain experience that can be useful when we get there one day, and I think we do, I'm overestimated that the leader of the committee will fulfill his deepest desire to remove the county municipality. But in order not to go into all the possible traps that we can easily go into, a housed experience can be tested. Then it is incomprehensible to me that the other parties will not actually be involved in making a further effort in the local government sector, nor will they be allowed to do so. Vestfold is allowed to do without a county municipality when so many will. But I think when this is also the case, that we want to get there, and that one from the Progress Party, if not the representative Solholm, will at least stand here and say: Welcome after, now we have finally made a sensible decision – we have removed the County Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e221	Through the setting of the Task Distribution Committee, the Labour Party had really had the opportunity to facilitate a fundamental discussion of the allocation of tasks between state, state and municipality based on political objectives. The centre party believes that Wilhelmsen's selection provided a good basis for it. Unfortunately, that would not be the Labour Party. They had the opportunity to strengthen the popular regional level – a discussion of how to break down centralized Norway, move tasks out of Oslogryta, strengthen local democracy, reindeer worship tasks to municipal level, sort municipal tasks and move out state power. The first feature of the Workers' Party was the centralisation of the specialist services – the removal of such a central regional task from dialogue with the user groups, from the regionally elected level. Then came the SND message, just enough with a strengthening of the county council as the main player in business development, but with clear feedback, e.g. the centralisation of the Governing Board. So to St. Report. No 34 with a deepening of regional development programmes, four-year plans, additional new possibilities for strengthening the county level. If we go back and look at what the Task Distribution Committee recommended, there were actually 11 out of 12 members who wanted to recommend a regionally elected level. 10 out of 11 members recommended a regional breakdown of 10 to 15 units, 8 out of 11 recommended direct elections to the region. Only 5 out of 12 members recommended a government responsibility for the specialist services. So it was this last thing that was so important for the Labour Party to get through as fast as possible, with record-card listening processes and with great wonder in many counties among many added. The central party, together with the Christian People's Party and SV, has tried to challenge the Workers' Party to take into account what the selection suggests: to strengthen the regional level, to strengthen the county municipality. We wanted to join the Workers' Party – it was probably a good idea to have such hopes and goals – but we wanted to challenge the Workers' Party to strengthen the county council beyond what the Government itself suggested, and to do so now. Initially, we set up a different division of tasks than today between the county and the county councils. We follow the Government and the Task Distribution Selection in that the main environmental and agricultural tasks are transferred to political judgement, that is, to the county council, and that the county council is left with supervisory and control tasks. We also follow the cleaning-up that the government has done in the regional state, that is, the submission of the county and education director to the county that has been proposed. But our starting point is the ability of users – the inhabitants – and their ability to participate in and influence political processes. Here we thought that the task distribution selection had provided a basis for moving on. 11 out of 12 members of the Task Distribution Committee propose that public responsibility for regional land and sea-based transport be added to the regionally elected level. It's a good and sustainable argument for that. One suggests, therefore, that the national decision-making level be limited to being responsible for prioritisation of national roads and tribal roads, while responsibility for investment, operations, etc. highways, ferries and maintenance of the other national roads - transferred to the state. We believe, as the Christian People's Party and SV, that there is also a need to move closer into the context between the responsibilities of the county council today for organized training, the county council's tasks in connection with adult education and the tasks of Aetat today. We would have liked to see the Labour Party already now clarify that all training and communication should be added to the county councils. We also believe that Aetat as a regional political actor must be further elaborated. The depository institution in the context of the planning process has been the subject of special attention. Who is it that should be able to countersign against a municipal plan? The Government proposes that the depository institution be added to the county. The centre party supports this. The government announces that it will review the current state-of-the-art legislation on planning and building law and assess whether the land component will be legally binding. The centre party supports such a review and will take a final position on this when that assessment is made. So there are strong plural comments for fewer states. There are different views in the Center Party. There are some who have hopes of fewer units, and some who, based on the experience you have today, think that today's division is good. We underline in the setting that we can be open to both border adjustments and other assessments, but any changes in relation to today's borders should have a population of each of the states involved, and the initiative must come from below. Let me go back a little bit to other tasks, like the distribution between Aetat and today's county council. We ask in a proposal that the county council be given the coordination responsibility for the reform of competences. We'd like to see the government go further, and they did it now. At the same time, the Government has warned that there are different assessments to be made. And in relation to the speed with which the government took over the specialist services, I have to say that it is good that the dental services, the child protection, the drugs field and the family protection were subject to some more thorough assessments. I think that just meant that the takeover of the specialist services went very quickly. We've already discussed the economy before today. There is no good starting point for the new county that one here stands with deficits that have been worked out as a result of health services, and that is to start by reducing its new tasks in order to create a balance of operations. Finally, I would like to comment on some of the proposals that have been put forward. The Central Party and SV are therefore united in asking the Government to facilitate the county council to have coordination responsibility for the reform of competences and also for the transfer of tasks in relation to Aetat. I take up the proposals. In addition, I would like to notify support from the Central Party for proposals 12 and 13. We are in order to set requirements for competence in the environment and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e249	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e252	The starting point for finding a new division of tasks was to want both better services and more democracy. That's a desired SV share. Because both of them are needed. In addition, a number of new policies are needed. And in that case, who could have developed a new policy? SV believes that this should have happened at regional level, which is large enough to have a wide range of tasks and a wide range of diversity and inequalities — districts, urban areas, large-scale centres, edge centres — and at the same time little enough to see how the policy works in practice, so that you can understand how it works and adjust the course. We don't think that state policy can in any way take on such a development role in a successful way. But it could have been something new and powerful. It wasn't. While the Government argues correctly on the principles of division of tasks, it does not follow up on sufficiently concrete proposals for decentralisation of powers to a regional level in development work, so that the new county municipality can play a role or contribute something particularly new. It could have been a change that had given people most of the greater influence and power over the development of their own region and neighbourhood, which could have shown the way to completely necessary new approaches to national policy, breathing the Storting a little bit more in the neck with practical suggestions on how things should be done. That would have been good. SV had hope of this, but it now went as it did in 1976 when the county municipality was established. It's just as half-hearted and unsolved today. Until now, the county has lacked both economic backbone and political power, and so it will be in the future. The fact that this hangs in the loose air, as the rapporteur said, is primarily because you now have a level that should again lack both power and means, and sit with tasks and not know their poor advice on how to solve them. It is also because heavy areas such as hospitals, transport, labour markets, etc. have been drawn out and the sectors have been allowed to decide first. Then we have to collect what was left when the sectors had taken their own. It was exactly the opposite of that at least SV had thought of this. The division of tasks was supposed to be the cross-sectoral one, see what solutions would work for people in practice, and put someone into such a coordinating role, someone who had political authority to do a job for people. It's not like that now. Now it's designed a paper tiger, raked for tasks of great practical importance to people and the seal for money after hospitalization. I have to admit that today I feel that this is one of the most wasted things I have been on, and I have been on for many years also in the county municipality. For most people, what matters is that politicians can deliver some solutions to their needs, and that they can deliver a belief that what you're doing brings society in the right direction, for example. that they receive a good, modern secondary school, which can give young people a good offer, that they have a collective offer that is tailored to their needs. There it is that there must be other solutions in Finnmark than in Oslo, or in Hedmark, my county, or in Hordaland. There have to be different solutions, but how do you get it, when it's still going to be as divided as it is? SV has a proposal to give the new county municipalities authority over both national roads, county roads, public transport and the purchase of services on NSB's personalised services. This would allow them to adapt their supply to local and regional needs. They could be allowed to choose sails, and people could have been allowed to choose politicians who had chosen the solution they wanted. I've taken some examples. I'll take them back, because I think they're right. If the Finnish county council had got the money to FATIMA, I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have been a tunnel. I think there would have been a lot better highways, highways and a lot of money for racial protection. At least it had become a discussion in Finnmark about what it was right to use the money for. Likewise, I think it's now in More and Romesdal. If More and Romsdal had got the money for the Eiksund connection and had the opportunity to see it in connection with other things, I also believe that the pressure to get racial protection and protection on some other roads had become great, and they had the opportunity to choose a sail. I think people in More and Romesdal would be allowed to do that. SV has wanted a solution where we had taken more account of the needs of people than of the sector interests, as has been the case with the solution we have received today. SV has been busy moving more tasks than on transportation. We've wanted an investigation to look at what we're doing with the development of competence in the future. After all, the county has a great responsibility for it, and they must continue to be responsible for higher education. They also provide training for adults and young people, and have a high level of competence in this area. They are also responsible for adult education. For SV, it is quite natural to see this in the context of both the reform of continuing education and training and of the need for empowerment and action that Aetat has. We also see the need for Aetat to have different policies in different parts of the country, because people are the most important resource you have. If we're going to have a labour market policy that exports people out of a district, and then a district policy that brings people back to the same district, we don't think it's any particular trick. We think we should be allowed to make a little different solutions in different areas, because they have different needs. We've had an example in the last year of the government and the Workers' Party, where they've seen that there's been special needs in the yard industry, and there's been some action to maintain competence over time. It is said to be doing it this way, for it was a very large, heavy case that came, so that it became a national policy case. But in many counties and areas of the country there may be a little less change happening. It may be that it is right to allow resources to be pooled between higher education and Aetat, and to offer some skills that could lead to the start of activity and activity, and perhaps to schooled people for the jobs available in that area. It's not like that today. SV has also had a wish to go a little further in terms of SND than the majority have been willing to do. SND has just been addressed in its own big message, and it is about some of the main regional policy instruments we have. It will be very difficult to believe in those who now say that they intend to put the new county council in the regional political driving seat, when the main instruments remain in the state area, and they are not given authority over them. Then they're going to follow the county plans, which are now going to have some kind of enhanced effect, but it's not clear. Yes, it is possible that it will be good, but I think there will be too much plans and too little direct authority. I think it's going to be like this. I believe that these four-year plans from the county are visionary and good, and they can draw up a development and a desired path to go which is important and correct. But I think that if we are to have a hand on the steering wheel when it comes to economic development and the regional development funds that are there, we must have a much shorter and more operational starting point than that. So to what has been said about over-municipalities. SV is not of those who are afraid of this so-called overcommunist ghost. We have seen that it may be right in some cases to give the county councils such an opportunity. In addition to this, SV today promotes proposals on the need for a review of the law on nature protection and the environment. We believe that it is natural and important to decentralise tasks as important as they are now made to a popular level, to go through those areas and to ensure that national leadership is strong enough in areas that need better protection than today. I'm addressing the suggestions that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e279	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e282	I want to start with a quote from the setting, page 11, where the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV say the following: ‘The main question is not whether we should have a level of regional administration, but who should take decisions and initiatives at this level: it should be government, elected politicians or inter-municipal cooperation arrangements.’ In the view of the Left, this is at the heart of two or three levels of government. What we can call the regional issues and needs, does not disappear if one of them denies the county municipality. The question is, where are they moved? No country has managed to clean up a system with only two levels of administration. The left has also discussed the future of the county council, openly and without prejudice. At the recent national meeting, an overwhelming majority ended up saying no to this. Had it been as simple as the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted it to, we would have said yes, but the setting shows in my opinion that this is not the case. The answer of the Progress Party is a gigantic centralization of power at the hands of the state. The right is trying to go the other way, putting things down at the municipal level, but lacks answers to important questions about how this can happen in practice, with the many and different municipalities we have. The result can very quickly be a new, but more immeasurable, third level of government, for example. in the form of a less democratic, less open and more arbitrary level of inter-municipal cooperation. It is gratifying that the old slogan of the Left “Humans in the Centre” has now been fully implemented. Those who believe this is a matter of course know the political and ideological history poorly. The Committee says as its starting point that ‘the population must be put in the centre’, and that is the Social Liberal Left more than anyone agrees with. That is why we support reforms that can strengthen democracy, proximity to decisions, simplification and the more efficient use of public funds. It is positive that the Workers' Party so clearly says they will increase the freedom of municipalities and reduce designation and state detail management. This is a big line shift, but like our city committee center cameras, we are skeptical of the real will and ability to take this step in practical politics. But we have to remember this and remind ourselves of it when the control lever gives itself a new look. Once again, it is the Progress Party that appears to be the most extreme. Almost all county tasks have to be transferred to the state. Regional planning, industrial policy and cultural support shall be phased out more or less. When we also know that all that the party believes the municipalities are going to do, namely health, care for the elderly and school, to be offered through government earmarked appropriations and carried out by private providers, one has to wonder what is left of local democracy. When the party at some point in the setting says that ‘municipal self-government must be strengthened’, it is not a believer – in all its grisly contrast to everything else as shown by this setting. The party of progress surpasses everything we have seen throughout the post-war period of social democratic centralization of power. It doesn't say a little bit. When the party also says that discretionary judgements can only be taken by the overall political body, the Storting must, of course, be involved in local policy conflicts in a hitherto unknown manner. I have to wonder whether the Progress Party has any ideas about the consequences of its own proposals. The left joins the note on page 10 of the Centre Parties and the SV on a comprehensive review and management of principles and policy objectives for the division and division of tasks, before deciding on geographic structures and sub-questions. Unfortunately, each state budget is now operating on its own, so that we experience bureaucratic top management, sector management and centralisation, instead of a process that puts the user at the centre. This applies, for example, to the reorganisation of road offices. It must not be seen in isolation but assessed on the basis of the overall role of the road system and its transport in the future county. Therefore, it is important that this comes to Stortinget as a matter of its own, not just as part of the state budget. That is why proposal No. 20 on this, on behalf of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Centers and the SV. I also hope for the Workers' Party's agreement to this. We join the minority comments on putting the new state in the driver's seat for a new gift in regional and local social development. There are elements in the matter that point in the right direction. Left will – despite justified scepticism – take the Workers' Party seriously when it gives its support to user orientation, less detailing and ringing. The left supports the transfer of responsibility for the environment and agriculture to the county and the elected level. We are committed to ensuring national objectives and decisions in the field of nature management, and in this context, proposal No. 21 on behalf of the Left. It's done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e315	Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e318	It must be sad to be a state politician from the Right and the Advance Party. I have not heard the husband little trust in those who work at this political level. I have to say that I have a completely different view of what it is possible to create from regional and municipal activities through democratic elections, with a proper division of tasks between the different levels of government. But I must say after listening to the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, that I think they look dark on life. We see, on the contrary, very bright in the future. So we have, through the municipal proposition, which has been dealt with earlier today, and through the task-sharing communication, which is now being discussed this afternoon, actually facilitated the main political reforms since – let's say – 1976 in this field, where significant power is transferred to local and regional political levels, where, in concrete proposals, we warn that we will go considerably further in removing regulatory governance, removing requirements for overall plans and ensuring that municipalities are able to organise themselves in such a way that they meet the user at the lowest possible level and provide the best possible services. And then it actually sounds like there's nothing happening, and it's just because the Right Party and the Advance Party can't carry out their king's idea. In fact, I think it would have been desirable at least to get to grips with the things we agreed on, and then try to develop this in such a way that we actually regained confidence in the regional and local level, instead of expressing distrust of these politicians from the Great Britain's pulpit. It is clear that renewal of the public sector, renewal of the municipal level and renewal of the regional level will not take place overnight. At least it does not just happen by decisions of government and magnification. This is done by facilitating the step-by-step development of these sectors to take on new, challenging tasks, and by developing a public sector capable of providing flexible and adapted solutions to people in this country who are becoming more and more competent but who, at the same time, on different levels, will need flexibility in the welfare systems to be offered. This means that municipalities, counties and states need to operate more fully within a framework and to a lesser extent through central detail management. I therefore strongly believe that the external framework now put in place by the Storting should enable politicians at all levels to create a renewed public sector that will benefit users. This also applies to the actions we take to seek to make the State more visible in relation to its main task, namely to ensure that state-level service provision improves, by bringing the county board and the State Education Office to the county councils – and the county offices are becoming increasingly important in their work of coordinating the state's activities at regional level – while at the same time being in the border country and clearly industrial development, and to those who are to be the regional development actors, such as the environment sector and the agricultural sector, go to the regional policy level. This I think will be good. But on the other hand, we are also equally amazed at the SV, which has such enormous confidence in state policy-makers in matters of transport, in distributing competition and tenders, and one with the other, but which must have national governance in detail on environmental issues. In fact, if municipalities and municipalities have our confidence in caring for the elderly and important spatial planning, they should also have our confidence in taking responsibility for the development of our common environment, based on national laws. I am pleased that the main features of the Government's task-sharing message go through in Stortinget. I think this will be a good basis for the future joint development of a new and better public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e337	For me, the remarks on page 14 of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are the most politically powerful marking in the position we are dealing with today. The majority want a strong, clear and efficient public sector as a prerequisite for avoiding large-scale private solutions. Of course, this is a flag that primarily has the message that the public sector needs to become sufficiently capable, and the challenges are that the public sector becomes good in relation to the people's expectations and needs. It is about the ability of municipalities to solve their tasks. It is important here that municipalities are given greater financial autonomy and that they are not tied up in over-regulation by the state. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that the worker party government in the municipal proposition agrees to cut and simplify reporting requirements towards municipalities. And not least, it is important to liquidate or include ear-marked grants, as the Workers' Party proposed last year. The majority, with the Labour Party and the Right, join the Government's efforts to change the government's governance of the local government sector. This implies that governance needs to take place in a different way, through target and result management and through dialogue and guidance. The saying that the person who wears the shoe knows best where it presses fits perfectly in that connection. For the Workers' Party, it is important here to point to the guidance responsibilities of the county councillors. It is a fact that very many municipalities benefit greatly from the knowledge of which the county officials possess in terms of guidance. In the view of the Labour Party, this is an important point if we want the municipalities to succeed in their tasks. With regard to the transfer of the environment and agriculture from the county to the county municipality, I point out that it is unthinkable to deal with both agricultural policy and environmental policy without having a firm hand on the national leadership. It is therefore important to stress that there is no redundancies in relation to national objectives, neither agricultural policy nor environmental policy, one of which is set. However, it is important to stress that here we must take the Local Agenda seriously, and it is about giving the municipalities real opportunity to influence their own future. In other words, we have to dry up to release the municipality. Around the country today there are major changes in public enterprises. Many are concerned that this can lead to strong centralisation, including: within each State. I do not believe that there is any over-management by the state for the different sectors, but I believe that the kind of coordination that involves having an overview and conducting dialogue and working together should be pursued in order to find good solutions that serve the public. This should serve all parties, and I believe that the new county office should have as one of its most important tasks the coordination of state activity in the county, in order to enhance the overall perspective. We're not there today, but that must be the goal. For me, it is not only about cleanliness in the division of tasks, but also about district policy. The strong presence of state agencies in each state provides the population with closeness to services and not least a core of knowledge. We now have three directly elected levels of government, which provide a well-functioning democracy. However, one should be alert to the tendency of one in small regions to form separate organisations with their own bureaucracy. Here, the evaluation of the Regional Councils will provide us with more tangible knowledge. We must never let go of the main idea that it is not bureaucracy, but good public services for the people across the country who are the main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e358	I don't think this is a sad day. On the contrary, as the Kosmo Council said, it is a very happy day. There's a huge reform that's going to be adopted here in Stortinget later this evening, where we're actually taking a cap to delegate power and authority to local and regional levels, which I think is absolutely right to do. For the Government, one of the main objectives of this major reform is to make more effective use of the resources at our disposal, greater ease of use and strengthening the local government. A guiding principle for this work is simplification by clarifying the roles of municipalities, county councils and the state. It will also help to improve efficiency by avoiding as much double administration as we see today as we see today. This will lead to a clearer and more appropriate division of roles between the different levels of government. A key element of this reform is the decentralisation of tasks and powers to the primary municipalities. By giving the municipalities more tasks, we help to strengthen the local authorities' position in the administration. By doing this, we at the same time shift responsibility for decision-making and problem-solving as closely as possible to those involved. It is the local authorities that have the best knowledge of local needs and thus have the best assumptions for using resources efficiently. In the main message, the Government proposes to decentralise tasks to municipalities primarily in the field of environmental protection and agriculture. The respective departments are working on processes to clarify more precisely which tasks are being transferred. In addition, other departments will consider tasks in their areas that can also be solved in the municipalities. While giving the municipalities more tasks, we also need to give them more space for action. Strong government governance has weakened the ability to find good local solutions adapted to the needs of each community, so we need to continue to reduce state detail management in many areas, as the Government has called for, and as a majority of the population in the United Kingdom has joined. We also present preliminary results from a broad review of the legislation aimed at the municipal sector. It proposes a significant clean-up of the requirements of municipal action plans, of different types of competence requirements and of manning standards. As you know, we have also proposed significant reductions in the workload associated with reporting from the local government sector to the state, to mention something. Another key point is that we are making it possible for the county to appear to be the main regional development actor. Today, the county council is responsible for the broad social development of the county, but it does not have sufficient means to discharge this responsibility. In our view, if this development role is to become a reality, it will assume that the county council will have greater authority over the decisions that directly affect regional development. The Government therefore proposes to strengthen the regional development responsibilities of the county council by giving the county plan a general commitment effect, making decisions on objections to the county council, strengthening the county council's responsibility for regional transport, and assuming responsibility for environmental protection tasks and agricultural tasks at regional level, with the exception of review procedures and law enforcement. I believe that this will provide the basis for good regional solutions. As you know, the government has not proposed any changes to the state breakdown. It is consistent with the principles of municipal autonomy and that local freedom of action should underpin the government governance of the municipal sector. A reduction in the number of counties should be achieved through voluntary processes, but we stimulate through economics and through technical assistance. The proposal to integrate the county board and the State Education Office into the county office will also provide a clearer organisation of the regional central government, help to improve coordination of government governance of the local government sector and also provide savings opportunities through a common administration. Through this reform, we want, as I said, to decentralise much more to the municipalities and also to the county municipalities. But I would also like to stress that in order for the county councils to be able to fulfil the democratic role they are intended to play, it is essential that they have general confidence in the people. It depends not only on the framework conditions within which the county operates, therefore it will also depend to a large extent on its own efforts to raise awareness of the regional policy issues facing its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e379	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e382	Today, the SV majority ensures what I would call a more environmentally hostile policy. It belongs to the units of the rares, and that's why it disappoints me all the more. SV had the chance to ensure both more popular governance and responsibility for environmental policy regionally and to ensure that the environment does not become a loser in such a reform. Maintaining the right of objection in the county would contribute to this. It is a kind of insurance scheme for the environment, an additional control that ensures that we do not have 19 different environmental policies in this country, and that other interests do not systematically override environmental interests. There's a real danger that this can happen. Whoever lives gets to see, but at least it happened when the scheme that gets a majority today was tried out in Akershus. In the free-dominant experiment, national environmental considerations were almost systematically reduced in conflicts with a municipality. In 80-90 p.m. of the cases, the decisions were taken in favour of the municipalities. Today the situation is about 40-50 pst. i average. I think we all know the situation around the country, know examples of environmentally hostile projects that have been halted thanks to the county and the use of the right of objection so that the department could cut through. No one else has often had ‘goods’ to say no. In most cases, the same low-environmental projects and plans have been supported by municipalities and county councils. So now these are the ones that, according to the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are going to be the great and powerful watchbows of the environment and the protection of the soil. That the Workers' Party proposes something like this is just another confirmation of the low status of environmental concerns in the government party. The Central Party has its local political interests. But the fact that SV ensures the majority for this is not only regrettable, it is very alarming. They even ensure that voluntary organisations and environmental organisations are now less involved in regional and local environmental policies than they are at present. The decision Stortinget today takes, in my opinion, will mean a serious setback for Norwegian environmental policy. Once again, the living will see, but that's my prophecy. Although the right-wing parties have nothing to boast about in this area, it is nevertheless the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV who now have to bear the primary responsibility for such development. But it's SV that provides the majority, and we're going to know that we're going to remind the party of new pathways. Then it's a shame to have to use his last post from this pulpit, as an elected representative of the Storting, to present such a message. However, in my opinion, this will be a final warning about the path of environmental policy in this country. I hope I'm not getting right, I hope I'm so deeply mistaken, but I'm tracking that I'm getting right. When the verdict of history is written, I want this to be written in black in white in Stortinget's record.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e393	In its efforts to renew, streamline, modernise and convert the public sector, the Government, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV of all things have been committed to maintaining the county community. The county must now become a regional development actor by assigning new tasks and being under political control. But the county council has proved for good that it never managed to become what one hoped it would be, and have a certain degree of legitimacy. Thus, when the state is about to take over the county hospitals, more than half of the county municipality's livelihood disappears taskfully. The backbone of the county council is going to be gone. Even nothing as important as the operation and responsibility of our hospitals was able to legitimize and give the county council a central place in our administration system. Of all things, all parties, apart from the Advancement Party and the Right, believe that introducing some cultural bureaucracy, a dose of environmental bureaucracy, a dose of agricultural bureaucracy and some land and transport responsibility, will revitalize and lift the county council and manage it even the hospital operation could not, namely to give the county council a place in people's consciousness and to create interest in it among the voters. As a result, the Progress Party has already proposed to close the county administrative and political areas twice during this enlargement period. The signals that came from several teams in the Workers' Party last year suggested that the Workers' Party too began to see the unnecessaryness of the County Municipality's existence. But then there was an exhilarating internal struggle of power in the Workers' Party, and the reform-friendly forces were overcome by those who wanted everything as it was. When the Brustad government council presented St.meld. No 31 April, it became clear that the government wanted to keep and clean up the county municipality and to provide the county councils with a number of other tasks after the spine, i.e. hospitals, was to be taken over by the state. You can rightly ask yourself how the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party believe that it will strengthen the county community that some state environmental, cultural and agricultural bureaucrats change employers – from county to county. If something is meant to improve the efficiency of public administration, the closure of the county municipality will be the first and most important step in the right direction, but then one. The preservation of a county municipality that is toiled for its most important tasks, but which is to be put back on its feet by carrying out new tasks which are far less important than the hospital operations, will prove to be the administrative failure of the times in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e402	I'm not going to comment on Lodve Solholm's and Erna Solberg's hoaxing over the county council and really all over the public sector's problem solving. But what made me a little surprised was the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's attempt to say, correctly in a pious way, that the Workers' Party will not discuss the principal aspects of the resolution. The whole message is an invitation to discuss the role of the different levels. Then I think it's quick to say something negative about the Workers' Party, so it's kind of said – even though we agree that it's important to get the new County Municipality in place. The county council has – I repeat – increased responsibility for planning, transport, industrial development and culture. And there's actually going to be a job afterwards, too, after the decision today. Further concreteisation will come both for the municipalities and for the county municipalities. Then I am also amazed at Karin Andersen when she says that new policies must be made at regional level. I do not, in fact, believe that it is the view of the majority that the new county councils should have their own agricultural policies, each of them set up their own environmental policies, or each of them set up their own labour market policies. National objectives and guidelines shall apply — and, of course, within those frameworks, the county may establish its own policies. I also think that there is too little confidence in the local level when the detailed management from the SV in particular is as large as it is. Our goal is to reduce the level of detail management, and there is confidence in the municipalities and county councils. I don't even think it's a sad day today, for me it's not sad to strengthen local democracy. So I actually think that we can afford to wish the new county municipality good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e411	As a long-standing state politician, I didn't think there was any sad day – on the contrary. I'm optimistic. For me, it's a question of what expectations we have of the new county municipality: Better services, the services are for the people, not for the level of government, more democracy, a more vital and local regional government, a regional government to which people are given ownership, ownership of the same line as they do today to the municipality of their home. What's going to happen if you don't want to put that in place? A greater real freedom, it must be less ear-marking to, more free revenues, fewer minimum requirements, fewer regulated rights. You may also need to consider local/regional taxation. It implies greater local accountability. A person can be held responsible for the priorities he does in a completely different way. And it's about, as the Kosmo Council of State was about, at the bottom of it, trust in local and regional capabilities to solve local and regional challenges. The question I have asked myself many times, and I have found the answer to myself: Where is the greatest knowledge of local circumstances? Is it local, or is it in the capital? It's in a way where the key is. It's about trust in those who are elected to rule locally, and giving them room for action so that this becomes a real political arena. It is important that we get a clearer distinction between that of the local and regional governments and that of the controlling regional state. There are challenges here. But I think it's done some work now, and the challenges we have to share locally, regionally and at state level to get this done. If the will is not present, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e421	I registered that the representative Karin Andersen said that the presented actually gave us an impotent county municipality that was hanging in the air. There might be a lot of associations, but I'll leave that to me. I share the view of the Kosmo Council of State that it is striking how much negative a person can be able to say in relation to those who work and work and do their best, both at political and administrative level. Of course, one might be in favour of change, and we might have given a mandate that was even more tense. We might also dare to take even bolder steps. At the same time, it's as far as we've come, and then we have to go into it and try to get this as much as we can. I have a specific question to the Kosmo Council of State. In relation to the County Convergence, it says that it's going to happen on a voluntary basis, which I think is quite right. And I think that an advisory body and what has been said about economics here makes sense. But at the same time, I know, and I know it concretely from Agder: where are the different services to be located, and how should a coordination of state and state agencies? Fear that everything will end up in one place, and then like the most populous, and that some will sit back as losers there, will often be able to control a development that is necessary – and there are good processes going on now. When it comes to the state budgets, I have to say that we have seen that each department has rationalized separately, without regard to context, and that has been so far a problem. One now starts to grab hold, but it's probably late. What I'm after is whether the state, at Kosmo State Council, will be an active participant in a process where one can find the right solutions and how one should locate and place them in relation to each other, and perhaps find a balance that makes a region safe for a necessary extension. I think everyone will notice that we get one Agder, but it should happen voluntarily, it must be a good process, and everyone must feel that one will come reasonably properly out of it. Would the Kosmo State Council be involved in such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e432	SV does not want county councils to develop their own agricultural policies or their own environmental policies — not at all. What SV is trying to say is that they can develop policy solutions that can be input to national policy, so that we can find better solutions. It's where the policy meets reality, that the solutions arise. I think they're good at the recordings they come back to us with, where they say they're sorry, but the policy you came up with now, it doesn't work, you have to do something else. That is what I referred to in the debate earlier today. There are workers' party politicians who say, "I'm sorry, but this hospital settlement you've given us now, it doesn't work. We're going to have to drop out of high school. This is not something I'm saying. It's the Labour Party politicians locally who say this. It is not the SV who do not trust them and who do not listen to them. It is the Workers' Party that does not listen to them, and has no respect for what they come up with, and for what they are struggling with. The reason why SV is critical today is that we see that they get a lot of problems, but not an opportunity to solve them. What happens then is that the contempt for this is increasing, and that people are struggling out in a job that is impossible to get into. We think it's pretty sad that it should be like this. So to the question of the environmental department, where Hilde Frafjord Johnson now made it clear that it is SV and the local people elected to be the main opponents of environmental policy. I don't think that's a very wise solution. This is a question on which there are different opinions in all parties. We have reasoned this way: it is important to be clear that this reform does not deprive the state of responsibility or authority in any area. National policy on national environmental considerations shall be pursued nationally, not locally and not regionally. But there's an SV disagree. The reform is about who will manage the local discretion, the room that we here agree that someone should manage locally, where you can be allowed to do things differently. If you think that what they're allowed to do is wrong, you have to bring it in here, and then you have to say that the law needs to be changed. That's what SV means. So the main question is not what kind of national policy we are going to have in these areas, but who is going to take the decision locally. Here SV wants the county council now to have that responsibility. But I would like to remind you that there is a direct opportunity for the departments – both on behalf of themselves, on behalf of other departments, on behalf of the municipalities, and also on behalf of the counties – to call the plans and intervene if they are in conflict with national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e443	In my view, the proposal now being promoted, on a new division of tasks between the different levels of government, involves strangling the county. I have my daily work in the county municipality of Finnmark. We've done nothing but cut down and cut down in the last few years to finance hospitals. We have come so far that the knit can no longer be stretched. People have stood up and said that enough is enough. Now, when we see the hospital reform in connection with the new division of tasks, I have to say that it's almost a mockery. A patch on the wound for the county council is that we're going to be investigators. Every time we open the paper, it says about the workers' party rapporteurs screaming for help because they still have to cut down. It helps to strengthen the disdain of politicians. In fact, I experience that as a real threat to the people's rule. My question is, if you really want three elected levels in this country, I have the hope that you are interested in decentralizing part of the power that lies here, to the regional level. But that's not what happens. I want to say, to me, it seems to me that you're not willing to move power down to people at the regional level. You have to ask yourself, what's the point of maintaining it? Should you not be so honest and say that what the Labour Party government really wants are two elected levels here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e454	First, a brief comment in relation to the case spokesman's understanding of what I said in my post. Our view is that the Task Distribution Selection provided a basis for a fundamental clarification in relation to the allocation of tasks. We actually had expectations that we'd get a more thorough assessment as the basis for fundamental clarifications before one here started extracting sub-elements, as it was now done by the Workers' Party. Now it's said today from Brustad State Council that it's important that one take the decisions as close to them as possible to the debt. So the Workers' Party drew the Specialists' Committee before the debate on the Task Distribution Committee. There was nothing more or less than that. We are well aware that, after the task-sharing selection, it has our internal discomfort in the Labour Party about how long or how short one would go. There were no insinuations here from my side. But we in the Central Party must be allowed to state that we would have liked one to lead the principal clarifications first, and that one also went further in the proposal from the Government. Earlier today, we have had a good round when it comes to economics. Nor is it the Centre Party that has found that the county councils are unfortunately going to be somewhat poorer equipped with funds in relation to the tasks they now have. The Municipal Committee has received separate letters from bodies which are cross-political in this respect. So finally Hilde Frafjord Johnson and her outcome. SV can defend itself, but I would like to say from the Centre Party’s side – we are also in the majority – that we do not assume that there are 19 different environmental policies and 19 different agricultural policies. On the contrary. We're assuming that this is going to be national guidelines, and then there's going to be room for county political judgement. There is also the possibility for municipalities and other authorities to intervene in relation to the plans. The municipalities themselves can get their plans into the department, if that is the case. Let me add at the end: it was a good experience to listen to two councils that have such enthusiasm for the continuation of what we are about to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e467	It was almost so that we just lacked the trombones and the flagships to underline how successful this reform is going to be, when the state councils spoke. We have a new round that almost everyone, at least many, public sectors are going around and asking the users how happy they are. What you don't get is how good the services are, just how satisfied the users are, and it depends on what expectation you have in advance. When I say it's a sad day compared to what we're dealing with now, it's simply because the Workers' Party had created greater expectations for me about what would come out of this assignment and this discussion. It is quite simply so that on the other hand, as the recipient of this document to the Storting, I have had my expectations that I have become a little tired of services provided by the Government, because they have not acted with the exasperating grips expressed by the various Councils and the President of the case in the debate earlier. And I have to say that when the Council of State Brustad now says that there will be less double bureaucracy, she is wrong. There has been no cleaning up in the double bureaucracy in what has been proposed here. There has been a shift between the county and the county council, but once the authority has been extended and the possibility of working on matters in the county council that the municipalities are already involved in, there is an increase in double-bureaucraticness, because there is a greater problem between the primary municipality and the county municipality. And then all of this is going back to mediation at the county council, and then the county council must also be competent in these areas. The County Board shall also be the Board of Appeal, the County Board of Appeal shall become the Board of Appeal in areas where the Board of Appeal is not currently the body of appeal vis-à-vis the county council. I therefore believe that it is wrong to believe that this is a red tape reform. So I want, since we're about to split up, to say something positive about what's here, and it's really not what's mentioned in the chapters that we're dealing with here, but it's about the follow-up to changes in regulation and governance. Yes, we're actually satisfied with that. We think it is good that we have made changes to the government's governance of the municipalities. I would like to remind you that a little over three years ago, the Right proposed a sectoral review of the legislation here in Stortinget. The Labour Party supported it, the Progress Party supported it, while the Centre Government trained it for almost one year before we in the Right promoted a new proposal, because it was clear that a majority in the Stortinget wanted this to happen again. Then came a ‘Simplify Norway’ on the table. It was also documented from the KS that it had been 40 pst. increase in legislation over six years, which thus applied to the government's governance towards the municipalities at that time. Of course, we are pleased that this is a follow-up, and we hope that we also deal with the rather difficult issues, not just the simple issues. Some of the difficult issues concern, for example: The earmarked contribution to the school leisure scheme, to camp schools and such things, which are ‘babies’ for the Workers’ Party, and when one starts to fail there now withdraws it in the municipal proposition, there is a danger that the difficult issues will not be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e484	It's going to be a red tape. But it's a little dependent on how biging, government and directorates behave. If it's still going to be such that every time there's a problem, we're going to intervene with regulation, regulation, or numbering from collapse and government, where we give freedom to municipalities and counties to make decisions, then there's no red tape. But don't blame the public institutions! Then, as central political authorities, we have to blame ourselves. Admit now that by means of interpellations, Document No. Eight proposals and a number of the activities that take place in political life are an intense desire to steer businesses in Norway through individual decisions! There we have to calm down a little bit more if we are to achieve red tape. If we succeed with it, this becomes a real red tape. If we do not succeed in doing so, at least do not blame the civil servants. Then we have to take the blame ourselves. And I say we, because here there are no parties that are anything better than others. This has been part of the way we have governed Norwegian society. Then, with new technologies, it becomes less and less decisive how different businesses are set up to provide administrative services. And it's quite obvious that if the people of the Agder states find out that they're going to merge, at least we're not going to help the state to centralize power and offices within the two states. But I'm going to be willing to hear what the people and local politicians in the two states are saying. What is it that makes the environment and environmental policy become something for activists and state environmental bureaucrats? Well, there is no possibility of local involvement on environmental issues and the implementation of local wishes. As we move a greater degree of environmental policy to the local level, local political and public engagement will once again win environmental policy for the population, rather than leaving it to bureaucracy. It is activating the local policy environment that is essential for us to be able to take responsibility for sustainable development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e493	I just want to keep going where Kosmo's government council failed. Of course, I fully agree with what he said. I just want to point out – since the representative Frafjord Johnson referred to the Akershus trial, as if it had failed – that my clear impression is that it is actually the opposite that has happened. It must also be clear that the environmental policy objectives will, of course, also guide the environmental responsibility of the county councils, so there can be no doubt of any kind. Thus, there have been two-three major evaluations of the three-year experiment with a County Environmental Protection Administration in Akershus, and there is no change in environmental protection practices and national targets. The experiment also eliminated duplication of work, while reinforcing environmental and regional policy awareness and improving the integration of environmental protection into other sectors. This is what the evaluations of the experiment showed. So to SV: Representatives Andersen and Saxi continue here the storm race towards the hospital settlement that will be adopted here later today, and try to present it as if we are now prepared to strip the county municipality, and that there should be, as it were, the winding-up of the county municipality. This is no longer going to be true if SV representatives repeat it several times in several debates today. And when the representative Kirsti Saxi says we're just going to give county councils investigative roles, it's actually wrong. It's actually also wrong when it's claimed by the representative Saxi that we don't decentralize power. That's what's at the root of this whole reform, that we decentralize power and authority to municipalities and counties: concrete tasks in the environment and agriculture to municipalities. It will also come in other areas – concrete things for the county councils – in the field of industrial development, within culture, we will move the environmental and agricultural department from the county to the county council, etc. In addition, through this reform, we provide municipalities with more space for action. And what I have heard over the years I have been active in politics is that rapporteurs and county rapporteurs and other local politicians have said to me: give us more room for action! It is one of the things we do through this reform, by saying less earmarked grants, fewer plans, fewer reporting requirements, fewer skills requirements and manning standards. And if that's not delegating power and authority to local politicians in municipalities and counties, then I don't know what it is to delegate power and authority. What the representative here says, I think is actually wrong. So just a little visit – at the very least – to the Center Party, which also continues the criticism. I have to say that when the Central Party a few months before a election adds NOK 4 billion to the municipalities and NOK 12 billion to debt cancellation, which they were not in the vicinity of getting while they sailed into government, then I actually think that people also think of seas, because the municipal scheme that will be adopted here today is one of the best that has been adopted for many years, and much more than the Center Party sailed into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e504	It was a pleasure to hear the Kosmo Council when it came to the visions he has in terms of improving efficiency and making decisions at local level. But I think it's failing. We have the experience to achieve this, for example. on bundling and division of tasks, it is little concrete that has come out. But on the basis of the statements of the Council of State, I would like to challenge him in terms of East-Agder and West-Agder, which he also mentioned in his contribution. He said it was important to get a anchoring locally, and that he should listen and listen to both politicians and people there. Then is my question to the Council of State Kosmo, who has been in government before, and who has by no means cared about listening to and listening to people: is it the party pomps that sit in the county council, one should listen to, those that are associated with the municipalities, one should listen to, or should a listen to people through a referendum? If there are people in a referendum to listen to, I would like to ask the Council of State if he is now – unlike before – willing to bow to a referendum, where the voice of the people is clear, and where it has been expressed that they either will or will not have a coup d'état of Aust-Agder and West-Agder, for example, and whether the Government will comply. Otherwise, this debate is as usual: the centre party sympathizes and complains. In contrast to the Central Party, I believe that the county council is a threat to people in the individual municipalities, when one sees how the party and state politicians act against them as a real guardian, and when one looks at the tasks that the county council has today, which the government has fortunately said they will do something about, by moving responsibility in terms of hospitals, from the county municipalities to the state. One also sees that the poor economy of county municipalities has been used as an argument to justify the lack of migration process in the counties. But it is clear that when the county councils are no longer to be responsible for the hospitals, it will be very little left for the county councils. Then I think it's nice to hear that there are several speakers here who will give the county councils even more tasks than they've had before, as well as fill in to give legitimacy to have state politicians, who in my view – put a little on the verge – very often act as bread politicians who might not be so concerned about what they really should do for people. The Great Government and the Great Government are good at dictating. We politicians, like the Council of State, are in individual cases also very concerned about earmarking funds. But why do we care about earmarking funds for county municipalities? Well, that's because, to date, state politicians have never been able to solve the county's primary tasks. Why else would we have 300,000 in some conditioner? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3934]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e529	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e538	St. Report. No 41 for 2000–2001 on fire and explosion protection is an important spillage message proposing new targets in the field of fire and explosion for the period 2001–2005, based on an evaluation of the results in this area in the 1990s. It is essentially a unanimous committee that endorses the content of the various areas of the communication, which must be interpreted to mean that this is a well-worked big message from the Government. It is a regrettable fact that Norway burns relatively more than in most other European countries, and that relatively more people die in fires in this country compared with the population than in other European countries. St.meld. No Therefore, 41 set new targets to reduce the fire incidence in Norway to a lower level by 2005. In this context, there is a significant challenge in reducing the number of fire accidents in Norway and the Committee is confident that the measures addressed by the notification will be appropriate instruments to achieve the new objectives. Otherwise, I would like to mention briefly from the Committee's position that the Committee expresses concern about the lack of fire safety in public institutions, especially where there are elderly and nursing people. Another important area of concern referred to by the Committee is the transport of dangerous goods on the roads and the fire safety of long road tunnels. Here the Committee has said that we should pay particular attention to developments. The Committee also supports the introduction of a common emergency number, 112, for both fire, police and ambulances. The Committee will also strengthen the requirements for the responsible organisers of youth festivals as regards the responsibility for the appropriateness of the sites used. The coordination of the Fire Safety Act, the Fire Hazard Act and the Explosion Act is, in the Committee's view, a proper step towards simplification and a better understanding and overview of the legislation in this field. It is also important that part-time firefighters soon receive the basic training that is necessary, which has been a problem for too long and has not yet been fully solved. In the opinion of the Committee, the merger of DBE and PE is correct. However, the possible aggregation of DBE and NSO should not, in the opinion of the Committee, take place until the Ministry of Justice’s notification of social security and preparedness has been addressed, so the notification of vulnerability should mention this first. As far as it has been in the Committee, I refer to control activities on pressure-approved equipment currently being carried out by the TKT department in DBE. A majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, consider it appropriate, after an overall assessment, to support the Ministry’s proposal to have an independent technical control body take over the control and certification activities on pressure-approved equipment currently carried out by the TKT. However, the minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, disagree and propose that TKT districts be maintained as today. The argument for this minority's point of view and proposals in this area is that a spokesman for the rapporteurs may be speaking from the Chair. With this, I hope, as the rapporteur-in-Office and on behalf of the Committee, that this important communication will be a useful tool for the management of the fire and explosion response in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e566	I would like to refer to the rapporteur's excellent handling of this matter and would just like to add a few brief comments to the vote. When I allow myself to boast of the case rapporteur, it is not only with a background in broad agreement in the setting, but a thorough and open progress in the processing of the message, and that despite the fact that it was busy in the committee. For the Government and the Workers' Party, it is important that the main guidelines for the overall efforts of State and municipal authorities are now defined. In relation to the objectives we set in the 1990s, we have come a long way in developing a functional and modern regulatory framework, and we have used information as a tool in the field of fire protection. The area where work is still to be done and which has an improvement potential is to improve coordination and the efficient use of both local and regional and central resources in the field of fire protection, rescue and preparedness. The communication outlines strategies and a number of measures to achieve these objectives. This may include, inter alia: Specific efforts are still mentioned against residential fires, protective works against objects and devices, conversion and increased competence in municipal fire services, and systematic and targeted information work for the population. It is also important that we have functional and timely legislation, but at the same time it is important to remember that it is not the legislation that prevents fires. As the rapporteur said, the greatest disagreement in the setting of the TKT district issue is. The majority support the ministry's view in the matter, while the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left promote proposals to maintain TKT districts as today. As I said, the Labour Party is satisfied with the setting and also with the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e581	It has been important for the Committee to have a rapid approach to this major issue, such as: work on the legislative review in this area – merging the three laws into one law – could begin. Like the previous speaker, I should like to commend the rapporteur on the progress made in the work. The Christian People's Party believes that coordination of the three laws will contribute to simplification, better understanding and better understanding of the legislation. In Norway, we face major challenges in reducing the number of fire accidents. Increased efforts and resource use are needed to reduce significantly the number and extent of fire accidents in Norway. This is the point on which the Committee agrees. In recent years, there have also been several major fires and major - accident incidents in Norway. Here is the mention of the train accident on Åsta and fire in two propane wagons at Lillestrom station. The Committee is concerned about the increasing risk posed by increasing numbers of home-dwelling care providers. In my own hometown, Harstad, in winter we had a tragic fire in an elderly institution that caused more people to die. As regards the safety of all public, municipal and private health institutions, the entire Committee calls for immediate action by the Government to be taken to improve the safety of institutions as quickly as possible. A new contribution in the emergency context is the civil defence peace groups, the so-called FIGs. These have been established in order to make better use of civil protection resources for peaceful tasks. These are given, inter alia: fire-fighting training and equipment. These emergency teams are in addition to the primary emergency services of municipalities, but today, through civil protection schools, they have a much better training system than the fire department's part-time strength. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there is a lack of coordination between civil defence peace groups and the fire services in the municipalities. It is important to follow up efforts to improve coordination in order to achieve a significant social benefit. I myself have had the opportunity to participate in an exercise in relation to an accident, arranged by the Civil Protection Emergency Team. I participated in an exercise in Nord-Troms, in Kvänangen, and I was impressed by both the expertise and the local knowledge that this group had. The Christian People's Party would stress that regular checking of pressure-approved equipment is important for the safety of many enterprises. Such equipment is available in many enterprises and is made up of several thousand units in need of annual control and supervision. Most of this is carried out by the Supervisory and Control Department, TKT District, of the Directorate of Fire and Explosive Protection. The Christian People's Party sees it as important that we maintain today's TKT district. We consider it irresponsible to shut down these control activities, as the Government has proposed, and propose that it be maintained as today. The reasons for this proposal are primarily security. This department is currently present throughout the country and offers services of equal price throughout the country. We are afraid that the organisation proposed will lead to greater costs, less control and that businesses will not take this so seriously. Today's system is good, both in terms of security and in terms of equal, fair and fair treatment of all enterprises in the country. I take this up with us the proposal to which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e602	Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e605	After that, it would be unnecessary to stress that we are all committed to the importance of security. I look forward to a possible tightening of control and improved lawmaking in this area. My comment will follow a little bit of a different line, namely, after the committee comments that draw up the interface between private and public behaviour in this context. The Committee has been able to discuss itself until it understands that there is a difference between the exercise of authority and firefighting. This means that fire-extinguishing can be privatised in a way. There is a consolation comment from the minority, the members of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, that although there are good examples of privatisation in Denmark, the benefits may not be so great that you need to take it seriously yet. The Government Party has strongly signalled a possible merger of DBE and the Industry Security Organisation and is therefore outside the comment stating that the vulnerability analysis should be awaited. The Procedural Party rapporteur has shown exceptional caution in the approach to this privatisation of certification tasks with regard to pressure-approved equipment. There is reason to give credit for this because of a certain risk of private monopoly in this context. It is then gratifying that the Government Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have called for this to be done, with some consideration of reasonable price developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e618	St. Announcement No. 41 passed the Council of State on 27 April. The municipal committee faced a difficult choice: rapid handling without hearings and inspections or allowing the message to be sent over the summer. We knew that the government had a desire for swift follow-up, and we knew the need for both changes of promise and follow-up. It may well be up to some of us to come closer to the next phase, at least for those of us who at a hectic stage in the committee have had more than enough messages and propositions that were already in the committee. The centre party view is made by the setting. This is a configuration that the vocabulary manager has handled in the best possible way. The Christian People's Party, SV and the Central Party are united on some minority comments and on the proposal to hold up TKT districts as today. I will, for the sake of the agenda otherwise, pay attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e627	This is an area which is not on the usual political agenda so often. That is why it is not the usual political debates that are going around it. At the same time, these are very serious and important areas of concern. It is true that when major accidents occur, and unfortunately this has recently been done, the conclusion has often been that maintenance or the necessary safety measures have not been implemented. Sometimes it has been mandatory and not implemented, sometimes it has just not been in place. Most of us probably wanted a little bit more time on this to get into it properly, because there are themes that we don't know much about. We have chosen to deal with this now, because we want to give the government a starting signal to the measures mentioned here, which are very positive. But I think there's a need to get back to this, because there's been several cases where we've been left with many questions: could you have done anything to prevent accidents? It is also difficult to set boundaries between public liability and private liability to prevent accidents. Unfortunately, there is often a lack of willingness to maintain a satisfactory preparedness. It costs money – it costs a lot of money – and many times it doesn't seem anywhere. Spending money on security is almost like spending money for nothing to happen. Too many people find it a little pointless, and it's easy to miss. Loss of money and loss of human life are two things you can never weigh up against each other. That is why it is important that we, as politicians, take on the responsibility of spending enough resources to ensure that security is good enough. I agree with those who say that we come back to some of this also when we look at the report of the Vulnerability Committee, because here are many things that are related and to be seen in the context. SV has been very concerned about strengthening control activities, especially in the case of dangerous goods. There is a large increase in the amount of dangerous goods. I don't know if most people are aware of how much it is that is sweeping around their ears on the roads. Most of what we hope to do is in controlled and legal forms, but when you have had great controls, and the government has reported it back in the last few years, it has unfortunately not. There are many people who have escaped, and it has given a competitive advantage to those carriers who do not follow the rules. It'll be cheaper to transport that way. Parts of the industry are very concerned about this. One does not see himself exactly served by that kind of unfair competition, which also puts the safety of the public at great risk. SV does not believe that there is a lack of legislation, on the contrary, it will be a high stack if you put the permafrosts on each other, but there is probably a need to make it several times easier to understand. Well, there has to be a certain danger of being taken, to make people follow such rules, so that they don't choose the cheapest solution, leave it alone, and hope that it goes well. SV has also been very concerned that we need to speed up the training of firefighters. There has been a problem with both the full-time employees and with the extra crews. The proposition now refers to taking a new grip and getting it in place. We have also been working to provide the fire authorities with an opportunity to intervene early in the construction phase by building long tunnels. It was at least a surprise to me that they didn't have it, and that such things should come later. It does not seem particularly appropriate. We have also been concerned that there are many new types of building mass now, large business complexes and new ways of building, which in many ways increase the risk. There are many people gathered there, and it requires completely different disaster plans than the ones we have today. In addition, we have been concerned that large youth parties are often held in inappropriate premises, where it turns out that no one is responsible for what is happening. In such cases, it must be possible to require that there should be responsible organisers. Then we have also tried to bring in, and the Committee has agreed, that environmental considerations must also count when developing different types of fire-fighting aids.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e648	The goals we've set ourselves in this area are really ambitious, and I'm glad that the Storting as a whole has joined these ambitious goals. There's too much burning in Norway. It shouldn't burn that much, but it does anyway. I'll try to say something about what I think is the most important thing we can do to achieve these ambitious goals. The first, and perhaps most important, is that we get a reinforced effort to prevent fire, whether it's in buildings or it's in serious accidents, and the supervision must have a reinforced and special focus on those areas where we know from experience that we can get killed by fire. That is why I am particularly pleased with what the committee says about the significant focus we need, among other things. in health and elderly institutions. But there's a paradox here. As the representative Karin Andersen said, there is no lack of laws and regulations and guidance documents. The amount is so colossal that it's almost impermeable, but what's missing is the follow-up of companies, institutions and the population to take this seriously. It is a serious warning to us politicians that we have come into such a situation that we do not have the power to create commitment around what should be our tool to prevent the loss of life. Here we need to get significantly better. One thing that is quite obvious is that we need to exploit in particular the professional part of our fire corps to a much greater extent to be able to carry out better active supervision. Then we might have to become more stringent when we see that businesses and institutions do not follow the rules that they have to follow. Maybe we're dealing with this with a little bit too friendly gloves? Maybe we should do it faster and make examples? I am at least pleased with the decisions taken by the police, where, in the absence of follow-up to given orders, there have actually been heavy fines. That is why it is also important that we focus on further developing legislation, so that we have a functional and time-consuming regulatory framework that is adapted to the tasks and ambitions we have at national level. But we also need to ensure that we fulfil our international obligations, especially in relation to what was said here about the transport of dangerous goods. Because it doesn't just go across municipalities and counties in this country, it also goes across borders. It is quite clear that we in the transport sector have a lot of work to do in this area. So I'll mention one thing that's very important. It is working intensively to ensure that we have a systematic health, environmental and safety work in all establishments in this country. While it is clear that ensuring itself against fire is not what has so far been perceived as the best work environment measure, we know from experience that the activities that place the greatest emphasis on health, the environment and safety are also the least exposed to large fires. The fact that there are clear links in these areas is certain. Then we're going to be able to convert and increase the competence of municipal fire services. I would say here from this pulpit that there is no goal in itself to privatize any municipal fire department. But it's clear that it's a goal in itself to get the municipal fire services that we have around in this country, to cooperate better. It is not necessary for all fire services within an acceptable recovery time to develop their competencies and equipment in parallel. There is a potential for significantly greater cooperation and, of course, a system needs to be developed to enable municipalities to purchase services from each other in order to develop professional fire services. This does not have to draw in such a direction that we want to increase the degree of privatisation. I must also say that I am pleased that the committee was going to deliver the order in the case. The Committee's position is important for the preparation of the comprehensive legislative work that we will be doing in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e668	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3936]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e682	No one has asked for the floor. We have then come to case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3937]] This setting has not been beyond the regulatory period of 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e698	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each of the groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e705	Sales of the country's properties are increasing as they are no longer in use or have no economic resources to keep them. These are properties that the country has previously had in order to solve its tasks, often within healthcare. Sometimes they are sold to the municipality, but sometimes they are placed on the open market and sold to the highest bidder, with or without clauses on the type of use and, where appropriate, time prospects. In this case, it's about the state property Birkelid. The property of Birkelid, which represents a total of about seven objectives, of which significant parts are forest, is located near Kristiansand. The built-up part of the property has been used by the country for special educational purposes. Following the closure/movement of this activity, the property has been included in the list of properties to be sold by State Building, while it has been temporarily used as a refugee recipient. According to information provided by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the reception shall be closed on 30 July 2001. The rental income currently represents approx. Six hundred and sixty-five million. NOK, and the rental is intended to be cost-effective. Renting or fastening has not been considered an alternative to sale. The price of the property is 26.5 million. NOK, and the municipality of Songdalen has been offered to purchase parts of the property. The Progress Party notes that the municipality wants primarily to take over the property free of charge for establishing regional or intermunicipal activities at Birkelid in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities and the county council, and is not willing to purchase the property, including buildings, at a price. The Contracting Party also notes that, in line with the disposal instructions, the case has been submitted to the Ministry of Finance for its opinion. In a letter dated 14 March 2001, the Ministry of Finance opposes the sale at a sub-price and points out that there are no compelling reasons to derogate from the general rule of sale at market prices, and that in this case sales at a sub-price would create a stronger pressure from other municipalities to sell their properties fairly. This is something we need to take note of, and get common guidelines for. The Progress Party does not support the proposal to sell the property Birkelid to the Municipality of Songdalen for 5 million. kr – property with a fare, as referred to in paragraph 26.5 million. kr. The party to the progress is of the opinion that State properties to be disposed of are to be sold at market prices in the absence of specific considerations. The party to the progress cannot see that such particular considerations exist in this case. I therefore propose the following proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Stolt-Nielsen: ‘The decision asks the Government to sell the property Birkelid at market prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e725	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3937]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e741	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e750	Document No 8:100, from different representatives from several batches, is essentially about ensuring that small producers also have the opportunity to sell their goods through the chains of the grocery market. This shall be done by ensuring that chains and shops do not abuse the dominant position in which they can come from small product producers. I don't think anyone in this room thinks it should be possible to abuse any kind of dominant position in the market to restrict competition. As you know, it's going to affect consumers. It is also regulated by today's legislation. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing in this case is to focus on consumers. Therefore, it is not appropriate to introduce laws that would allow consumers to get out worse than today. This applies not least in terms of price and quality, but also in terms of ensuring that consumers have access to the diversity of goods. That is why, not least through the Ministry of Agriculture and the value creation programme, we have tried to stimulate the production of goods and the development of new brands. What is the reality of the proposal is that the majority now want in many ways an EU approach to our competition law. One of the traditions we've had behind our competition policy is not to prohibit, but to give opportunities and openings to intervene where necessary to ensure consumers. Now, with the Right Party and the Advance Party at the head, the majority will oblige the Government to introduce a prohibition clause without having further investigated it. The reality is that the Government has already set up a separate selection to review the entire Competition Act and assess, inter alia, the following: This. It's true that this will take time. For this reason, the Council of State has also informed us that the sample will complete what is EEA-related until 1 November this year. Then we have no greater urgency than that we should at least avoid that thoroughness, if we are to do what the bourgeois parties want, namely to introduce a prohibition clause. In the strictest sense, this could be a proposal which helps to make groceries actually more expensive for consumers, if it is such that it ends up with a policy which, in reality, requires chains to take more goods into absolutely all shops. Now, we have to interpret it in the best possible sense, so I don't expect that to be the intention of the proposal, but perhaps rather a little overconfident from the parties who want to have the law now, rather than waiting until we get the thorough evaluation in November. I would assume that a law-making must also mean a more active attitude of the Competition Authority, with the expectation that it will be more frequently intervened. That would have been positive, but it does not conflict with what is today's legislation. But there are different traditions behind Norwegian competition law and what is a European tradition of competition law. Ensuring a system that benefits consumers as much as possible will be a major challenge for supervision, which will also be the best socio-economic. If I am so free, I would like to point out that in the efforts of citizens today to act offensively, they have proposed that today's guidelines governing business denials be legalised. So if you're going to put it a little bit on the verge, today's dose of civil cooperation is going to be two proposals to make further laws and bans, as well as a red tape of rules and policies that are basically the same, anyway. The only reservation I want to make is that if it's actually the intention of the bourgeois parties to make the groceries more expensive to consumers, that's not our starting point. On the contrary, and that is what will form the basis for the work that must also be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e771	Document No The 8:100 proposal to investigate competition conditions in the grocery market provides a full description of a development that consumers of groceries have gradually adapted to us over many years: the growth of a few, more specifically four, food chains that have divided the country between themselves and changed the Norwegian retail landscape to the almost unrecognizable. The rich mosaic of small and large service-set single buyers, whether located in the country branches or on the city street corners, is for the longest time a fairy tale. They are replaced by chain shops that appear to be efficient self-service machines, where everything is uniformed, A4-shaped and boring, which chains easily become. And when the leaders of these chains stand on the screen and speak out, there's one thing about: There's lower prices, lower prices and even lower prices. Well and good, that, but does this have no limits? Lower prices do not mean everything, especially if the ‘price’ for the whole of society is going to be very high overall? I have a strong impression that it's the Workers' Party usually very concerned, but it doesn't seem that the social costs in this context mean so much. Of course, it's both easy, some might say 'cheap' too, to evoke memories of old idylls in such a context. Of course, developments are not turning around. But it has to be possible to stop crops that we don't want to develop. The power of the food chains has been debated before in this Chamber, for example: in the context of an interpellation of the representative Morten Lund travelled in 1998. At that time, a number of examples of adverse use of market power were also cited, in particular in relation to smaller food producers who had clearly shown that what they produced was of high quality and should normally have been competitive, but which were prevented from both entering and subsequently growing on the market. The list of examples of this has probably been extended several times since then. The result is that no new ones dare to take the risk of betting. The real competitiveness of many is too low. The four large ones, representing a total of 98-99 pst. also tends to think in the same ways and behave the same way. Here, a huge market power is concentrated on a few hands. Some large producers are preferred through monopolised purchasing agreements at the expense of e.g.: competent local producers who wish to enter the market. This reduces the diversity of consumer choice. These issues are adequately described in the proposal of the relevant representatives, and I shall not delay the extension of this. So you can object: why not take the time it takes to allow the reduced competition committee to assess this before we go to the step of changing the legislation? Normally it could be a correct assessment. In this case, the Christian People's Party believes that it is too long to wait. It'll take years. And «while the grass grows», many cows will die, to rewrite a little bit on the saying. This is a situation that has been known for a long time, and there should be nothing in the way of taking any grip, quickly. Of course, the work on new competition law is much more extensive and must continue, but it is a matter of simple action such as imposing a ban on abuse of market power, which has been introduced both in the United Kingdom and in our neighbouring countries, as is well known. It is a little strange to listen to the Competition Authority’s argument against such a reform. The supervision shows correctly that they can already intervene if they have clear evidence that someone is misusing their position. They're saying that it's happening in terms of the social economy. ‘It is not punishable in Norway today to abuse its dominant position’, says first consultant Fredrik Ottesen of the Competition Authority. In this context, I would like to refer to what the Address Paper today writes in the leadership position: ‘The argument suggests that the Competition Authority has not captured the point. This time it is not about «Societal economic efficiency». These are the rights which it is reasonable for consumers and small producers to enjoy. These too should be protected from any misuse of power’. This is entirely in line with the view of the Christian People's Party. I regret that the Socialist Left Party has jumped off and will no longer be in favour of the proposal they had previously been behind. I'm assuming that they themselves will explain this relationship. However, I am pleased that there is a majority in the Committee who are still united on this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e800	The last few days' media reports on this matter have made it possible for me to receive both nice and not so gentle e-mails and views. Some have thought it sounded so fun that they would now get a better selection of Rimi; others have been afraid that prices would rise. And some small manufacturers have hoped that they now had a free ticket to the store. I actually think everyone can count on none of these things happening. It is not that it is possible to speculate, as the rapporteur does, and to say that extending the powers of intervention in Section 3 will remove the main objective of the Competition Act. The main objective of the Competition Act is socio-economic efficiency. This means that if there were to be a risk of higher prices by intervening and using this new intervention clause, it would actually mean that you would not intervene. But that's a need, because market power can be exercised in many ways. Market power may include, inter alia: not only to take out money directly but, in the long term, to squander other suppliers, and in the long term to build up loyalty to producers, which in the long term will again have an economic impact in terms of less competition and higher prices. This means that for us, it is important that we look at all ways that market power can be exploited. It is true that in a society where we have gradually got four major chains – fortunately, it looks like some new competitors are coming into the market – the potential for exercising such a market power is far more present than it has been in the past, the potential for, among other things. to be able to squander some smaller producers and to squander local shops within the chain system from being able to deliver from those from whom they actually want to deliver. And not least, it is a potential for some major suppliers to push chains and shops to just deliver their goods and not take in anyone else's. This has led us to believe, because we are concerned about the functioning of the market economy, that there is a need to address all parts of the potential market power through competition law. What we are promoting, I don't think, is going to lead to a revolution overnight, because what we are primarily promoting in the proposal is to give an opportunity – without complaint – to go in and see if you take advantage of market power. Because it's a problem that some of those exposed to this are afraid of long-term consequences of just standing up to the chains. And if you're going to start a thing first, they think it's problematic. Therefore, it is an essential element of the proposal promoted that this should be something that the Competition Authority can do on its own initiative. Today, they address primarily the notifications from individual suppliers that they are made aware of. Then I want to stress that we need to sort of think about the context of our policies. This applies, inter alia, to: Our – from the right – desire to be able to liquidate some of the monopolies in the food industry, in agriculture and in agriculture, and we want to encourage more local scale production and availability through the shops. It also means that it is important to ensure that there is a receiver for this type of goods. At least it can assure us that if you're competitive, you're not being squandered, for example. by another supplier who tries to push one out by crossing different types of product range and says that we do not want this. In particular, what we are proposing is that the policies that are already applied to business denials, which are part of what I have just described, should be legally binding and directly incorporated into the law. It will in fact strengthen competition rules in the future. I understand in and of course the Competition Authority, because this is more difficult to decide than to decide directly whether they have a direct effect on price. It would have been easier for them to have a reindeer law to deal with. But these are long-term, important parts of how to use market power, which means that for the Right, this is supposed to be an intervention, but not a price rise. And I haven't thought to agree at any time that we're going to decide which groceries are to be available around the shops. This is to give a mandate or a legal basis to the Competition Authority, and not that politicians should control what you get purchased at the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e826	The Party of Progress shall take part in the observations made by the majority on Document No. 8:100, competition in the food market. This is because the Progress Party also does not want a possible monopoly, where a few players can run a market where, if they so wish, not everyone can participate on equal terms. The progress party records today's Evening Post that small producers say they are well received as long as they do their job. If so, the market is functioning as the Progress Party wishes. If not, you need to take a closer look at the matter. Norway can adopt EU rules, i.e. EEA rules, which will make it easier for authorities to intervene if necessary. What we politicians have to remember is that we don't have to go in and control everything, but look at the big lines, and in our regulators don't go too far. Rather, the Progress Party will provide a framework to enable the market within it to survive and evolve according to the wishes of the market. The progress batch has been in contact with some drivers of shops involved in some of the chains mentioned initially in the setting. Here we are told that in a limited amount there are possibilities to take goods with a local variant, and that this is done to the extent that the drivers want it. It will be exciting to see if there is a need for the proposals that the Government will make, so that any abuse of dominant positions is removed – for the benefit of everyone. The Progress Party believes that a monopoly is harmful to a society no matter what the monopoly contributes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e839	I have to admit that this sounds a bit exciting, but I find it difficult to see clearly how we are going to do it. It is clear that no one wants, in particular in the development of the food chain and the strong market power of these four – perhaps in the future five – chains, that this should mean that it should not be possible for local or small suppliers to enter to sell their products. But we cannot create a regulatory system in this country that requires business operators to buy from certain suppliers. We can't create a monopoly system for food chains. That's not possible. I would therefore like to see the political issue raised by the Committee and the proposers, which are interesting, left to the sample, so that the sample could assess how we are going to deal with this. I must say that I had then felt more confident that we had been able to deliver a product back to the legislators that we were sure of working, and that was actually for the benefit of consumers – and not price-driven, as it can be if we go too far in ordering the individual dealer to take in more products than you really want. But I've noticed what the majority want, and I have to try to find a way to deal with this. I admit that it's going to be challenging -- maybe the opportunity is to give the sample a special look at this, over a shorter period, and then return the evaluation. At least we can't put down a new sample to look at this. I take note of the Committee's wish, but I warn you that I think this is going to be a demanding operation. But of course, we're going to do what we can to fulfill the Storting's wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e848	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e851	I will first address the proposal of the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV. The Christian People's Party is trying to put the socio-economic against the interests of consumers, and as I also pointed out in my speech, I see it in this matter as exactly the same, without any contradiction. They also tried to make a point that they stand for something other than the Workers' Party and SV stand for in this matter. That's actually not the case. There is a great deal of consensus within the Committee on the intentions. I also registered that the Right believed that this made it possible to intervene without getting any complaints. As far as I have understood of this matter, it is possible today as well, but it is not always as easy to figure out all the things, because you often have to rely on tips. That's a situation that will also last later. I haven't realized that there's a lot of disagreement about the intentions. What's a little bit of a disagreement about is how to do it. And what I'm concerned about is that this has to be done in a proper way, so that the intentions are respected, that we don't get any unfortunate results that have actually been shown that there are opportunities to get in this case as well. I think when it comes to the problem, we'll agree on how to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e862	The representative Alstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3938]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e878	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3938]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e892	Because of the input of the Council of State into the debate we had in Odelstinget, and because many have also encouraged me to ask for the transmission of this proposal, I would ask for it to be sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e897	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3938]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e915	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3938]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e929	On behalf of the proposers, I would like to ask that this proposal be transmitted as well. The reason is that we have also been invited to submit this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e934	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e948	Very briefly: I would like to ask for the proposal to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e968	Same procedure as in the previous case: I would like to ask for the proposal to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e973	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e987	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1001	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1015	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1029	After a massive pressure and many and strong calls, I would like to ask for the proposal to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1034	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1048	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3939]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1062	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 19 and 20 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 3940]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1087	The Council of Europe is the pan-European body that upholds human rights and democratic development in the Member States as its primary task. The organisation is involved in a number of fields, not least in relation to Europe’s conflict areas, and in those areas where specific efforts are required to rebuild societies following significant conflicts — for example: The Council of Europe is an important contributor to the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe and has made considerable efforts in several places, including the following: in the context of the Chechenia conflict, in the Caucasus and as mentioned above, in the Balkans. There's no need to go into this. I just want to point out that from January this year, the Council of Europe has 43 member countries, with Armenia and Azerbaijan being brought up as new Member States. This process is probably one of the Council of Europe's most important activities towards new Member States, with all States from former authoritarian regimes seeking the Council of Europe as its first gateway to democratic Europe. It now includes, with a few exceptions, all the countries within our continent. In such a process, the Council of Europe has two important considerations to take into account. One is that the candidate countries have achieved stable and satisfactory progress in accordance with the democratic standards set by European society, for example. pluralist democracy, freedom of the press, legal certainty, etc. But on the other hand, the recording process itself is a handshake and a help on the way, even where the regimes may still have significant difficulties on the democratic scale to which we all confess. So here it has to be balanced. To date, the Council of Europe has chosen as a reflection that the process should be safe, but does not demand perfection against the democratic standards set – in brackets, there are probably also a number of older European Council countries that have not achieved the perfection. So we are seeking confirmation of a stable development, but we realize that in a transitional phase there may be something to work with in democratic development. And then it is important that the Council of Europe is able to give it a hand bill after such a balance has been made. I say this because two of the candidate countries now left are in the Balkans and close to important conflict areas. Both Bosnia-Herzegovina and, in this context, Yugoslavia in particular, are among the countries that the Council of Europe needs to assess in relation to the speed of the process in order to take up the role of new Member States. We all know what conflicts and internal difficulties are in the way here, but I believe that here too, and especially in Yugoslavia, the fact that membership itself could be an expeditious part of a democratic and stabilising process will have to be an important argument that must be included in the process that the Council of Europe is now going to have to pursue, and of course also in terms of what political positions we are going to adopt at home. So far about it. I mentioned that the number of Member States has increased considerably. This creates certain problems for the Council of Europe budgets. Traditionally, it has not been difficult for Member States to contribute project support to different projects in the Council of Europe's field of work. And Norway has made a very significant effort in several areas here, but it goes without saying that when so many new Member States arrive in the near future, the situation in which the organisation is now in, with time in a row of zero growth in its ordinary budgets, will be a problem that the governments of the Member States will have to deal with in a proper way in order not to lose the profile of the Council of Europe in this important transition phase. This applies not least to the reformed court. Much of the authority of the Council of Europe is based on the right of appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for individual citizens of the Member States to be properly and promptly treated. With so many new Member States, it goes without saying that here the range of cases can easily accumulate, and if this vital instrument does not get rid of the cases, the authority of the Council of Europe and therefore the work on human rights in Europe could also be harmful. Finally, I would like to say that the Council of Europe consists of cooperation in a number of areas, and where a number of Norwegian institutions and bodies participate. It is at government level, it is at parliamentary level, it is at office, it is at voluntary level, it is at expert level, it is at expert level, etc. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an annual joint meeting of various actors to provide views on developments and to some extent coordinate these very important activities. I believe that this coordination function is very important, and I hope that not only these annual coordination meetings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue, but also the Government will place considerable emphasis on both coordinating and presenting the overall efforts of the Council of Europe, further in Norwegian society than is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1111	The Council of Europe is today a meeting place and a common venue for what we might call old and new democracies in Europe. I would say that, after the fall of the Wall, the Council of Europe has regained life and increased importance. Pluralist democracy, legal certainty and human rights – these are values that we must guard against and not four on. Some critics in other countries, both in old Eastern Europe and not to talk about Africa and Asia, although it is not the text of today, try to defend a lack of respect for human rights, democracy and legal certainty by claiming that these are Western European ideas that do not fit in with them, at least not as we have defined it. But it's not like that. The Council of Europe stands as a guardian of universal, universal human rights and values, and we have nothing to do with it. I guess we've been too reluctant to make demands on the governments of the countries that receive Western or Norwegian financial assistance. I think this might be some of the explanation that aid, u-help, is not as strong in all parts of our population, but it would have deserved it. Economic assistance should, I believe, be accompanied by a binding programme between those who provide the assistance and those who receive it, on the development of multi-party democracy, the safeguarding of human rights and legal certainty. If this obligatory programme is not followed up, the assistance should be reduced or cancelled. Why should we, who are so fortunate to live in free, democratic countries, be relaxed in relation to other people's right to experience the same benefits that we hold totally inalienable? Tom Thoresen said that we should not demand perfection – and I agree with that, of course, because then no one would meet the requirements – but a stable development in the right direction. I agree with the rapporteur. Tom Thoresen has been the head of the Norwegian delegation to the Council of Europe since 1989. Unfortunately, he is not allowed to continue. But I would like to thank him on behalf of the delegation for good leadership and unselfish effort in all these years. That doesn't mean I thank him for everything he thinks, but I thank him for the way he has represented his country and his party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1124	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 19 and 20. [[Fotation, see page 3940]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1138	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3940]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1152	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual submissions. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1155	On behalf of Jan Petersen, who is the case rapporteur, I – in his absence – would like to make some comments on this communication. This NATO cooperation message in 2000 has no less than 18 annexes. The declaration and communications from the many cooperation forums and structures now linked to NATO say a lot about a highly active organisation, which is at the heart of security policy work in Europe. The picture of security policy is changing rapidly. Macedonia is not mentioned in the chapter on the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. It reflects the unforeseeable nature of the situation in the Balkans and the importance of European security cooperation. If one were to try to imagine what the conflicts in the Balkans could have resulted if the national states of Europe had not co-existed within NATO and the EU, but, on the contrary, in a unilateral approach to security policy, it would indeed be illustrated why Norway must also be committed to building cooperation structures in our own part of the world. In Macedonia, the EU and NATO, in cooperation, have made significant efforts to address an even greater crisis. We're going to see more of a collaboration between these two organizations. They complement each other in a good way. The EU has led diplomatic and political efforts to get the authorities of Macedonia to implement reforms that can reduce ethnic tension in the country. NATO's military presence is stabilising and enabling diplomatic efforts. NATO is the guarantor of political cooperation in the Balkans. But the situation is now worrying. The Albanian guerrilla in Macedonia has put the truce that was concluded this week, in danger after an ambush on six policemen. 6000 refugees crossed the Monday border of Kosovo. In total, approx. 40,000 refugees from Macedonia found their way to Kosovo and Serbia. Developments make it appropriate to consider strengthening efforts from both NATO and the EU in the future, and I assume that the Foreign Minister will address this further in his intervention. It is important that the need for continued military presence in the Balkans was underlined at both the recent NATO Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence meeting. The United States has previously announced reductions in its presence. It would be unfortunate if such a reduction were to come into the current situation in the Balkans. One has certainly opposed the need to consider stepping up military involvement. The Communication explains the work on the European Security and Defence Identity. A key issue has been how cooperation between the EU and NATO can be integrated into permanent structures. The uplifting messages that Turkey is now willing to suspend its blockade of cooperation between the two organisations are taking a long step forward in European security cooperation. Recent developments indicate that the EU will be as important as NATO in relation to several of the safety challenges we can see today in Europe. Then it is not difficult to see how unfortunate it is that Norway is outside the EU when we talk about security policy. Much will depend in the future on how the EU-NATO relationship develops, not least in the United States. For its part, the right would stress that this is only a second best solution for Norway. All the world’s consultation arrangements do not allow us to be part of the ongoing discussion in the EU’s internal organs. Following yesterday's Brussels Summit, it has now been confirmed that next year the NATO Summit in Prague will be the opportunity of the alliance to start the next NATO round of enlargement. The debate on enlargement will take place from now on. A majority of the Committee considers that the enlargement process must continue and that Baltic countries should be included in the next round of enlargement. It's a paradox that the strongest objections to NATO's expansion come from the professional military and from the SV. SV believes that the extension of NATO must take place in agreement with Russia. In this case, coordinating the interests we share with Russia does not mean. The Swedish approach means putting Russia’s interests ahead of the need for stability and security of other countries. It is a political line Norway has not seen itself serving, and the Baltic countries, of course, do not see themselves serving. On the right, it looks like completely out-of-date politics to give some sort of Russian veto in the enlargement process. Historical and geographical reasons shall not be exclusive to alliance membership. In practice, this means that no specific requirements should be imposed on the Baltic countries because of their location. Cooperation between NATO and Russia is nevertheless invaluable and an important part of our own Russia strategy. It is essential to bring Russia closer into the Euro-Atlantic security cooperation. Discussions with Russia on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, on disarmament, on scientific and environmental challenges contribute to further breaking the barriers of the Cold War. The fact that the alliance so clearly condemns the violations of human rights and warfare in Chechnya is in many ways a sign of health for the relations between NATO and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1178	Cooperation in NATO in 2000 marked the continuation of the dramatic and historic event-rich year 1999, which will be a long way off as a time gap in the history of the alliance. I am thinking here of the acts of war in Kosovo, the decision on NATO's new strategic concept, the admission of three new members and the development of the ESDP. These events illustrated in many ways the dynamic development that characterises NATO in the transition to a new century. Also in the reporting year 2000, the crisis in Kosovo was a major challenge for NATO, and in particular for Norway, which has been given the responsibility to lead the KFOR force. Following the Nice EU Summit, cooperation between the EU and NATO on security and defence policy in Europe is at an active stage, although the framework for this cooperation cannot yet be said to be completed. There is no doubt that EU defence and security cooperation — the ESDP — represents a demanding challenge for NATO in general and for Norway in particular. The ESDP cannot be realised without close cooperation with NATO, which sits on the military resources. Practical cooperation between NATO and the EU has already delivered some positive results in the Balkans. For example, the establishment of a national assembly body in Macedonia was a concrete outcome of a joint initiative by NATO, the EU and the Swedish Presidency of the EU. NATO and the EU have also played an important role in terms of Serbian return to the security zone of southern Serbia and the disarmament of some Albanian rebel groups. The fact that these operations have taken place without serious incidents and the use of weapons is a significant step forward in restoring civil society in the former conflict areas. But it is part of the story that the situation in Macedonia is very tense, and that the country has long been on the brink of civil war. The situation is critical and currently represents the most serious challenge in this area. As a NATO country, Norway will have an important role to play in ensuring that the new tasks, the new challenges – in particular, crisis management and peace operations – are taken into account, while ensuring that the traditional core functions, primarily collective defence, are maintained in a way acceptable to Norway. Norway is outside the EU and obviously has no place in the Union’s decision-making bodies. However, as a full NATO member, Norway must have a real influence on decisions involving the use of NATO resources. There may be evidence that Turkey, through its steadfast attitude to the demand for influence, is paving the way for solutions that could also benefit Norway. An interpretation of the Nice decisions whereby the European Allied non-EU Member States are directly involved in the decision-making process will undoubtedly be a step in the right direction, also from Norway’s position. It is also important to clarify that any Norwegian participation in actions under the auspices of the UN, NATO, OSCE or the EU should be determined by national decisions. The U.S. plan for a rocket defence was a central theme of NATO's informal summit in Brussels yesterday. The American President's wish for a new advanced missile defense has led a long way towards debate within NATO, with good reason. Realising these plans could, in the worst case, jeopardise the ABM agreement, which could lead to a serious setback in disarmament work. Although some European NATO countries have softened their previous critical views on US plans, Norway should, in the opinion of the Centre Party, continue to see it as a task to work to ensure that these plans are not put into practice. NATO is facing a new round of enlargement of the alliance. Yesterday's summit confirmed that the extension of NATO will take place in the wake of next year's Prague Summit. With regard to the selection of countries, I share the view that appears to be the position of the Norwegian Government, namely that the basis for being taken up as a NATO member should be defined criteria rather than historical, geographical or other reasons. During the joint meeting between the Baltic Council and the Nordic Council in Riga a short time ago, support was given by the Nordic politicians to the three Baltic countries' desire to become part of NATO. If no one has the power to provoke me to new posts, this is my last post from this pulpit as elected by the people. For those who are interested in statistics, I can mention that today it is 31 years and 65 days since I made my first post in Stortinget. I'm not going to make the time a late evening, just this: I feel privileged to have been elected here on the Stortinget, and my brief final remark is short and good this: This has been a great time! So hopefully I'll say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1197	That is not a reason for applause!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1200	Cooperation in NATO is important for Norway in a number of areas, but roughly all of us can place the importance in two main areas: as a defence alliance we need for our own freedom and security, and as the alliance we can contribute to the freedom and security of others. We may prefer to make a known term applicable to Norwegian participation in NATO by rewriting: we ask not only what other countries can do for Norway, but also what Norway can do for them. Yes, for the vast majority of the North, it is doubtful that in our time, NATO appears to be the cooperative body in which we make economics, materials and men available for peacekeeping and peace-building activities. The situation in Kosovo was also a major challenge for NATO in the previous year. On the one hand, the KFOR strength felt that a gradual stabilisation of the situation developed, while on the other hand, developments show that it would take time to create a positive climate as a prerequisite for different populations to live together peacefully and work together towards common goals. On the other hand, the alliance felt that tense and peaceful situations arose in the separation zone between Kosovo and the rest of Yugoslavia. Building peace is a demanding task, but it is important that we also participate with competence in different areas as well as in crews and materials. Norwegian participation is valued in the NATO alliance, and the Christian People's Party supports that we continue our efforts. In NATO context, the United States has been a leading nation in terms of both material equipment and economic investment. In recent years, there has been an increasing awareness from European countries of taking more responsibility and governance on our own continent. There has been a tradition that NATO has cooperated with the Western Union, but progress has been made towards and directed towards the establishment of its own European security and defence policy in the EU, shortened by the ESDP. Important decisions have been taken in view of the structure of the EU's common security and defence policy and how to develop the capacity for own crisis management. For Norway, key issues of principle need to be clarified. Since we are not a member of the EU, but a full member of NATO, we do not automatically fit into the EU's approach. However, it seems that the issues are being satisfactorily addressed. At least from the point of view of my place in the Parliamentary Assembly in the Western Union over the last four years, I can see the wish and will of this Parliament to include Norway in the best possible way and as comprehensively as possible. A clear reason for this is our past and current contribution to security and peace. We have proven that we will and can, and that we are to trust. The Western Union Parliamentary Assembly does not see Norway's position as a full member of NATO and non-member of the EU and the five other countries in a similar position as a major problem for the new EU security and defence policy. The assembly is much more concerned about the structures that have so far shown clear signs of what is called a 'democratic deficit'. In practice, this means fearing an organisation with structures that do not give democratically elected representatives influence with the possibility of decision-making, control and responsibilities. The Western Union Parliamentary Assembly fears an organisation that becomes self-reliant through a ministerial, civil and professional plan. Also in the session in Paris which I am going to tomorrow, this question will have a central place. The ESDP shall not replace NATO. NATO shall continue to be the central forum for security policy consultations. NATO shall continue to be the framework for effective crisis management and a comprehensive military structure. But there should be a close partnership between NATO and the ESDP. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that in this way we will ensure that the EU has a credible capacity for crisis management and that NATO's central position is not weakened. However, it is necessary for the Norwegian Government to be aware of supporting the efforts to prevent the establishment of structures that accentuate democratic deficits.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1219	When examining the last year’s notification of NATO cooperation, SV called for a critical review of the alliance of experiences from the Kosovo crisis. Now we can see that the year 2000 has also gone without NATO systematically and critically studying the lessons of this very special chapter in the history of the alliance. From the point of view of the SV, NATO countries must, both in the light of experience in the Balkans and on a general basis, engage in a proper debate on ethics and methodology in the alliance. After a long time of mistalion and abduction, we finally got a debate and a review of NATO's use of depleted uranium in the Balkans in the New Year. The debate and its investigations have provided, inter alia: the following conclusions: Firstly, NATO had too poor information procedures and too little transparency about the use of weapons in the Kosovo war. Secondly, there is no doubt that there is a major health risk associated with the chemical effect of depleted uranium dust. Thirdly, there is so far no link between the use of depleted uranium in ammunition and leukemia, but there may be radiation hazard when dust from depleted uranium gets stuck in the body, for example. In the lungs. Fourth, there is a risk of groundwater contamination in areas where depleted uranium has been used in ammunition, as pointed out by the UN Environment Programme UNEP – not UNDP, as I have been harmed to write in the SV comments. Based, inter alia, on: this will maintain the view that the product should lead to the fact that the depleted uranium is not to be used in weapons. There are several international processes in progress aimed at reducing the humanitarian consequences of armed conflict. International Red Cross is one of the leaders of this work. Norway is involved, inter alia: in work leading to better protection of children in conflict. SV will require an involvement of the Government to bring these themes into NATO context as well. SV is promoting proposals today, such as: The International Red Cross has called for work to be done on an international agreement to abolish so-called class bombs. The class bombing issue is not new, but has increased attention after the Kosovo war. Like the question of depleted uranium, the use of class bombs was first denied and then confirmed by NATO teams during the conflict. NATO is responsible for the release of group bombs with 290 000 sub-bombs in Kosovo. It is estimated that between 30000 and 50000 have not been detonated. It is estimated that these have hurt about as many people as the Serbian mines in the last few years. The problems surrounding class bombs are exactly the same as for landmines. Such weapons strike civilians and cause the war against civilians to continue long after the military have withdrawn, and peace has been ended. Class bombs are bombs with a quantity of sub-bombs that spread over large areas after launching. An error rate of between 5 and 15 causes a large number of small unexploded bombs to spread over the terrain. These bombs explode very easily in contact. Children are particularly vulnerable to injury. They're curious and don't know what to look for. In other words, unexposed class bombs behave in the same way as anti-personnel mines. Norway was in the brink of the International Convention against Landmines, which was an important step for better protection of civilians in war. Since the issue of class bombs is so similar to the mine problem, it is natural that Norway follows up and works for agreements against this weapon as well. SV expects the Government to support the work in which Red Cross is now among the driving forces, in order to get a ban on class bombs. SV also hopes that a majority here today will support our proposal that Norway take an active part in the fight against these weapons. Disarmament and the abolition of nuclear weapons is another issue where, in the view of the SV, it is important that Norway is consistent with the United Nations and the forums of the Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference and NATO contexts. In this context, it is alarming that NATO is holding on to the first use of nuclear weapons as a military option so long after the end of the Cold War. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's view on what Norway can do to change NATO's nuclear strategy. That the Cold War is over, should also indicate that you are not going in to strengthen NATO at the expense of relations with Russia. Russia must now be included in cooperation on security and stability. To the extent that NATO can be the framework for cooperation with Russia, it is positive. However, if the extension of NATO contributes to new barriers to Russia, it is very unfortunate, and therefore SV is very critical of the forthcoming extension of NATO. Stability and peace cannot be built by upgrading, but by cooperation, democratic construction and economic cohesion. Unfortunately, many people seem to have a hard time realizing this, not least the U.S. with their missile defense plans. If the United States were to put the unlimited number of billions of dollars that the United States is now going to spend on missile defence, into peace-building and conflict prevention measures, the effect would be guaranteed to be positive. To put it mildly, we can't say that about the missile defense plans. In the case of these, SV believes that it is too early to assume that this is a lost case, and that the United States has completed its decision. On the contrary, it is well now that this debate has really begun, and Norway must take part in that debate with a critical voice. It is regrettable that Norway did not use the occasion at yesterday's summit in this way to say clearly that we are critical of the missile defence plans. Finally, I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1253	The representative, Mr Rangtvedt, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1256	First a few words about Macedonia. As Siri Frost Sterri pointed out, there is a very tense and serious situation there. I would like to point out – when considering what to do, including the possible use of military intervention – that there is an important difference between this and the other crises we have faced in the Balkans, for example. the one we had in Bosnia and the one we've had and still have in Kosovo. It is that in Macedonia, after all, there is a chosen government, which has the aim of keeping the country together, and which is also a kind of assembly, even though it is weak. I say this because on the one hand the task must be to support this government, but at the same time exert pressure on it, so that it meets the Albanians, so that you can create a situation where the two peoples can continue to keep the country together. This is an incredibly difficult problem. But until you see anything else, I think that the right policy is just to try a double strategy – both to support the government and to get it into a dialogue with the Albanian minority, which is, incidentally, a very large minority in Macedonia. I just want to say briefly: what has been the overall objective of NATO – from Bosnia to Kosovo and now in Macedonia? Well, that's fighting for multiethnic societies. The starting point has always been that any attempt to move new borders, to divide the Balkans by ethnic groupings, would fail, simply because all this is woven into each other, and it would create total chaos if a policy were to be implemented along such lines. That's what we have to hold on to in Macedonia too, that's to fight for a multiethnic society. If that idea falls, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to implement it in Kosovo, and of course it will be equally difficult to implement it in Bosnia – and we will start all over again. That makes me say the following: what is the new security policy threat, and as the 1990s showed us, is that when the cold war disappeared, a new threat arose, which can be described as a form of irrationality, marked by ethnic violence, terrorism, i.e. not a massive threat from an external enemy targeting NATO, but much of what we see in the Balkans today, and also represented by irrational regimes outside NATO's traditional territory. That is the security policy threat that we have been able to face, and that we must be able to face further in the decade in which we are now in. As far as Europe is concerned, it has been demonstrated in the last six months, in my view, that a new pattern is emerging, namely that of the EU and NATO going hand in hand, and that the EU and NATO, on each side, are preparing for further enlargement. The EU is expanding the welfare zone of which we have been a part to cover larger parts of Europe. NATO is expanding the security zone of which we have been a part to cover increasingly larger parts of Europe. These two things go hand in hand. It is clearly seen in Macedonia, where it is just the EU and NATO that are now practically going hand in hand, by the fact that Solana and Robertson are going back to Macedonia today to establish negotiations between the two groups in the country. This is what Norway has to deal with in the coming years. It is true that we are getting satisfactory formal structures for participation in this, given that we are not in the EU, but we are not getting decisive participation and influence. I'm clearly of the opinion that we're going to notice that we're not fully involved. It will pose an enormous challenge for Norwegian foreign policy to ensure that Norway has influence and participation in this. It says itself. I believe that almost every day in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now can notice just this, that there are these two pillars we have to deal with, and that it is not as simple as saying that this is being solved through the formal structures that are about to be established, because we have to deal with a reality where we are not in one of the two organisations that are now running in twospan in Europe. I don't know if I'm going to help Johan J. Jakobsen make another post on this pulpit, but he said that Turkey could probably have paved the way for a solution that Norway could also benefit from. I'll say it another way. If Norway had not taken the position we have taken, we could have contributed to NATO's participation in the ESDP being blocked. We have from the very first moment said that would not be in Norwegian interest. It is possible that it would have been in Turkey's interest, but not in Norwegian interest. Because if we had done that, and we had run in a two-pan with Turkey that way, we would have been able to get this blockage. So what could we have achieved? Indeed, the EU had begun to build its own structure on the side of NATO. At that time, Norway’s situation had been absolutely much worse than the situation we now have. Because then we had two parallel structures, and in one Norway had not been there at all. After all, we have now achieved cooperation between NATO and the EU that ensures a certain degree of influence. And that has been our role. So maybe you could say that this two-part division, or these two different roles that Turkey and Norway have played, has given us a maximum result. But at least it wouldn't have given us any good results if we had put ourselves on the line that Turkey had from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1275	I asked a specific question to the Foreign Minister whether he could comment on how Norway can work to change NATO's nuclear strategy, so that NATO should say that the first use of nuclear weapons is no longer a military option. I would very much like an answer to that. I would also like to have the Foreign Minister’s comment on the SV’s proposal that Norway take an active part in the fight to get a ban on today’s class bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1280	The first question I believe has been answered repeatedly here in Stortinget. Firstly, the Washington Declaration clearly states the direction to be taken, and secondly, Norway has been actively engaged in arms control and disarmament, particularly at the last NPT conference in New York. And that's within the frame you can go in the direction that SV wants. It's a clear majority for here in Stortinget, and I feel like that's the only realistic way to move in this terrain. When it comes to the question of class bombs, it's been up to us in NATO, and of course we're all interested in being able to go in the direction of getting weapons that are the least inhumane possible. I'm not exactly a big-time representative right now, but if I were to pick something, it might be right to have those proposals sent, so that you can include it in the ongoing assessment that is within NATO, and the view that Norway is going to have there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1288	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3940]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1303	In case rapporteur Einar Steensnæs' absence, I should just say a few words about this setting of the OSCE cooperation in the year 2000. Let me first, regardless of this particular annual report, say that, in my opinion, what was previously called the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe is now the organisation, because it was permanent, played a historically important role in the transformation of Europe. It was the only organisation and forum that was pan-European at the moment the Iron Curtain fell and the revolution rolled through Eastern and Central Europe. Thus, when the CSSE, now the OSCE, became a meeting place for the established democracies in the West and the new, sped up democracies in the East. I believe history will show that the importance of one having this meeting place and that it contributed to stabilising democratisation in Eastern and Central Europe was of great importance to the Europe that is now evolving. Secondly, I would like to stress that the OSCE, as it is also evident from today's attitude, also plays an important role today in a wide range of areas. The OSCE has three dimensions of cooperation, the political-military, the economic and environmental dimension and the so-called human dimension. In all these three areas, to a greater or lesser extent, the OSCE helps to weave the European countries, and then across Europe, ever closer together. We should not underestimate that significance. It is with and complements other European organisations that we have discussed this evening in the past, both NATO and the Council of Europe, and it also has close cooperation with the United Nations. Of major importance for the previous year, which is the message we are discussing today, I would like to mention in particular that in 2000 an agreement was reached on a politically binding document on small arms and light weapons, which I believe may affect the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade of Arms to be held next month. As you know, the OSCE has played and continues to play a significant role in contributing to conflict resolution and stabilising the situation in the Balkans. In particular, the OSCE is important in a leadership role in the work on human rights, in the building of democracy and in the implementation of rule of law, including here in a crucial cooperation with other organisations. Finally, let me mention the great challenge it was for Norway to have the leadership of this organisation in 1999. As Prime Minister of the then government, I got to follow that work relatively closely. It was a very challenge for the entire Norwegian government, and of course for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for the Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time. We believe to record that the work that was done there may be familiar with Norway and that we were in a way put on the European and international agenda. I also believe that we contributed to the OSCE having its position on the international agenda. It may also be worth noting in connection with an annual report that is otherwise relatively out of date, and where the setting can be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1324	This summer, when I take part for the eighth and last time in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I will be among those who have the longest seniority in that Assembly, and hence the longest observation time. And I've seen a very positive development in these years in terms of both democratic development, training and contact and cooperation between representatives of new and older democracies. I would like to emphasise the importance of this contact between parliamentarians. The OSCE is not just an agency for governments, but it is worth remembering that today's parliamentarians can also be the members of tomorrow's government – and vice versa for that matter. The OSSE's lack of activity is also important for parliamentarians. It is especially electoral observation that has been a traditional activity, and that type of activity should go both ways so that the representatives of the new democracies also got to observe elections under more established conditions. The mission of the OSCE should also be given more attention by parliamentarians, by allowing them to see the activities that are carried out in many countries with different conditions and different activities. My conclusion, then, is that the OSCE is an important body also for parliamentarians and that the activity of the OSCE parliamentarians should be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1336	I would like to stress briefly in the extension of the post to Kjell Magne Bondevik the significant role played by the Norwegian Presidency in the OSCE. As members of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the OSCE, we have noticed how it helped to maintain a Nordic dimension in pan-European cooperation. Otherwise, I would first of all like to stress the democratic construction of the OSCE. I have enjoyed participating in election observations in a number of countries, not least in the Balkans, and have seen the significance of a parliamentary function. I also want to underline how the OSCE has managed to deal with the difficult situation that arose in connection with the Austrian Presidency. It was solved in a good way. The situation with Yugoslavia has also been resolved in such a way that we have recently again been able to wish Yugoslavia back as a member of the European family. Otherwise, I think it is important to underline what the recent announcement indicates, that the OSCE has the function of complementing the work in the EU and NATO, and that the Communication underlines in a clear way that the OSCE should keep its ambitions at that level and to the functions you have today. I want to say that the United Kingdom in particular has played a very active role in that process, and has made sure to keep the OSCE budgets at a level that allows the organisation to play the role it plays, but also not to undertake new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1347	A prominent human rights organisation in Moscow recently issued a warning that the genocide in Chechnya is about to be completed. What's happened there in the last six and a half years is far on the way to the worst genocide in recent times, at least I don't know anything that's been worse, and the details there -- I might want to mention something of this in order to wake people up, but should not be -- are so shocking that one has to go back to the worst thing that happened in the last century to find something similar to this. The world's reaction to this, in relation to the world's reaction to what has happened in the Balkans, testifies to a terrible double standard. We're doing good arrests on the butchers in the Balkans, but we're rolling out the red runner for the butcher in Chechnya. This is not possible. It's a matter for the OSCE, and as long as the OSCE doesn't have the strength, doesn't have the courage, doesn't have the power to deal with this, I think it's a poor cut across the organization. I know the Foreign Minister of Bondevik's government tried. Sia has been about completely repositioned about this. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to explain how it might be that one can let this happen in Europe today without one reacting in any way that it is bitten in. And I want to add that one of the worst things about this is that the Russians make the experience that they can do whatever they want, and no one cares. And that at least leads to one having to assume that they're just going forward in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3941]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1368	Over the past six months, Stortinget has dealt with several major telecoms. I am thinking in particular of the reduction in the state's ownership of Telenor and the organisation of third-generation mobile telephony in Norway, UMTS. Common to the discussion about these issues has been that modern telecommunications are increasingly integrated into our society, and that this technology is in practice our major communication channel. These developments have made us very vulnerable to conditions that could interfere with or impede the traffic in the telecommunications network. Therefore, ensuring the operation of the telecommunications network in all circumstances becomes very important in terms of overall defence. It goes without saying that this is demanding. Complexity is high in a telecommunications market in free competition, which many operators operate. The telecommunications network is also characterised by an increasing technological advance and a strong growth in traffic. In St.meld. No 47, on the security of telecommunications and the preparedness of telecommunications in a free and competitive telecommunications market, both challenges and instruments related thereto are discussed in a very thorough manner. As indicated in the notification, this safety work for the telecommunications networks will be demanding. This is due, inter alia, to: the Internet makes it possible to introduce a wide range of new services, services we do not have today. In the traditional telecommunications network, similar possibilities are not technically provided. Developments are most likely to give the Internet a growing role as a communication channel for a number of services, which in certain situations will be crucial for maintaining societal functions. This suggests that for reasons of risk and vulnerability, society needs to increase the robustness of the Internet against serious technical errors, physical sabotage and not least so-called logical attacks by countries or organisations with access to intelligence, knowledge and technology. Consequently, in the future, specific safeguards for the Internet may need to be put in place in line with what we are doing today for other parts of the telecommunications sector. Post and telecommunications surveillance must therefore monitor developments in the use of the Internet and continuously assess the need for safety measures. In summary, threats to the operation of telecommunications networks are either physical impacts on technical equipment and infrastructure, or in so-called logical attacks. This is because, by means of partly advanced technical equipment, traffic in the telecommunications networks is disrupted or disrupted. With regard to the threat of physical attack or destructive electromagnetic radiation, only a guard can guard against this by placing vital telecommunications equipment in mountain installations. Telenor has ten such facilities today, and the so-called TIFKOM project proposes that the State take over these facilities and that five new ones be built. The proposal has a cost framework of SEK 1.9 billion. Only to a small extent will such locating in mountain installations provide protection against so-called logical attacks. However, the Ministry of Transport considers that the scale of co-location in mountain installations outlined by the TIFKOM project is too large and too resource-intensive in relation to the expected benefits of such a measure. This vision puts a collective committee behind it. I will note that St.meld. No 47 is of a very technical nature. As a result, the communication contains a number of terms, both Norwegian and foreign, which may appear to some of us to be little known. It is therefore important that the Ministry in the form of such a text seeks to explain these expressions in an easily understandable way. The Ministry of Transport has done so in this big message, and I will give the Department credit for that. On page 18 of the message: ‘The development of weapon technology is moving towards high precision and high penetration distance weapons. That is to say, in a simplified way, one hits it with a view to...» As rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, I am pleased that any doubts that have previously prevailed around the understanding of this point are now effectively fading aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1392	The vast majority of social sectors currently rely on telecommunications to function properly. This also means that falling away from telecommunications can have major consequences for society. The Government has as its clear objective the promotion of Norway in terms of the use and development of telecommunications and IT. As we rely on the new technology, it will become all the more important with a secure and robust telecommunications network that can withstand threats throughout the challenge spectrum from peace to war. The liberalisation of the telecommunications sector has resulted in a telecommunications market with several providers of both infrastructure and services. At the same time, these developments have meant that telecommunications cannot be maintained in the same way as under the telecommunications monopoly. Until now, only Telenor has been required by concession to provide telecommunications emergency services to society. As other operators also provide telecommunications services to societal actors, it would be natural for these operators to also be subject to emergency obligations. In St.meld. No 47 outlines a new telecommunications security and preparedness strategy adapted to a telecommunications market in free competition. The new strategy will cover all socially important telecommunications operators. I would like to stress that the proposed strategy is the result of a very thorough and comprehensive effort to identify vulnerabilities in public telecommunications networks, including the assessment of measures necessary to increase the robustness of the telecommunications networks. There has been close cooperation throughout the process both with telecommunications operators and with other relevant authorities. The Government proposes, in the main message, that postal and telecommunications supervision should be given a specific authority responsibility for telecommunications security and preparedness. This is a necessary organisational measure that will be very important in order for us to have a robust and secure telecommunications network in Norway in the future. This will integrate security and preparedness work into the other administration of the telecommunications sector, and facilitate security and preparedness on the agenda already in the planning of new networks and services. The Government proposes in the Communication that a new priority system be set up in the telecommunications networks as soon as possible to ensure that users with the greatest needs have access to telecommunications connections in network congestion situations. A new priority mechanism is assumed to be implemented in both fixed and mobile networks, and there will be a clear improvement in relation to the old priority scheme, VPT, which was closed from the turn of the year 2000/2001. Another element of the Government’s emergency strategy is to ensure cooperation between telecommunications operators to ensure that there are loopholes between different operators’ telecommunications networks. By establishing interconnection points between operators’ networks, it will be possible to route telecommunications traffic beyond the point of damage via another operator’s network in the event of failure of one network. In this way, we will reduce the possibility of situations similar to those we had in Kristiansand last year, where Telenor’s telecommunications traffic in the region — including the emergency services — was paralyzed when a telecommunications cable was cut over during digging. Internet use has increased significantly in recent years, and it is likely that the Internet will subsequently also provide some of the societally critical services provided by traditional telecommunications networks today. If this happens, there will be a need to implement specific safeguards for the Internet similar to what is currently being done in the telecommunications sector. The main message provides examples of areas where intervention may be appropriate for a state regulator. The task of postal and telecommunications surveillance will therefore be to monitor developments in the use of the Internet and to continuously assess the need to implement security and preparedness measures. The notification submitted provides clear guidance on how the work on telecommunications security and preparedness will be followed up in the years ahead. It is important that we are able to take preventive action in time. A robust and secure high-functioning telecommunications network will in fact, directly or indirectly, be the basis for much of the value creation taking place in the country. I am pleased that the Committee endorses the communication's strategy and actions. Security and preparedness measures will require resources, and of course a key issue is how to finance the new strategy. The Communication points out that the choice of funding will depend on the concrete actions involved. I interpret the position of the Committee so that the Storting agrees with the measures included in the strategy proposed by the Government, including: to enable the necessary funds to be made available for priority purposes. A systematic and committed follow-up to the content of the State communication will undoubtedly mean a great deal to establish a positive attitude among operators and other actors to self-action and investment in security and preparedness measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3941]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1432	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1441	It's two years since the Stortinget had the previous and first ownership message in the new NSB BA for treatment. The purpose of these two-year owner reports is to recall the overall objectives of the country’s ownership of the traffic company NSB. The day-to-day operation and day-to-day responsibility of the NSB is much greater than previously entrusted to the NSB Board and to the Ministry exercising the ownership of the State of the traffic company. Therefore, Stortingen’s responsibility is to address the general principles and overall objectives of the NSB. The overall objective, at least as I see it, for the state's ownership of the NSB is that one wants a) to carry as much goods as possible on the railway and b) a wants to carry as many passengers as possible on the railway. Then the responsibility will be to develop a policy that will enable one to achieve the objectives that I believe the vast majority of the parties in the Stortinget have defined in their party programmes. I'm glad that there's a large majority in the Storting to continue the state ownership of the NSB. I do not know how many times during the four years I have been in this assembly, we have suggested that the state should sell out of the NSB and/or that the company should be privatised. And I stress: I'm glad that there's a large majority to continue the state's ownership of the NSB. But at the same time it presents us with a responsibility, that we use ownership to achieve the goal I talked about in the city: the most possible transport on the railway. Many participate almost daily in almost a Norway championship in rail sector poverty description in Norway. Fortunately, I'm not registered in that championship. There has been an enormous amount of positive in the Norwegian railway in the 1990s. In the 1990s, we saw a large increase in both passenger and freight traffic. It is also part of an image that some people try to describe as black. But when that is said, it is bad that the positive trend of the 1990s was reversed last year. Last year we experienced for the first time in many years that both passenger and freight traffic went down. It's a development that we have to turn around. The Committee unanimously stresses the need to reverse developments. One has to come back to the offensive if one is to achieve the objective of increasing traffic on both freight and passenger transport. There is a great deal of consensus in the Stortinget about separating NSB Goods into a separate company. There is some disagreement as to the proportion of the NSB’s ownership in the new company. The majority have stated that it is correct for the NSB to have at least 50 pst. in the new freight company. It is also a majority – and I am very pleased – that the Flytrain should be part of the NSB group. I see it as extremely important that the Fly train as a company in the future is under its umbrella under the NSB, that it remains part of the NSB group. But it is stated by the majority – just as it was when we had the organisation of the Gardermoban for a year ago – that the Flytrain should have a great degree of freedom and independence. As I said, this is the same thing as we said for quite exactly one year ago. And the majority assume that what one said last year, that one should come back to this spring 2002, is still at hand. But still what was said for a year ago, the Fly train is going to be part of the NSB group, with a great deal of freedom and independence. The economic situation of the NSB is worrying today. It would be wrong to say something else. I have noticed that both the NSB's board, in its so-called §10 plan, and the department underlines the weak equity share of the NSB that the company now has. When NSB BA was established in 1996, the objective was that there should be an equity share of 40 pst. At the end of the year, the proportion was about 30 pst. According to the year’s budget — if nothing is done — an equity share of 25 p.m. It is serious, because this is the limit that banks have set as a condition for the loans that NSB has taken up in the private lending market, and that has become a pretty big loan since then. The majority therefore believe it is right that equity should be increased by SEK 2.1 billion, and I am pleased that the majority now tonight – or perhaps we will soon say night – cancels its loan to the government of the same amount, i.e. NOK 2.1 billion. But this is just one measure. Tonight, the Stortinget makes a big and important move, but also the NSB as a company has a great job to do to achieve the goals that are now outlined. Significant efficiency measures need to be taken. A good part of properties shall also be sold, which the NSB defines as ‘operational non-residential properties’, i.e.: properties not needed by the NSB for day-to-day train operation, in order to say this simplified. But I – and a unanimous committee – will clarify: Property owned by the NSB, which has been used for free parking spaces associated with railway stations, must be secured to free parking spaces in the future. Parking spaces associated with the stations are essential for people to take the train and for us to achieve the objective of more transport on the rail. It would be unfortunate if we got into the situation that properties, parking lots, sold out for commercial purposes, and people no longer have anywhere to put off their car. It underlines the clarification made by the Storting regarding the sale of property. So there's a significant amount of debt that the state is deleting. Now the board of directors and management of the NSB must do a large part of the job, and I wish them happiness in the important work that remains. In addition, even though it belongs to the next case, I would like to remember that the bulk of the population is going to increase the annual purchase of services by over 200 million. kr. Both parts are important steps to get the NSB – we'll say – on the track again, literally. The numbers we saw last year about passenger development, we're going to turn around. The year 2000 was a sad year for the railways in Norway. Let's hope we don't get one of those years again. I am pleased that this is a large majority in favour of increasing rail freight and passenger transport. Then we also have to facilitate this, so that the objectives become something other than fine formulations in batch programmes. I'm quite convinced that what we're doing tonight – or at least all of the sun tags that we're going to do – is a big contribution in the right direction to achieve the goals we're sketching, and to get the NSB as a company to function and be able to do the job that political authorities want them to do. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1469	There's always a train running. However, the last year has been a long time between each time we have heard something positive about the situation for Norwegian railway or for NSB. Since the previous NSB notification, the problems have been in line: serious accidents, problems with trainsets that do not tolerate the speed they should be able to cope with, and drivers who suddenly should be on vacation. This ownership message should have addressed the challenges for Norwegian railways and for NSB. It doesn't do it enough. We who are happy in the railway, had expected something more, e.g. that the Ministry had given a more thorough assessment of the challenges identified in the business plan by the NSB Board. The message addresses many questions, but many of them leave unanswered. The communication and the Governing Board’s business plan focus on economic challenges. It is important that the company cut costs, streamline and operate rationally, but the overall impression one gets after reading both the Government's notification and the Board's business plan is that one has forgotten something of the most important thing for customers, namely the service and quality of the offer. I miss that NSB focuses on service to customers, service in the sense of better information, cleanliness, something to bite on the train and things like that, which means a lot to the overall impression. What do we want with the NSB? What is our objective for the company? And what is the government's goal for the NSB? The Ministry points out that the company should give the State maximum value over time, that it should meet regulatory objectives, that it should exploit synergies in being a broad group and that the company should be an attractive job of skilled and service-provided workers. These objectives could have been set by any owner. In addition, there is a point that the NSB should ensure public-friendly and traffic-proof passenger train equipment adapted to the Norwegian infrastructure. This is the nearest one that comes with a political justification for state ownership. Christian People's Party wants something more. We want to continue state ownership in the NSB, precisely because we want something with the company. We want a powerful transport company. We want the NSB to help solve queues and environmental problems around several of the largest cities. We will give Norwegian railways and NSB an important role so that Norway can become a leading country in environmentally friendly transport. Therefore, we will make new demands for the company, and therefore we will provide the company with better framework conditions. The NSB is in a very difficult economic situation, as we have just heard, and here it is a lot of work to do for the company. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is necessary to strengthen the company's equity situation, and joins the Government's proposal for funding. This means that we're strengthening equity by NOK 2.1 billion, so that the company can pay down similar debts to the government. The message also states that the NSB will subsequently save 300 million. kr annually on efficiency improvement. The Christian People's Party agrees that one should operate effectively, but we still want to warn against measures that go beyond the service offered to the customers. The Government proposes in the notice that NSB Gods can be distinguished in its own company. It is added that the NSB shall remain a majority shareholder. The Christian People's Party agrees that this makes sense. According to the Ministry of Transport’s assessment, a strong freight operator in Norway is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of transferring freight from road to road. I want to take a little example from a newspaper that came out last week, where it says that the NSB failed, and 100 trailers took over. In addition, it says: «NSB-Goods Sorry We simply don't have the capacity to drive the Russian timber all the way to Otta. Right now we have too few cars to carry all the timber." Is this the way to achieve the objective that we are just hearing from the ministry and from all of us? The separation of NSB goods will have consequences for the company’s net VAT burden. We believe that the Board's proposal on zero VAT for trains deserves a more thorough assessment. When we discussed the future organisation of the Fly train a year ago, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party agreed on a number of important points. We decided that the Aerodrome should have a high degree of freedom and autonomy in line with the Innst comments. S. No 237 for 1999-2000. There is something about the placing on the market of the air train as a stand-alone offer, that the air train is free with regard to the choice of suppliers and is not required to participate in group contracts that do not serve the air train, and that any use of the air train by NSB in the marketing of the NSB must be made in agreement with the air train. We also said something about securing external, professional competence on the board of the flight train. The government has created some uncertainty about this in a St.melding wording. No 48, stating that the decision to grant the Fly train a high degree of freedom and autonomy cannot, in the view of the Ministry, result in the fact that the Board of Directors of the Group does not effectively control the exploitation of the synergies. What we wrote in the comments a year ago was absolutely crucial that we did not already separate the Flytrain as our own company. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Parties, stresses that what we said last year is still on the ground, and that today, through the decision, we also have to establish this. I hope that the Council of State will confirm in its statement that he will ensure that this is followed up. The Christian People's Party has joined the demand for returns as proposed by the Government. However, I would like to stress that for us, the return is measured in dollars and cents far from the main measure of state ownership in the NSB. For us, it's more important that trains go when they're going, that those who take the train are satisfied, and that we get more people to choose trains instead of private cars. The most important thing for the NSB now is to restore confidence to the public so that the negative traffic trend can be reversed. It is important to ensure the train as a significant means of transport, even where it is not economically viable. A stable state ownership can help ensure this, and I'm glad that a majority agrees here. Today it is through public purchases of services that we secure the offer of trains on routes that cannot be operated on a commercial basis. This year’s appropriations are the subject of the next case, but the form of the agreement between the State and the NSB is an important part of the NSB’s framework conditions. The form of the agreement is therefore an important theme of the Governing Board’s work plan. Therefore, I am disappointed that neither the Government nor the Workers' Party have been interested in discussing important aspects of this agreement in the context of the NSB notification. As far as I know, the framework agreement between the NSB and the state has remained virtually unchanged since 1990. In 1990 the Railway Agency did not exist – it existed, but not in its present form – the NSB was responsible for both trains and infrastructure, and now it is time to change the contract form. I am pleased that a majority agree that purchase contracts for transport services must contain provisions that reduce the state compensation when the carrier does not comply with the contract requirements, for example. in relation to frequency or punctuality. I am also pleased that a majority agree that we should not burden the NSB when there is a relationship in which the carrier does not have any influence, which is a cause for breach of the contractual requirements. A majority agree that quality contracts have many elements that can be transferred to the state purchase of passenger services by train, and I am surprised that the Workers' Party has not been willing to enter into this debate. If you want something about the company, you have to use the tools available, and if you want a better train offer, the scope and form of government purchase is the most essential. In the business plan, the board points to two issues in the purchase agreement. The short-term nature of the agreement does not safeguard the risk posed by the NSB to investments in train equipment. The agreement does not provide sufficient incentives for the conversion, efficiency and development of better market solutions. The Christian People's Party agrees with NSB's objections to the agreement. There is an investment in train equipment to be used for several decades – at least if the axles are holding. The Christian People's Party believes the next framework agreement must have a longer time horizon than four years. We also believe that the NSB must be given the opportunity to retain more of the efficiency gain from year to year. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the agreement provides incentives to increase the train's offer. Our goal is to provide the most opportunity to choose trains, especially in areas where there are major problems with the environment and the environment on the roads. If the NSB is able to carry more than one entry, e.g.: Oslo in drug traffic every morning, the agreement must provide the NSB with an economic incentive to increase the offer. The infrastructure provided by the NSB is the NSB’s main framework condition. Everyone knows that many of the NSB's problems with delays are due to infrastructure failure. It's not the responsibility of the NSB, it's the responsibility of the Railway Agency. In the business plan, the NSB Board points to weaknesses with today’s track access agreement. The main point is that the financial responsibility must lie with those who have the opportunity to influence the situation and that it is the best way to ensure incentives for improvement. The Christian People's Party agrees with the NSB regime in this. A track access agreement must place the responsibility where it belongs, define the railway works’ obligations and include financial liability in the event of a breach of obligations, such as NSB should be held financially liable if they do not deliver under the contract of purchase. The Christian People's Party is not satisfied with the results of the cooperation between the NSB and the Railway Agency so far, but perhaps a better and more committed track access agreement can provide the basis for better and more professional cooperation, just for the benefit of the railway we're all concerned about working on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1533	NSB's problems have become more than obvious during the year we're behind. St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001 provides a description of both the situation and the challenges that I perceive seriously. I'm actually glad that the message is sober and openly points to the challenges ahead of us. I think we have a pretty good starting point and a prerequisite for doing what is necessary in the future to get that railway system in Norway that we all want. That has not always been the case. Very often, the debates in Stortinget on NSB and rail operations have been marked by a lack of ability to address the problems that NSB has had over time, a paralysis of action that has largely had one single reason: rail is good. The right has several times found it necessary to warn the majority against what I would call an uncritical attitude. It has been largely a speech for deaf ears. But for that very reason, it might be of interest to take a little look back at the issues associated with the NSB and the Railway Agency during the years we now have behind us, this to show that much of what has been done, just should have been done so much, much before. Let me do a couple of examples. It is the case that the right as early as 1994 we proposed, for example: would sell the Travel Agency Division, we have proposed to sell the shares in Narvesen, we have proposed an AS model for the NSB, and we have also proposed that the Goods Division should be separated – we have had a wide range of proposals. And the strange thing is that all of this in its time has been followed up by different governments, with the exception of the AS model for the NSB. It became known as a special law company, but so late, so late. The right has pointed out that competition on the track is a good thing and should be a good thing for all of us. We have pointed out the need for a freer position, for example, for NSB Goods, in order for them to have freer hands to enter into alliances with others, which right-wing thought and thought would make NSB Gods far more competitive than it has been. It now opens for it, but, asking a signed and right, many years too late. Right wants to give the Government the necessary powers to sell itself into the NSB Goods. If it turns out that someone gets hold of an interesting partner who can really mean something, you should have that opportunity. The majority says no. I can't understand why you can't give the government that authority. They can only use it if they want to. If they don't want to use it, they can't. In fact, in the future it may just turn out to be a hindrance to rail transport in our country. I have to say that someone has lived – and lives – really up to a saying that goes like this: Whoever just wants to wait and see, just see the possibilities that one went missing. It is also the case that changes proposed by the NSB itself have in fact been countered in the Stortinget. In this way I go back to 1994 and budget-inner. S. No 14 for 1994-95. The comments of the Right regarding the Solørbahn stated: ‘These members refer with amazement to the Ministry’s own information that the Solørbahn has been operated with 4-5 passengers per. Train’.» Actually, there were some people who thought the NSB was going to do it. It'll be expensive – and it was expensive. Another example is the famous reconciliation between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party in connection with the transformation of the NSB into a special law company. Both asphalt on the highways and at night on the Raumaban had to be used to get the Workers ’ Party through that decision. That it has cost resources that we could use in another way, everyone must understand! But one must also criticise the quality of the calculations that have been taken into account too much of what we at Stortinget have decided. I remember that the argument for betting on heel trains was an increase in the NSB's performance and thus a less need for government purchases of services. And today, as the rapporteur said correctly, we're adding up to 250 million on the purchase. kr. We support that in the Right, it's just absolutely necessary to do that, in order to correct and try to have an offer to people they want to enjoy and benefit from. It must also be possible when we make these purchase agreements in the future – and I expect everyone to agree – to get calculation models that provide us with the necessary improvement in quality, service and efficiency. We have to prove that we get something left for this money – easy and easy. We on the Right want to spend more money, but then we also need to know that we get more services left for it, and also know that this is an effective service. It may also be that the ability to learn from one’s own mistakes has also been – perhaps one may say – worse than one might hope. In St. prp. No 1 for 1996-97 reads as follows: ‘The first new Di 6 diesel locomotives were scheduled to be delivered in mid-August 1996. However, tests carried out show that the track forces of the locomotives exceed the requirements of the NSB, which will result in considerable wear on wheels and rails.» It seems to me that since then I have also received this kind of information about newly purchased material in the NSB. It must be allowed to ask whether the follow-up procedures have been good enough and/or whether the quality control has been the way it should be. At least it has to be allowed to doubt it a little bit. This gap between assumptions and results has led us into the situation described in St.meld. No 48: ‘By the end of 2001, the accumulated gap between actual and planned developments has been estimated at over 2 billion. kr. It is primarily on the revenue side that the results have not been obtained.» There'll be bills of this! It was often claimed that there has been little money on the railways in Norway in recent years, so I have had some fun looking at what we have spent on money related to the railway. In 1994, there was a debt cancellation in the NSB of NOK 2.2 billion. In connection with the Special Law Reform, we added – if I have counted correctly – NOK 1.5 billion. Today we am depreciating a further SEK 2.1 billion. The total is approx. $5.5 billion. So in addition, we have depreciations on the Gardermoban at approx. 7 billion kroner. So over the last seven years, we've written down $13 billion. That's a lot of money! I am not saying that you should not have used this money, but you must be allowed to ask if we have got as much back as we might have hoped. In the future, we believe that the NSB should concentrate much more on getting trains to come and go at the right time – simply making today’s systems work. This should be a priority far ahead of new projects! We simply need a fresh report of today's systems in the NSB. In addition, the Right believes that it would be an advantage to concentrate on driving trains – and trains alone. There's probably a lot of other fun to do, but I think maybe you should leave it to others who might be more competent in that area, and then let the NSB concentrate on driving trains. The right considers that the NSB must also be given full freedom to purchase services and exploit all the competition in the market with regard to products and services – in full. The right has long wanted to open up competition on the track, including in the case of passenger traffic. The right-hand side records that there is no majority for it. But even though the majority believe it, I hope at last that the majority can agree that we need some model, so that we can measure the effectiveness of the NSB. If it's going to be done with a theoretical model e.l., I don't know, but let's get such a model, so we see that we get something left for the money that we put in it all. In the case of the Fly train, the Right again promotes its proposal to give the Government the opportunity to sell the Fly train when they find it appropriate – and again because we also want the Fly train as a measuring system against the NSB. I admit it. It might well be that someone can do this in a different way, and they'll have to do it. If it turns out that once again you've been too optimistic about the possibilities for the NSB, I expect the ministry will come back fairly quickly with the necessary handles. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals that the Right has on the occasion of the matter. And then I'll make it clear that there is an error in the setting on page 12, first column. In the comments of the Committee of the Right and Advance Parties, the following sentence – ‘The Government authorises the Government to privatise the Aerodrome AS as quickly as it becomes economically advantageous’ – shall be added at the end of the quote from the previous setting, Innst. S. No 237 for 1999-2000. As it now appears, it looks like a proposal that stands there. It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1599	It shall be noted. Oddvard Nilsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1604	Accidents and operational problems in 2000 are considered to be the main cause of the traffic decline which has particularly affected NSB’s commercial passenger traffic with a reduction in passenger kilometres of 6.2 pst. NSB BA currently has a monopoly on passenger transport by train, and in 2000 the company received 987 million. kr in the remuneration of the State for the provision of passenger transport services, but still had SEK 87 million. NOK in deficit. On the goods side, the accounts also showed an operating deficit of 321 million. NOK 2000 The Party considers that Norwegian rail tracks should be opened up to competition, including for passenger services, and that the purchase of passenger services by the State should be put on the market. Developments in Europe are now moving towards more actors on the track, and several of the former national railway undertakings have been made more independent from the State, including in particular: through the separation of limited liability companies, etc. In the past, the Progress Party has promoted a Document No. 8 proposals to convert Norway’s State Railways BA, NSB BA, into an ordinary limited liability company, as well as to open up competition at the railway station. Recent developments show that it is now high time to launch the NSB and the Progress Party believes that the Government must now make the necessary measures for the railway system to be made available to other train operators, under the same conditions as those applicable to the NSB. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the economic problems of the NSB should have been addressed at a much earlier stage. The company is now in a situation where there is little time to realise the values it has. It may make it necessary to convert the country’s loans into equity, even if this could have been avoided if problems had been addressed in the past and that the company had previously started selling its assets. This puts the Storting closest to a forced situation. The situation is parallel to the situation The Storting was facing the cancellation of the NSB Gardermobanen AS. The size must cancel the debt otherwise stops the operation. The Progress Party welcomes the proposal that the NSB Goods be separated as a separate share company and that new actors enter the ownership of the company, but disagrees with the Ministry's assumption that the NSB should have more than 50 pst. participation in the new company. At a time when transport solutions are becoming increasingly international, there is a danger that the proposed restriction of ownership could weaken rail freight transport in Norway and undermine the ability of NSB Gods to be competitive. The Progress Party considers that the NSB should sell the Flytrain to private stakeholders, both in view of the need to provide fresh capital to the NSB, and also in view of the need for the NSB to have a competitor in passenger transport by train. The air train must also have the possibility to provide services on routes other than the route currently carried by the air train, if the carrier so wishes, in the same way that the NSB will be able to provide transport services to the Gardermoen. In view of the many safety, accident, delay and deficit problems faced by the NSB, this needs to be resolved before any thought can be given to starting new routes, such as: The Ringerix Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1621	«NSB Gods has a grassroots problem». This can be found in the issue of Transportation No. 4 2001, and it's one of the NSB's big customers that says it. Periodically, delays and missing follow-up from the NSB have caused major problems for customers, who have chosen to run the goods on the road for periods. In the last few years, we've heard a little too many similar stories. I think there are many people who have asked themselves the question of what is the cause of the many problems, the unclosed and accidentally NSB BA and the various divisions in this company have had. Undoubtedly, the many unclosed and unwanted events have weakened NSB's trust and reputation and led to a lack of satisfaction for many of the customers. Yeah, a lot of customers have left the NSB. It is important that the NSB take seriously the work of cleaning up what is not working to get on the offensive. Clients expect service, precise trains and a weekday that is not characterized by constant messages of accident or near-accident. In order to close the NSB in the work to be done, it is also a requirement that the cooperation between NSB BA and the Railway Works should work optimally. The report on the NSB BA's activity, which we are debating today, shows that the annual result, including the NSB Gardermobanen AS, has a deficit for both 1999 and 2000. The economic results of the NSB give cause for concern. It is therefore positive, but absolutely necessary, that the NSB has planned to launch cost-effective measures to improve the annual operating performance. The question is whether this should not have been done a long time ago. When the objective of the company's opening balance sheet was approx. 40 pst. equity component, there is reason to take the situation seriously when the 2001 budget concludes that the equity component will be reduced to approximately approx. 25 pst. This is a very unfortunate situation, and the Central Party realises that the equity component should be strengthened if the company continues to operate. The alternative is too dramatic. The central party is therefore involved in the plurality that supports the proposal to strengthen the ownership capital of the NSB group by approx. NOK 2.1 billion in the case of a conversion of the State's loans to the corresponding amount into equity. The NSA’s financial situation needs to be taken seriously. The board of directors and the board of directors of the NSB have a great responsibility to run the company so that Stortinget does not get the same cases for years to come. The setting states that the Right and Progress Party will realise NSB values before the conversion of the government’s loan into equity. The values that are proposed are among other things. Railway station, Nettbuss AS and Flytoget AS. The centre party has concluded that property, construction and facilities for which the NSB is no longer used in railway operations and which are not used in parking spaces can be sold. The centre party is in disagreement with the Right and the Progress Party to privatize the Fly train. For approx. a year ago, the Central Party participated in a number that concluded that the Flytog would be organized as a subsidiary, 100 pst. owned by NSB BA and that this organisation should be evaluated after two years. The flight was to have a great deal of freedom within the NSB group. The flight was to include: have external members of the Management Board. The air train should be able to be marketed as an independent offer and make arrangements based on what would be best for the Flytrain. I am therefore responding to the fact that the Government in the big news we are now debating, trying to withdraw the freedom of the big crowd gave the Flytog in Innst. S. No 237 for 1999-2000. The Government has written in St. Meld. No 48, cannot be interpreted except that the government is trying to reverse the development of the bulk of population. It is easy in the message, after the Government has pointed out to the great majority in 2000, that ‘this cannot, in the light of the Ministry of Transport’s assessment, mean that the Board of Directors of the Group does not have effective control over the matter in practice. exploitation of synergies between the companies within the group’;» In addition, the Ministry states that the Board of Directors of the Group shall respect the ownership of the NSB group and that it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the Group to ensure the optimal operation of the whole group. I want to show that in the setting that we are debating today, a number of people are reiterating during what the plural said in Innst. S. No 237 for 1999-2000 on the freedom and independence of the Fly train. It meant the plural in 2000, and it means the plural today. I suggested that the Government take this seriously and don't put any interpretations into the notes other than what really stands there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1645	In this hall, many people have strong opinions about NSB. There are many warning index fingers, many cry wives, many who put their faces in serious folders and say that now the NSB has to get together. In this room there are many who have beautiful rail objectives, beautiful rail notes are written and there are no limits to how important it is to strengthen rail as a mode of transport, both for freight and passenger transport. It's a goodwill rhetoric. In this room there is no ability to take responsibility for what is our responsibility. It's always the NSB and the Railway Agency that are going to tighten up. Never we. We come in with rescue operations when we have to, cf. the equity-enhancing process. We do not arrange for the railway to become what we agree on: future transport wins. We in SV feel lonely when it comes to the step from comments to concrete actions. Investments in the roadway and security measures will come back to me in the next debate. But the NSB probably has to adjust to running Rolls Royce on the track in the foreseeable future. What does SV do? In the course of the review tomorrow, we propose to introduce a zero VAT deduction rate for VAT. It's calculated to be approx. 140 million. kr in strengthening the NSB’s economy on an annual basis — a good measure. Then I hear here that the Christian People's Party will have this thoroughly evaluated. What is needed is action! In the evening, SV proposes to remove the road tax on the carriage of goods. It implies strengthening the competitiveness of the rail system over road freight. This is important at a time when NSB Gods is building up a part of the freight supply. The investment charge on railway equipment should have been removed several years ago. Why is investment tax payable on railway equipment when it does not occur on vehicle trains or on aeroplanes? Is there any logic, except to punish the railway? Why wait? This has been evaluated for years. It is amazing that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which raise the tabs high in the fight against charges, will not facilitate rail transport charges. What do they write in the setting? Yes: ‘It is not acceptable for the NSB to strengthen its competitiveness by worsening charges and other framework conditions for road transport.’ No, but then you can vote to remove the road charge for the railway. It will not increase the cost of road transport, but it will facilitate them for rail transport. If you signal tonight that you are willing to remove the investment fee on railway equipment immediately, I will submit a proposal in connection with the revised tomorrow morning. But no, on the railway side, the Right and Advance Party are tax collectors. On 16 May, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Labour and Administration, and I had a round of impotent lovers of the NSB. The Minister of Transport believed that there had been problems from the 1960s and 1970s that had persisted until today. True to say, I do not yet see the light in the tunnel. We're strengthening NSB's equity. We do that because we have no choice. We have to! It's a coercive act, no love relationship. Obligation and genuine love are not the same. Had it been a love relationship, the government and the majority of the population had followed up by saying, "Now we're strengthening equity, and then we're giving you the framework conditions for you to become transport masters: We're introducing zero rate on VAT with the right to deduct. We're removing the road fare. We remove the investment tax on materials immediately. So we're modernizing the driveway -- do a real lift. Then the railway had powerful lovers. With regard to this matter of asphalt and night and on the Raumaban, I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee to talk to the Christian People's Party about it in particular. That's not what we in SV negotiated about. So to NSB as a group. I'm very concerned that there should be a group, a transport group. I think this with bus operation is a reasonable combination. But the Right, those who are going to give NSB great freedom, say: No, you shouldn't be allowed to do that! You have to reduce public purchases if you don't meet the requirements. I see that there is a logic in this, but at the same time it is that if now, for example. The NSB has to put in buses because there are things that fail, and are responsible for themselves, we will get a worse offer if they reduce their public purchase. It'll kind of just be a vicious circle, and it'll go down and down. I would like to say something about competition on the track, but I see that the time is running out. I'm afraid chaos can end up on the track. The competition is between the railway and the road. Finally, I would like to say that I think that the bulk of the population has a railway policy that I believe is completely hollow in their heads. And then I don't think the majority has an open mind, rather the opposite. So I'm going to take up the SV proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1701	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1705	It's late evening, but I don't feel like a crying woman. The left has a strong desire for the NSB to be one of the leading players in the Norwegian transport market both before passenger and freight traffic. We would therefore like to strengthen the role of the railway, both through the purchase by the State of passenger transport services, the improvement of infrastructure and the strengthening of the ownership capital of NSB BA. The positive trend NSB was in when we last at Stortinget discussed the NSB's activity, is broken. NSB is facing some challenges to get back on track. The left is willing to join and fix for this, among others. by increasing the effort in relation to the construction of infrastructure. This has also been shown in the management of the national transport plan, where we added 5 billion more to the government's proposal for the next 10 years for investment in infrastructure. We also support proposals for increased rights for the purchase of passenger transport, but we want future agreements to be long-term and to provide incentives, such as: efficiencies and savings can be used to provide customers with a better supply. The agreement must provide incentives to increase supply through e.g.: compensation linked to growth in the number of passengers in the rush time. Quality contracts similar to those we have for bus transport must also be able to be evaluated. A number of events in 2000 have weakened customer confidence in NSB. Conditions of missing maintenance and operation of the infrastructure may be involved and addressed by the Stortinget. But here it is also decisive with close cooperation between the one who keeps the infrastructure, and the one who sews for the transport. In addition, there must be economic incentives in the case of agreements on track access. Of course, these obligations must be reciprocal in relation to costs such as: The railway works are applied due to faults on the part of the carrier. The left believes that improving customer service and information is a major challenge. Today there are actually customers who have problems getting a ticket on the train. The customer in the centre must be the leader in the task of restoring the trust of the NSB. I want to make a clear statement as far as possible so that the Left wants the Flytrain AS to have a large degree of freedom and autonomy. I have registered that the flight train has had less expenditure than budgeted in the year that has passed. If this has something to do with freedom and independence, I cannot say, but it is positive that this has happened. The matter of the organisation of Flytoget AS comes back to Stortinget in the spring of 2002. The left has noticed that the government is asking the state to have a direct ownership of the Flytoge AS already. When Stortinget handled the organisation of the Flytrain in the spring of 2000, the Left assessed whether the Flytrain was to be dissociated, in line with the call of the board of NSB BA now. What our position will be in the spring of 2002, depends on what we think is best for NSB BA and the Flytrain AS. The left is satisfied with the fact that NSB Goods is now being separated as a owned limited liability company. This is in line with the proposal we agreed to address the national transport plan. The left wants more goods on trains. The left wants a strong freight company that develops a product that customers want. If the NSB goods are to be closed in this way, they must be able to form strategic alliances, and the Left does not want to place obstacles that make it less interesting for potential investors to join the company. The left-hand side indicates that the NSB should have less than 50 pst. of the axes of the NSB Gods AS, or we wish to authorise the Government to evaluate this. I'm recording developments in Telenor. I have tried to point out a number of things that the Left wants to participate in in order for NSB BA to be a forward-looking and customer-oriented transport company. The representative Myrvoll was involved with crying wives and investment fees. I want to say that the Left has wanted to remove the investment fee, and the investment fee is actually being removed from next year, and it also benefits the NSB. However, the group must now be closed down with cost-effective measures. The concert must be closed in putting the customer in the focus, and the group must be closed in providing such a good deal and service to the customers that they again have confidence that the train is a good and safe means of arriving. The difference between SV and Left when it comes to NSB vision is that we believe that the group if they get the chance can do this on its own, but they also have to start showing results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1737	The notification is based on the NSB’s 2001–2005 planning document, §10-plan 2001, which follows as printed annexes and is concentrated in the years 2001–2003. As announced in the previous notification of the company's activities, St.meld. No 19 for 1998-99, an external valuation of the NSB group has been carried out in connection with this reporting work. The purpose of the Communication is to provide the Storting with information on developments in the previous planning period and on the NSB’s main challenges, strategies and plans for the coming years as a basis for designing the policy on ownership management of the company. The development of railway infrastructure, the scope and conditions for the purchase by the State of passenger transport services and regulatory conditions are important prerequisites for the operation of the NSB, which were established, inter alia. for the treatment of St. Announcement. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002–2011. In the ownership management of the NSB, I am concerned that the company should: meet regulatory requirements that are proportionate to road safety and commercial contracts, etc., in a cost-effective manner, including the contract with the State for the purchase of passenger transport services; ensure good and traffic-proof passenger train equipment adapted to the Norwegian infrastructure exploit the benefits that may be derived from being a wide-ranging group; be an attractive job with skilled and service staff maximise the country’s value creation over time The government emphasises that train operation still needs to be ensured as an important means of transport in Norway. This applies both in the passenger and freight markets. For an enterprise with a heavy cost structure and with a need for conversion, stable long-term long-term plans and prospects for the development of the enterprise are necessary. It is therefore necessary to maintain the State’s interests in the NSB group. As long as the NSB is the only real player in the market segment of rail passenger transport, the company is the only owner of railway equipment adapted to the Norwegian network. In Ot.prp. No 89 for 2000-2001 the Government has proposed some amendments to the provisions of the Special Law, but they are not submitted to changes in the form of companies. The NSB is within a period of extensive renewal of the passenger train equipment, with investments of nearly DKK 5 billion in new trains delivered between 1999 and 2002. At the time of the formation of a company in 1996, the NSB would achieve an increase in the cash flow from operations through improved market alignment and a high level of efficiency. Although traffic and revenue have increased in the 1990s and costs have been cut, the company has so far not achieved the expected profits. In 2000, for the first time since 1990, the NSB experienced a negative traffic growth, such as: can be explained by the effect of the AST accident and other operational problems which caused poor punctuality and regularity of train traffic. The traffic failure has caused additional loss of income, while the accidents and operating deviations have contributed to increased costs. This has led to a sharp deterioration in the company's economic development, and during the year the equity share is expected to fall to 25 p.p., which is the limit the banks have set as a condition for the loans they have taken up in the private loan market. The board will seek to reverse this negative trend as soon as possible, and will focus strongly on restoring people's confidence in the company. In addition, major changes need to be made to the rest of the organisation, including: by converting and streamlining support functions. This also includes the maintenance workshops of the company. By 2003 the holding shall be streamlined by 300 million. kr. The government is concerned that this process is being carried out in close cooperation with employees’ organisations. Freight traffic is now undergoing major structural changes in Europe. In order to seek the creation of a Scandinavian goods option, the Government supports the Governing Board’s recommendation that the NSB Goods be separated as a separate company and form an alliance with another freight operator, but nevertheless that the NSB continues to hold the majority of its shares. However, under the current charging regime, the VAT burden on passenger traffic, which is a non-taxable activity, will increase as a result of the NSB’s becoming a pure-bred passenger transport company without a taxable credit activity which is deductible. In particular, this would have a negative impact on commercial long-distance traffic. In the opinion, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party point out that they “surprisingly” note that NSB Long-Range is not a profitable commercial activity. In this connection, I would like to refer to the subject in St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, which reads as follows: «Analyses carried out show positive cash flows from the distance trains as long as the current tax regime is maintained.» With the separation of NSB goods, VAT adjustment changes, resulting in negative cash flows from the distance train operation. In order not to impair the competitive situation in the passenger transport sector underpinned by the national transport plan 2002-2011, it is foreseen that the NSB will be provided with the necessary equity to meet future operating losses/depreciation needs of the long-distance operation. The sale of the material and the loss of all long-distance traffic in Norway are out-of-date government policies. In order, inter alia, to: the financing of the new railway equipment that has already been acquired or ordered, the Government provides that the NSB group is to secure an equity share of approximately. 40 pst. at the end of 2005, and this is done by implementing the Board’s efficiency programme, the sale of ROM Property Development AS, i.e. the company's operating assets and the company's contribution capital increased by 2135 million. kr. The increased paid-in capital corresponds to the country’s loans to the company. The assumption of the equity injection is that the government loan will be repaid on 2 December of this year. For the sale of ROM Property Development AS, this must be done in such a way as to maximise the value of the NSB group as a whole. This is of great importance for the target of 40 pst. the equity share in 2005 shall be a realistic objective. Questions related to the areas of Bjørvika are currently being worked on. The subsidiary of the NSB, ROM Property Development, is property owners in the area, and the value of the sale of the company will largely depend on clarifications about the organisation of the Bjørvika project. In the economic plans of the NSB, it is considered that partial sales of ROM could be realised in 2002, inter alia. in order to meet the write-down needs of long-distance services. If the process of organising the Bjørvika project necessitates a postponement of this value implementation, it may be necessary to return to the question of any temporary effects on the company's equity. As regards the majority of the Committee's comments on the NSB's property activities in Narvik, I would like to point out that during the examination of St.prp. No 64 for 1995-96, the NSB was a management company, where specific powers were required to operate different industrial activities. In the reorganisation of the NSB in 1996, the NSB Trafikkdel was established as a special-law company, which entailed a change in governance principles. Because of this reorganisation and in order to continue to comply with the decision of the Storting in the follow-up of St.prp. No 64, commercial agreements were concluded between Narvik Municipality and NSB BA. I'm assuming that the NSB follows up these agreements. In June 2000, the size estimated that the organisational structure of the Flytrain will be reviewed in two years’ time, in the next owner’s notification. The government believes that such a change must be seen in an ‘industrial’ perspective and will come back to the case on this basis, cf. The Committee's recommendation for a decision that the Government submit a case to the Stortinget in the spring of 2002 so that, in line with the Stortingen's decision of 15 June 2000, the Stortingen can decide on the future form of the company's organisation. I have also noted the Committee's comments on the management of the Flytrain. In line with the Act on limited liability companies and the State’s rail transport company, the NSB’s responsibility is to manage the assets of the group, including ensuring that the group is operated in accordance with law and regulation, and that the activities are properly organised. This is in line with the considerations I made during the Stortingen debate a year ago. The comments and proposals for decisions of the majority of the committee are as far as I can see in a similar way to what was said during the last year's discussion of the organisational structure of the flight train. I therefore assume that the ownership of the flight train will continue as it is now, until any changes are adopted as a result of the assessments and proposals that will take place next year. I am pleased that the majority of the committee through this discussion seems to provide the NSB with a sound operational basis. This will give the board of directors, management and employees major challenges, but I trust and assume that they meet these challenges in such a way that confidence can be restored, and that the train can still be a very good transport offer both for people and for goods in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1805	Norway’s state railways have recently experienced a lot of negative attention related to conditions that everyone is well aware of, and there is no doubt that the situation of the NSB has been very difficult. From some political sides, this has been seen as the final proof that the NSB’s corporate form and ownership structure have been laid down and expired, and there is a strong demand that the company either partially or fully acquire private owners. Crucifixion, crucifixion, yelling. This issue is surrounded by considerable political disagreement, but what needs to be in focus is that the NSB is gradually coming on the offensive. In my view, it is set out in the communication and also in the Committee's position. In addition, there is reason to note that positive things also happen in the company. It is reported that more and more people choose the train over other transport options, including on the long distances. In the mid-range and short-range areas, the NSB remains a significant carrier, but in order to facilitate increased traffic growth here, capacity needs to be improved both in the road and in the material sectors. These are also concrete plans for, as I understand it. Another example is the Flytrain, which I believe has become a formidable success. The total collective share of travellers to and from the main aerodrome is about 60 pst, and 40 of these stand for the Flytrain alone. This clearly tells us that the flight train is preferred to and from Gardermoen. And a transport option that, in competition with others, has a market share of 40 pst., can be difficult but just a success. My point can be summed up in that there might have been some others who recognised that everything is not completely black for the railways in Norway. The fact that thousands of employees, the group management and owner now work purposefully to turn what's not going well enough is part of the reality that the NSB is in. An old railway pensioner told me some time ago that the railway in Norway is really about so much more than just the railway. We get to put in this whatever we want, but in any case, one can easily get right! So it's hard for a Westerner to have the floor in a debate like this without touching the Bergensbanen. With its very special history and meaning, it stands in a special position. In its 92nd year, it probably still fascinates thousands of travelers just as much as it did when the first train from Christiania to Bergen on its 18-hour-long maiden voyage trodden over the mountain. Today this trip takes about 6 hours. It is very gratifying to record the continuation of NSB’s long-haul operation. And I allow myself very briefly to remember that both the Ringerik Railway and the extension of tunnel profiles along both the Nordlandsbahn and Bergensbanen are important in this perspective. I have allowed myself to touch little on the communication that is being debated. What I want to get is that I want to be a friend of the NSB. I want to be a friend of the train. And I want to have confidence that the company and the employees now see the seriousness, that they see what needs to be done, because as the case-rapporteur pointed out in his main post today: tonight, the Storting is making its contribution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1824	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1827	I will try not to extend the debate in particular, but I would like to stress the importance of what both the case rapporteur and others have been involved in, that the NSB is now getting armshake and rest. Like the rapporteur, I have to say that the basis has now been laid in the ownership notice, and I sincerely hope that the management and the board and not least the employees will succeed. They have my best wishes. The reason I took the floor was otherwise the chairman of the committee, the representative Oddvard Nilsens, visited the famous reconciliation Arbeiderpartiet, the Christian People's Party and SV submitted the special laws companies. Now I'm recording that the committee's leader refers to asphalt on county roads. Then I might have to correct a misunderstanding: it was highways. But then it's like asphalt is asphalt. What is at least interesting to record is that in the later budget after the famous conciliation, the Right has supported the laying of asphalt on these gravel roads, and it has actually done the Right also in the National Transport Plan. What I also record is that in today's Dagbladet, the Right has put forward its strategy for negotiations with the Progress Party and the representative of Hagen. And what I'm super excited about now is seeing this negotiating strategy that Right wants to put up with the Christian People's Party, and maybe not least to get involved in the shopping list that Right now will present. It's not possible to see it on this side of the election. But whoever survives the election and gets to relive this house, might see that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1838	It is important in all contexts to try to approach the problems as sincerely as possible. And I actually did that in my post, because I have no faith that it is possible to protect myself for progress here in the world. All experience shows that those who try to do so develop structures and conditions that cause them to lose competitiveness over time. It's e.g. there is no coincidence that truck transport in Norway is as effective as it is: there is bone-hard competition there. And it also evolves in such a way – through innovation – that trucks change, transport changes, it becomes fairer, it becomes competition. So, of course, the Right accepts that on the rail track in Norway there is probably more limited in that way. However, to say that it is important to have competition to point out that it is important to have the most money left for the resources. And that was my main score. If it's the case that the majority of the Storing people don't want competition on the track for different reasons, I ask the Right to find out models where we can measure the effectiveness of this, so that we all know that the 1.2 billion kroner that we're now paying for the purchase of services reflect something, that it can be proven in a way that it's what it costs, and that that's what should be the right price of it. There's nothing else we're asking for. The point with the second part of my post – even now with SV inside, I actually agree with the representative Myrvoll – was that I believe that this house has in some way also contributed to the problems, just by connecting things along the way. I've tried to say it, of course I've been able to. Whether it was highways or highways, that was not the point. The point was that it is not possible to make compromises like this if you want the enterprise to be helped to get the most out of the resources. Then you have to run a straight line on it and say: it's in this context the NSB we're talking about, not roads or what it might be around in this country! You can't connect those things there. That's what's been done over and over again – you know that in this room – and it's obviously weakened the NSB as such the next time. No one would want more than myself to get this we're now adding, to. There shall be no aid or support from the Right here. But to have this slightly critical attitude towards a company, to be a demanding customer in this, to be a demanding politician, who wants this to go well, it can't be anything wrong. I am convinced that the leadership of the NSB is also very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1849	At least in the debate this evening we have received another argument as to why it was right to reorganise the NSB in 1996. If we hadn't done that, surely Moor and Romsdal could still have worn out highways that didn't have solid cover. I came in my first post to say something that does not lead to correctness. I said that it was a unanimous committee that was concerned with ensuring free parking at the railway stations in connection with the discussion on the sale of properties. That's not exactly right. All parties, except the Advance Party, are behind that comitology. Right shall be right! The head of the committee said this in his first post: ‘If it should now prove that one has again been too optimistic about the possibilities for the NSB...’. I believe in a polite and kind way that I will reply to the committee leader that at least he has not been hurt tonight to be too optimistic about the future of the NSB. I think that of his 10 minutes post, 9 1⁄2 of them was a misdemeanor description of what happened to the NSB, and then it was half a minute to finish where it was future that was to be sketched, and it consisted largely in selling out NSB's subsidiaries. Some of the points must be, as Inge Myrvoll also said, that we have some visions, and that we have some goals. The aim is to carry as many passengers as possible on trains and as many goods as possible on rail. Therefore, it becomes almost impossible for political authorities to go in and discuss and problematize the way Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen did and mentioned the example of transporting Russian timber from Drammen to Otta. I don't have any formation, and I don't want to have it, whether it's right to transport Russian timber from Drammen to Otta by rail or by truck. And I don't have it whether it's about transporting it to the left or Dombås either. The sea of the NSB Goods must be assessed, but on the assumption that the total volume of goods on the track is increasing. This is what must be the point of country ownership: we must draw up the general guidelines, the overall objectives, and then the company must have the freedom to decide how those objectives are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1865	My dear associate, Comrade Myrli, has in some way not got the whole of what I said. He talked about visions and goals, that he agreed with me that we had to have. But I tried to emphasize in my post that it was not enough. It could be a goodwill rhetoric. The most important thing is the tools we use, and that's where I feel that this hall is going to fall short. Myrli talked about transporting timber on the track, and said that he should not have any big ideas about where to go. But at the same time, we know that in a timber transport, the cost of NSB Freight may be 5-6 pst due to the road charge. of their costs. And it could be that it's the margins that make this not profitable. So – we decide on some of the tools to be used, the framework conditions to be met by the railway. And I stressed it very strongly in my post, because that can affect us. When we have the objectives and the visions, we must also have the ability to act! The representative Folkvord mentioned the Ringeriks course. I guess that was to make me get a little bit sentimental and think back. Yes, we once took a decision here with a view to starting up in 1997. We can't do that! Then that start-up was not to be at the expense of what was to be done on the Westfold and Eastfold tracks. There has not been this far, and we have come after 1997. And then it's about: if you want to bet on this infrastructure, you have to take a real lift. If not, we will never get to the Ringeriksbanen, because we will not be done with Asker – Skøyen, Oslo–Ski, Vestfoldbanen and Østfoldbanen, which is in some way in line. So if the representative Folkvord wants to get the Ringerix track in place – it won't be while I'm here then, but it's asking if I can get to the opening with the hooker and wave a little! – then he actually has to get his party to bet on the railway. The chairperson of the Committee returned to this agreement. Now I don't think this asphalt went out on the railroad. I don't think it belonged in those debates. It can be heard at home in other debates. On the other hand, I know that there have been many negotiations in this house where you have dragged in things that were not exactly related to what you negotiated about. I think that list could be long. Now it was not we in SV who pulled in neither the asphalt nor the night and at Raumabanen with the new will in the sleeping car – I guess it was also there! I think it's competition for the train. It's in competition with road. And the question is, are you willing to do something about the competitive conditions of the railway? I feel that no one has responded to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1881	Let me first say that this is not hopeless. We have just dealt with the national transport plan with a significant rise in infrastructure over the next ten years. It was also announced that we would reconsider, among other things. the road charge. Kofoed-Larsen pointed to the framework agreement, and made a number that it has been unchanged for many years, and that's right. But that responsibility must be shared by different governments, not least governments. from Kofoed-Larsen's own party. But I would like to point out that there are also motivations for the NSB in the current agreement. Because it is that if you get a higher traffic than what is the basis of the agreements, the NSB retains passenger income. In addition to that, we have given signals in the national transport plan that we will consider how to arrange the agreements in the future. We are actively working on this and aim to establish a new framework agreement from next year. The representative Ringstad was in on Transportation No. 4th@item: inlistbox I think I remember who it was, a pretty big freight forwarder, and I think it's right to remember that the same freight forwarder at a later stage has clearly stated that the condition is now significantly better, and that he will still bet on the use of rail and combined transport. So when you're in on the success of the Flytrain, it's just like someone thinks that that success has almost happened despite what else has happened in the NSB. But then I would be a little rhetorical to ask: where do you think the Flytrain has picked up their knowledge from, its ability to operate the railway? Of course, it is from the total knowledge that lies in the railway family in Norway, and we must all be happy that there is such basic knowledge there. That's what gives hope for the future. We have to look at the Fly train as an example that we can do it too. It's not that we almost do this despite. We'll make it when the assumptions are there. So I'll also talk about the 1996 deal. I'm not going to go into a deep analysis of either the highways or one or the other, but what's important is that the then government and the Workers' Party thought it was especially important to make a change with the NSB. It was the head of the Government and of the Workers' Party to get to. Then it became necessary to make a settlement that also had elements in it that pointed out here, but what would the alternative be? Well, it would be that you probably didn't have the power to make the change that was necessary for the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1902	There has been some debate around, among others. The post of the committee leader, Oddvard Nilsen, on his negative focus on the NSB. I'm a little surprised at that, because I actually perceived it so that the representative Nilsen in his post had many important formulations and many important approaches in terms of the future of the railway, by setting requirements, measuring results for the operation and things that we should all agree on. Of course, I completely disagree with the representative Oddvard Nilsen in his desire to privatize the railway. I guess we're all aware of that desire, but that's why we also have to be able to say that even if we disagree completely with the angle of incidence of that particular question, we can have a lot of common comments about the operation of the NSB itself. I must also give some praise to the representative Sverre Myrli for the objective of railway operation by the Workers' Party, with as many people as possible and as many goods by rail. It is nice that some specific objectives also came from the Workers' Party. With regard to the airline train, I would like to clarify, as I also did in my first post, that the majority of the committee both a year ago and now is fully aware of the NSB as a company, but I would nevertheless like to refer to proposals for decisions which the committee has nominated: ‘The flight train AS shall continue to be organised as a subsidiary of 100 pst. owned by NSB BA with a high degree of freedom and independence in line with what is outlined in the Innst. S. No 237 [[2000-2001]] This is fully agreed by the majority of the committee, and we are taking this as the basis for further consideration in relation to the flight train. In the case of NSB goods and Russian timber from Drammen to Otta, it was in the newspaper essay that came in the past week, actually a sort of agreement between NSB Gods and this company at Otta that it should be possible to use the railway from Drammen to Otta, and not from Drammen to Lillehammer with trailer further. I think that was a good example that that's not how we want it to be. We actually want, as the representative Sverre Myrli, to have more goods from road to rail and not the other way around, so that we get even more trailers on our roads, which are quite exposed from the past. I think we agree on that, and that's why we have a job to do each in our place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1920	In these late night hours, there are both negative and positive descriptions of the NSB. Some parties give a nice description and some give a description of misery. In the Committee on Transport we all really agree with the representative Myrli said when he wanted as many passengers as possible and as many goods as possible for the NSB. In fact, I fully agree with the representative Myrli, but that is the way to get there, which is so fatally wrong on the part of the Workers' Party. They have now tried the same medicine for a year, and there will be fewer passengers, there will be fewer goods, there will be fewer lines, and everything will only go down spiral. So the representative Myrli says that it is we in this room that “must draw up the general guidelines”. Could it not be a cross of thought if it is where the error lies? Why are we going to sit and decide all that NSB is going to do, how they're going to run and everything? Why can't we also release the lines, let other actors come in or tender? Why are you on death and life in the belief that it's just the NSB that's the salvaging thing on the railway track? I fully agree with the representative, Myrli, who wants more passengers. I'm sure that's what you want, and we in the Progress Party want it too – but that's the way to get there. I think that in the next period, or next time, you'll see a completely different system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1930	I had originally not intended to speak in this debate, but there have been quite strong expressions of love here attached to the train, and it may seem that there are some who think they are entitled to be alone about this love. It is then that there is an expression that should not be taken literally, but that still says, "The one you love, you discipline." It may to some extent be that there is a reasonably high level of responsibility also in this room for following up the train in the situation that the NSB and the railway works are currently in. With regard to the statements made by the Workers' Party and the SV, a certain impression may have been that there is a greater love for an organisational form than for the train – at least in relation to part of the criticism that has come, among other things. against the Christian People's Party in the case of good proposals for improvement and to take the audience seriously in the case of train operations. So short to Ola Røtweg, who's asking for a place of work for NSB. It would just be missing if the NSB didn't get a job. I think that's exactly what's needed. But at the same time, it must not mean that it should deprive us of the opportunity, with the responsibility we have, to follow closely the situation in which the NSB is now in, not least in relation to the money we are now wagering, and to get a continuous reporting of the situation further. Because, as many have said, we are in a time for the NSB because I think there is a need for action, both inside and in this room. Maybe we have to bring in more money, and then I'll say that from the Christian People's Party we are willing to do it. But then we have to know. What I have at least experienced during the four years I have been sitting on the Stortinget, is that we have walked through a period from being told by the NSB that now everything went so sweetly, until things all of a sudden shiver completely in hope. Not only is it caused by accidents, but it is also due to some decisions taken, not least in relation to the material purchased. So rest: yes. But a close follow-up from this hall I think is also important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1937	There have been some allegations this evening that cannot be contradicted. The representative, Inge Myrvoll, was in the house and was very concerned about paying the road tax on the road, but that it was not on the way. Then I just have to tell the representative that you have it coming. Fees are in fines and buckets. You pay a fuel tax, which is the same as a road tax, you also pay through toll systems. All in all, road transport pays more in road charges than what goes on the road. This has been done by road transport for many years. In addition, the NSB has protected itself from competition by charging aircraft competing with the track. You also have the same obstacle on a bus that wants to compete with the track. So it was the representative Gard Folkvord who said that the Flytrain, the Gardermoban, was a formidable success. Then it's clear that we don't see what is really the truth, with the same eyes. It's that the Gardermoban goes with subsidies to a thousand for every traveler going to the airport. Had it been a success, the ticket revenue would have paid for the operation, and they do not. The Rome art was not a free task either. There it was also that you had to forgive debts. It's clear that you can make this go around when the state comes in once in a while. I agree with the representative Oddvard Nilsen that the Workers' Party does not want competition on the track and that it is the Stortinget that has contributed to the problems that the NSB now has. Myrli was concerned that the Progress Party was the only party that went against free parking at railway stations. We did, because we know that many of the railway stations and places that NSB owns today are actually subject to charges. If one is to follow Myrli, it must mean that the places that are now subject to a fee will also be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1952	Inge Myrvoll has spoken twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1955	The representative Sahl referred to the Biblical proverb "The One Who Loves, You Discipline". Yes, during that motto there has been a lot of wife and child abuse. But it's actually like the one you love, you have to take good care of and give rest and the right conditions of work. And that's what we have to do in terms of the railway. Then it is produced as if the railways in Norway are a heavy burden. Does one then compare with other countries? It is actually the state that builds rail in other countries as well. In Norway, the share of public purchases of rail transport services is relatively low — one of the lowest in Europe. Public purchases in other countries are on a completely different level. Public purchases have something to do with framework conditions, which in turn have something to do with the economy of the companies. And where privatisation has gone the longest, in the United Kingdom, chaos is on the trail!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1962	Even if it is late, a clarification in relation to the post by the representative Stensaker. It is that we facilitate competition on the track in the case of goods, as long as there is track capacity. We made that clear during the treatment of the national transport plan, which was also agreed by the Storting. Then I can't leave what the representative Sahl said undisputedly: we take people seriously, of course. We want to organize the agreements so that the NSB is able to carry as many people as possible. And as for Sahl's description that he has only been reported positive things about the NSB throughout the period, I have in my time considered that it is the Government that has the reporting responsibility of the Stortinget, and so I assume that it has been throughout the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1971	Hopefully the last time – but it was the representative Steinsaker who allowed me something that I have not said at all in the debate on what we are problematic about parking areas at stations. It is not the opinion of the majority that the State in places in the Kingdom where there may be parking spaces subject to charging charges in relation to railway stations should go in and say that there should no longer be a parking charge. I have to replicate that if we had done so, we would at least have been rid of one of the charges that clearly exist in the ‘feet and bucket’ of the Progress Party. But at least that's not the point. What is meant, and as we stress, is that if the land currently owned by the NSB/ROM Property Development and currently used for parking spaces is to be sold, it must continue to be secured for that purpose. That is the intention of the majority. I have read that Martin Tranmål once stated that the evening post writes positively about me, what wrong have I done? I was going to feel a little bit in that situation when I heard the representative Thore Aksel Nistad, who at least twice said in his post that he was ‘completely in agreement with Sverre Myrli’. I will not leave it undisputed from this pulpit, and I am concerned if it is the opinion, just three months before the elections, that Thore Aksel Nistad and I fully agree with the railway policy. If one reads the proposals made by the Progress Party in the budgetary procedure in recent years, or in all years, one will see that the relations of the Progress Party with the railways are not very hot. Ola Røtvej is talking about work rest for the NSB, and Jan Sahl is talking about love. When we look at the clock, we can at least agree – I assume – to establish in the case of Røtvej's workplace and Sahl's loving relationship at this time of the day, that a care of a love relationship, then maybe it'll be okay with work rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e1980	The President has learned from this debate that railway policy is very erotic in it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 26 and 27 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 3941]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2007	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Right and the Advance Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2016	We're dealing with a lot of veggies in connection with this collective proposition. I'll just comment a few. First to the E18 in Kristiansand and the extension of the tolling system. The majority join this arrangement, and I think it's now important that we get this main supply to the University of Agder. Consolidation of traffic in a main supply between E18 and the higher education area will improve the availability and environmental impact of residential areas. Moreover, after I have been informed, we will save some of the costs of implementing this project now, approx. Five million. kr. And five million. kr is also money. Then to the E6 Osen – Korgen in Nordland. In the context of the current year’s budget, there was a majority in favour of introducing an initial allocation of 25 million Lofast. kr. In terms of the planning situation for Lofast, it is not clear, so that the project cannot be started up this year, and then the majority assumed that this money could be used for the start-up of the E6 Osen–Korgen. It is now being implemented. I would also like to say that the Lofast project will be launched as soon as the planning situation is resolved, and it will be implemented in an optimal way. In the case of E6 Tjäldal-Leirvika in the North, there is a section which is particularly vulnerable to breeds. The Committee notes that it is important that progress is made as quickly as possible in the planning and design of the route at risk. Of course, the planning has to follow the usual procedure, but it is important that one on this route initiates the necessary racial protection as early as possible during this planning period. That is why I assume that the Council of State and the Government will follow up with the means of design this year if necessary. As far as I'm aware, there's an additional appropriation on top of it. 1320 item 31 in connection with the revision, which will be dealt with tomorrow. The government is also following up the testing of the new catamaran ferry type. I am pleased that the Government is following up the remarks made by the majority in the transport plan. The majority are open on which connection it may be appropriate to try out this type of ferry. But there will be longer connections with large traffic in the screened waters suitable for this type of ferry. Finally, a few words about the production of the state road system. The Government informs in this joint proposal that the report drawn up by Statskonsult on the organisation of the production activities has been handed over to the Ministry. A unanimous committee asks for an organisational change in the production department to come to Stortinget as its own case. However, in this context, I would like to point out that there is a significant effort to improve the efficiency of the production department. This is a work that needs to be continued, regardless of any organisational change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2031	St. pp. No 76 contains a number of cases in the Department of Transport. Others from the Christian People's Party will later come into aviation, youth cards and part of the road projects mentioned in the proposition. I'm going to focus on the railways, the state road system and the rest of the road projects. Let me start with E18. The size will open today to the extension of the toll collection on the E18, both over the Eidang peninsula and in Kristiansand. Extended toll collection on the E18 over the Edanger peninsula will allow for the rapid implementation of key road safety measures which were not noticed until after the opening of the new E18. Of course, it is possible to finance these measures within the Telemark framework for investment in other national roads. However, both investments are linked to the E18 route, which is linked to the E18 route, which was noticed after the opening and is linked to the bypass routes. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party prefer to send the bill for the projects to Telemark County, with the uncertainty it will lead to for priority, and the consequences it may have for other priority actions in the county. Extension of the toll project in Kristiansand has met with resistance from the municipalities around. What is to be financed with the extension of toll collection is a new road to the College and better organisation of public transport. Both components are measures that will make a lot of progress, and this will reduce environmental disadvantages in residential areas. The Christian People's Party will therefore join the Government's proposal. We have also noticed that there are plans to invest 50 million. Starter and cycle roads. How this is to be financed needs to be brought back, but I would like to mention in this context that, when dealing with the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the Storting decided to create a national strategy to increase safety and make it more attractive to choose a bicycle as a means of emergence. With regard to the Eastfold package, I would like to express my support for the importance of starting toll collection as soon as possible. In addition, I would like to stress what has been a prerequisite for the Christian People's Party all the way, that one should start taking action on the Eastfold course in the first part of the period. It is positive that the Government has now cleared up a distribution of the costs associated with the new bridge to Tautra. That means that the centre parties' initiative to clean up the environmental problems caused by the old bridge is now moving towards a final solution. Our country is characterized by fjords and mountains. Some of the fjords we cross with a bridge, some we build a tunnel under, but still we need ferries. That's what it's going to be. That's why it's important that we gradually start replacing old ferries, and that we apply new, better and more environmentally friendly technology. Proposition points to fast catamaran ferries. On long distance journeys, such ferries could lead to a significant reduction in travel time. The Ministry points out in its proposal that there is a risk and increased administrative costs of first being out with a new type of ferry. That's probably right. However, if Norway is to be a precursor, we cannot wait until others have tried everything out. It is positive that the majority in favour of the treatment of the national transport plan is now followed up so that this type of ferry can be tested. Tomorrow, the revised national budget will be discussed. A majority agree that there is a need for a faster replacement of old ferries than ten new ferries in the ten-year period, as provided by NTP. A majority also agree that it is necessary to provide a clear signal for the insertion of gas ferries in connection with which this is provided. The government is then also asked to come back with a briefing on the phase-in of gas ferries in the 2002 budget. It is very positive that a majority agree that we need a faster replacement of the ferry rather than ten new ferries in ten years. Such a rate of replacement would lead to an increase in the average age of the ferries, and many of them are probably already old enough. It is also very gratifying that there is now a broad majority in agreement that gas ferries should be deployed where this is possible. That means we've come a step closer to new and much more environmentally friendly ferries. The proposal also proposes adjustments to the powers of the State Road Administration. The Christian People's Party, together with the entire Committee, has joined in the adjustments. The objective is to make rational use of the appropriations. On the production activities of the State Road Administration, the Committee refers to the State Consultant's report. The Committee asks that the organisation of the production activities be submitted to Stortinget as a matter of its own. Then to the railroad. The main part of the rail review is about follow-up after the AST accident. We all agree that safety work in rail transport must have a high priority. We also agree that strengthening the competitiveness of the rail system in order to lead both people and goods from road to road is a road safety measure in itself. The responsibility for safety lies with the infrastructure manager, the railway station, and the operator, the NSB BA. However, it is also a political responsibility to prioritise funds for necessary investments for safety and maintenance. It is frightening that the Commission considers that it has identified safety thinking and safety management deficiencies both at the NSA BA and at the Railway Station. It is very important that the Commission's recommendations are followed up. Barriers are important to ensure that no single failure results in serious accidents. The development of ATC/CTC and the installation of communication equipment are tasks the entire Committee will give priority to. The Government is following up the proposals of the Railway Agency and the Commission for measures of 101.7 million. kr in the revised national budget. I assume that there will be more funds in the budget for the autumn. Unfortunately, the Government chooses to allow the security measures to go beyond the investment and maintenance appropriations. About 80 pst. by the means of security measures are covered within the railway framework. Forty million. kr is taken from maintenance, where the allocation is reduced. Forty million. redisposal of kr within the investment framework, increasing only by 61,7 million. kr, despite the fact that it's going to be 101.7 million. kr for safety measures. The maintenance of the Norwegian railway is not already good enough. The aftermath is great – we know that. This proposal by the Government does not make it any better. At a time when the railway is struggling with the confidence of the travelers, it is sad that a party that likes to call itself friends of the railway seems to have to reduce the maintenance effort. There is no contribution to strengthening the punctuality of the NSB. Cutting off other investments will also have negative consequences. The positive thing is that almost the entire committee has joined the Christian People's Party initiative for opening up the double track in Sande. An almost collective committee expresses impatience over the opening of the new double track. Now the opening has been exposed long enough, the track has been there for months and years. Therefore, a majority assume that the final work can be carried out without further delay, so that it is possible to use the new route. I am pleased that in a letter from the Council of State we have clarified the train offer in Gudbrandsdalen. The compensation offer by bus should go from Dombås to Lillehammer, not from Otta to Lillehammer, as it is written in the proposal. But the goal must be to get the train offer back when the material and driver situation can allow this again. So at the end of the Valdres course: From the Christian People's Party we have stated that we will maintain the track, assuming a rapid clarification from the stakeholders. For the Christian People's Party, it is not appropriate to use too small a framework for the Railway Agency for investment/maintenance on a route where there is no regular train service. So to the contract of public purchase, payment for passenger transport services. We have noted the Government's proposal to increase the budget by 228 million. NOK 12,215 million. kr. This shall provide the basis for maintaining the offer and avoiding price increases in addition to general price increases. I'm not going to hide that with the problems that have been in the NSB last year, I wouldn't be surprised if the increase in the amount had been greater. Actually, I had hoped that the amount would be larger, not because I need to distribute money to the NSB, but because I would like to see the purchase of passenger transport services had a larger amount. The proposition deals with the year’s agreement – as it is in itself somewhat late to make changes in now when we reach 14 June. Therefore, we have also put aside such ideas from the Christian People's Party, despite the fact that we believe the agreement has significant weaknesses and shortcomings. However, there is also a negotiated agreement, which should be emphasised. With regard to the weaknesses of the agreement and the Christian People's Party's view on how the agreement should be improved, I just refer to the post I made about the NSB earlier this evening. I am glad that the agreement also means that the train offer on the Arendalsbanen and Bratsbergbanen is resumed. Finally, I would like to stress, as the majority of the Committee also does in its voting, that there must be an offer that makes it attractive to use the railways. And my recommendation is: Take the train!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2080	I'm going to take some key areas of the setting. The airline’s economy has become much more difficult with the financial commitments made by Oslo Airport Gardermoen on the part of the Swedish Aviation Agency, together with the loss of revenue from aviation to the Swedish Aviation Agency. The reduction in passenger traffic makes gaps in the assumptions for the forecasts of air traffic revenue to provide the Aviation Agency. Passenger charges have become so high that they prevent the development of aviation and put a brake on the necessary investments and maintenance in terms of safety and efficiency measures. It is necessary to create a framework for the Aviation Agency that will enable it to solve the problems that we in this House want them to be able to solve. The proposed establishment of a fire and rescue training centre in Teldsund will impose significant increases on the Aviation Agency in terms of investments and current annual costs. It is positive that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party in this respect underline the serious economic situation of the Aviation Agency and will not burden the Aviation Agency with additional expenditure due to the training centre. I refer to the setting, where the right pulls the full consequence of this by keeping the training centre related to the Gardermo. I will then discuss some of the road projects mentioned in the setting. When a toll project is established, this is an agreement with the users that requires the project to be carried out under this agreement. Here Stortinget has a commitment to the users that the Right intends to fulfil. Every time the Storting gives a new content to a toll project, the agreement is broken, without allowing users to intervene. This is the basis for the Right-hand treatment of toll projects. The right will support the proposal to extend the tolling period for the tolling station at E18 Lannerheia by two and a half months in order to render the tolling company indebted but is opposed to financing actions that were not in place when the company was established. On the right, extended toll financing for the E18 in Kristiansand is opposed, since the proposal requires the E18 drivers to pay for a road they will not use, which is not in line with the guidelines for such projects given by the Stortinget. For similar reasons, the Right will not support the financing of actions on the Inherred Road and the Intermediate Road on the E6. These, like the other toll proposals we oppose, should be financed from the ordinary road budgets, and I refer here to the Right's proposals for road appropriations, where this could be covered. On several occasions, the Right has pointed to the possibilities for better use of road vehicles by improving the efficiency of the State Road Service. The savings achieved here must be used to improve roads. I can assure you that we are waiting for information about the organisation of production activities in the state road system. I am convinced that there are great opportunities in modernising this activity and to bring in far more competition for the assignments where the Vegvesen is now an actor. That's the railroad. NSB BA has been treated in a different setting here today. The railway works have a clear responsibility for safety, and the NSB BA has the same responsibility for their traffic operations. The confidence in security has been shattered in the light of the serious accidents that lie behind us. It must be repatriated. We have excellent environments for safety work in air traffic and offshore operations. Railway undertakings have a great deal to gain from the very important competences of these two sectors. It is a challenge for the Ministry of Transport to establish cooperation and an exchange of experience in the field of safety across industrial borders. The 12.7 km new stretch at Sande in Westfold was to be completed on 4 October 1998. Now there are many people who doubt whether it will be completed in 2001. This is an incredible railway policy. The Americans landed on the moon 33 years ago. But the government can't get the train to run on a 12.7 km distance. True municipalities that are affected have become severely harmed. I can't see what the Christian People's Party has done to speed up the completion of this path. That's what I thought was an airy recording. Right supports increasing the framework for the purchase of passenger transport services by train by 228 million. kr. This is in line with our proposal to increase the allocation of public transport that we have promoted in the national transport plan, but which the other parties have opposed. NSB BA has large values, which we're pointing to in the setting we're dealing with here. A good part of this must be realised before it is appropriate to invest more capital in the company. Right supports setting point 1, we're going to go against points 2, 3 and 4, and we're going to support point 5. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this moment in Stortinget. It's been rich and challenging. Collegial cooperation across political interests is something that will always be strong in memory. In particular, I would like to thank the employees where they are in the buildings where they work. Kindness, skill and always helping – they've been unique, and I'm going to miss them all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2116	The President believes that there are many who share the views expressed here by Brunæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2119	In the case of air transport, the Progress Party is pleased that the Oslo-Røros route offer is maintained, especially when we see the problems faced by airlines, which the Progress Party believes are largely due to the taxes and charges imposed on aviation, among other things. to protect NSB. The establishment of the Air Safety Authority provided for approx. 120 added the first year. Now, the point of progress is that the number has risen to 140, so we'll be careful to increase the number further. We have also noticed that there are problems between management and employees, and that the main protection officer has been ill-appointed because of this. This is a situation in which it needs to be cleaned up, as the working environment is very important for efficient resource use. With regard to the Aviation Agency, the Progress Party is satisfied that the aim is to replace the flight control systems at Sola, Flesland, Værnes and Bodø in order to improve the safety of these airports. On the roadside, I would like to point out the E6 section Trondheim – Stjørdal, where the northern run of the Grilstad tunnel has been completed and unused for several years, while serious accidents have occurred in one race that has until now been in use, and have become a bottleneck on the route. The Party enters into the process of completing the tolling period as foreseen and considers that the completion of the northerly tunnel with access routes, including the centre and toll station adaptations, shall be financed by State resources. We also oppose the funding of actions on the Inherred Road and the Midway through tolls from E6, as these are actions that benefit a few E6 drivers. That is why we believe that these measures should be financed by the national road allocations to the South-Tronde Teams. In the case of transfers to NSB BA, the Progress Party questions what is left of the significant transfers received by the NSB for passenger transport services. The party seeking a competitive and attractive offer to road users, having regard to the performance and financing capacity of NSA BA as competing companies. The Progress Party therefore wants more actors, both national and international, to benefit from this infrastructure. We believe that the form of the company BA should be discontinued for the NSB, so that the NSB is converted into a limited liability company, in order to enable the company to increase efficiency, reduce costs and improve service. The party of progress is also skeptical about the state being the owner of the NSB. Swedish authorities estimate saving 250 million. public crowns per year for putting station and train operations on the market. It is also our opinion that the NSB has significant values that lie in the Flytoget AS, Nettbuss AS and NSB Gods, and that must be realised before the State launches additional funds into the NSB. In Norway, the government purchases passenger services for 987 million. kr in the year of the NSB, so tendering should also be a means of saving public expenditure in Norway. This subsidisation lacks the bus companies on the same route, but can still compete for both price and comfort. Therefore, it is doubtful that the subsidised NSB by the State prevents others without subsidising from competing. If the railway is to compete, other actors must be allowed on the rail track in equal competition for persons and goods. As the Council of State had in mind, there is some competition on the freight side today, although it has not been properly activated, but it remains to be put out of competition for passenger transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2136	In five minutes it is impossible to comment on all the individual matters mentioned in St.prp. No Seventy-six. So there's only a few things I'd like to say a little bit about. I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that there is a deal between several departments to carry out tests on the transport of disabled people in the labour and education context. Of course, as SV has done in the setting, we can state that the scheme is not satisfactory. But to start trying, I think of it as an important step in the right direction. This debate also includes Document No. 8:37 for 2000-2001, which relates to the co-location of the Aviation Agency’s training centre with Norway’s Fire School. Saka is also mentioned in St.prp. No Seventy-six. In 1998, the then Minister for Transport Dørum entered in order for part of the Aviation Agency’s training centre, that is, the fire and rescue service, to be added to Norway’s Fire School in Tjeldsund, Northland. This has led to considerable investment in Teldsund to facilitate co-location. In addition, the cost of planning joint development comes. It is therefore positive that the current government confirms the decision taken in 1998. Thus, the investments made in Tjeldsund can be of benefit. I argued that there was no need for additional investment at the Aviation Training Centre at Trandum. In the National Transport Plan, the organisation of the State Road Service was one of many themes. The government indicated there that alternative organisational models would be developed. The state road system has an important role to play in the exercise of road policy in the country. It should be obvious, of course, that the organisation of the State Road Administration, including the production company in the State Road Administration, would come back to Stortinget as a matter of fact. But in St.prp. No 76 we can read that the Ministry will come back to the Stortinget with a reference to the organisation of production activities in the 2002 budget proposal. I am therefore pleased that in the comments the Committee on Transport has said that the organisation of the production operation must return to the Stortinget as its own cause. In addition, in one of the other cases on the case map today, we will vote for a proposal from a majority in Stortinget, a proposal that the organisation of the State Road Administration should return to Stortinget as its own case. Earlier this evening, we debated a matter on the NSB BA's 2001-2003, but we do not escape the NSB in this debate either. St. pp. No 76 deals with the Asta-uluka and the Asta-Commission. The Åsta Commission points to several areas that it is very important to follow up. This includes points relating to technical installations, but also those relating to safety enhancement and safety management of railway undertakings. Both the NSB BA and the Railway Agency have a great responsibility to follow up the points addressed by the Åsta Commission. Safety must be placed in the centre, both in the NSB BA and in the Railway Station. The use of the budget must be in line with this. In 2000, the Stortinget adopted the transport budget for 2001, without the agreement on passenger transport services being negotiated. Only in April 2001 was the agreement for 2001, an agreement showing that the payment for the purchase of passenger transport services by the State had to be increased by 228 million. in addition to the amount entered in the budget. It is worth noting that the agreement implies a continuation of train provision in 2000, adjusted among others. for the changes resulting from the lack of locomotive drivers. So we don't get bigger output with the extra cost, rather the opposite. The lack of train drivers led to problems in the implementation of its planned production in 2000. This was, according to the NSB’s information, the reason why the train production on some sections was shut down or reduced. It is gratifying that the train production on Arendalsbanen and Bratsbergbanen are now being re-signed. However, I would like to remind you that the production of trains was also reduced to other sections, e.g. Randsfjord Railway. I argued that all the sections that were caused by the reduction in train production were re-assessed when train production could increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2153	When in my younger days I went night shifts, I thought it was the best shifts to go. But I was not used to the fact that the whole continuous shift meant that you went all the shifts in a row. It's a little bit of a shame, when it's maybe the last night with the gang, that I have to punish, but I have to do that in this post too. There's a big spread in these cases, and I don't see any reason to reach all of them. I'm going to focus on someone. But I'm going to make some scattered comments first. Youth cards come in the budget for the autumn. It's impossible to comment on what's going to happen, but what we're agreed on is that it's important to teach young people how to use collective transport solutions, that they're not just growing up in the backseat of their parents' car. It may affect future behaviour. So to a serious concern regarding aviation oversight. One thing is that the Air Safety Authority is in the process of entering into a series of legal proceedings with its employees, that the internal working environment appears to be very burdensome for the employees. On the other hand, or perhaps it is related, developments within the Air Safety Authority seem to go in the opposite direction to the objectives of the Government for a modernised public sector — less administration and better services. The boss, the director's board, has 23 out of 140 employees. Every six employees are top-level heads. Despite the increasing number of employees, the number of managers has increased, the use of consultants has quadrupled in two years. As I know, the job is in the field, for example. the control activities of aeroplanes, which have gone downwards. It's a frightening development in a plant that's supposed to safeguard our aviation safety. There is a negative trend at a time when the public sector will become more efficient. It's a sad development for the employees. I am surprised that the rest of the committee is so indifferent and would prefer not to think anything about the situation in the Air Safety Authority. So I'm asking, do they think that the state is okay? A small comment on the economic development of the Aviation Agency. Once the Aviation Agency has reached a tight economic era, it is important to give proper priority. The signals from the Swedish Aviation Agency on the closure of regional airports, the postponement of technical/operational upgrading of regional airports are negative. We have to have the courage to signal what's most important. The most important thing is not to build new despatch buildings at sea-going aerodromes such as the Sola, or to expand on Flesland and Værnes if there is a question of survival for parts of regional airports. Then the Committee and the Storting must dare to give priority, say what comes first – dare to make some choices and stand by them. That's what SV does. We say, put the plans on the Sola, Flesland and Guards in a mill bag, prioritize the survival and upgrade of regional airports if we have to choose. So a question about Teldsund and the Aviation Training Centre. I have understood that the Department has decided that the training centre of the Aviation Agency should be located in Tjeldsund. I have become more in doubt after reading the majority comment on which the Workers' Party is involved. What does the Workers' Party even mean? Is it settled? Then I'll gallantly skip the veggies. The pleasure of sending a little message home about the Korgbergellet and Firehøllia is great. No one's going to hear about them. Then I go on to the serious matter, namely Asta accident. Last year everyone was concerned with railway safety. The critical light was directed towards the NSB and the Railway Agency. That's right. But at the same time I was already afraid, afraid that when we were doing our part of the job, we did not follow up. Strengthening railway safety shall preferably be free of charge. In the Railway Works magazine, «Roadway» No. 4, Director Steinar Killi writes to a director under the title ‘Complete pressure on the safety work’: ‘At the same time, this is a judgment on railway priorities over several years. I will take my share of responsibility, but it is also a responsibility that must be shared with pastors, politicians and others who have contributed to setting the framework conditions for railway operations." That's right. In the number after, no. 5, he writes to a new manager under the title ‘Surprises’. The revised budget was then presented. The surprise was that he had not received the means he expected to implement the safety measures that he had been ordered, recommended and that the Railway Agency had come up with – measures for 570 million. in addition to the State budget adopted last year. 370 million measures. kr was high priority, and 270 million. kr were the recommendations and instructions he had received from the Railway Authority or the Åsta Commission. What is the Railway Agency getting? They get 21.7 million. kr in fresh money. Then they're told to re-prioritize 80 million. kr from maintenance and investments to use on safety. They're going to spend 100 million. kr for safety, most of it re-prioritised, despite orders and recommendations of 270 million. DKK and priority measures of 370 million. kr. I'm pissed, but I'm not surprised. I remember so well the serious men who said last year that it would not be on political will to increase railway safety. Last year I said that I was afraid that they would do that by re-prioritizing from other rail purposes. Yes, the little thing that happens now comes through re-priorities – not by giving the railway a lift. Criticizing the NSB and the Railway Agency is easy, but doing the job we're assigned to doesn't make this hall. The best transport safety work we can do is to strengthen the railway and take transport from road to road. For the railway is the safest form of transport, and we're going to make it even safer. And what I'm afraid of is that the best thing can be the enemy of good. If they are now going to spend all the money on the railway or a lot of it on safety work on the rail, but not on raising the railway, the railway will lose its weight on transport. And then we get a lower transport safety, because the railway is the safest form of transport today. But we're going to do it even better. The result of the grip of the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy is as follows: Most safety measures cannot be put into practice – measures that are partly imposed and recommended by the Åsta Commission, the State Railway Authority and through the Railway Agency’s own safety review. In order to address the re-priorities, the Railway Agency has immediately withdrawn all available investment funds and stopped any conclusion of contracts on the operational and maintenance budget. That is the consequence of the policy of the Government and the bulk of the population. On the road side, we are sometimes willing to spend billions building four-field highways with midpoints to avoid the meeting accidents. Here you are not willing to spend a few hundred million dollars to take a lift to improve the safety of the entire Norwegian railway network. At the same time, the number of committees has so little propriety that they write in the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, will stress the need for adequate resources to be allocated to the railway so as to maintain a high level of safety.’ This is done through internal priorities and it is not to provide ‘sufficient resources’. They do not get enough resources to do the jobs they think are necessary and that also the Åsta Commission and the Railway Authority think are necessary. Had I had long enough speaking time, I would have asked for a minute's silence over the death of propriety, but it is too short yet. But it's not too late. Revised in the morning, and extraordinary group meetings in the morning can be cleaned up early. But optimism is not great. Now I'm going to admit that I'm not in the comment that an almost unanimous committee has about the double track in Sande, because I didn't understand what that remark meant. I assume that neither the Railway Agency nor anyone else has any desire to delay the use of this track. On the other hand, the Right Representative here said that he could not see what the Christian People's Party had done to speed up the work. But at least I know that the Right has done its best in several budgetary conciliations to prevent and delay the work on rail investment. So for public purchases. We're now getting an increase in public purchases. It is necessary to maintain the offer and not to increase prices too much. At the same time, however, I would like to stress again that public purchases in Norway are low. It's like that, for example. in Germany, the public pays two thirds of the train tickets. They do that down in Bavaria, the state there, and they're not particularly radical and progressive, not very green either. But they do it because they think it's a proper priority. SV presents again – and I repeat what I said in the previous debate – a proposal this morning on zero VAT for public transport, with the right to deduct input VAT. It will strengthen the NSB as a transport company as well as this increased public purchase. So it's a good suggestion that you can address at extraordinary group meetings in the morning early and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2215	You can be tempted to take the proposition and take a review and make comments to the different projects, but I don't intend to do that. When it comes to most road projects mentioned in the proposal, the Left is in the majority and supports them. When it comes to totality, we are probably some of the proposals that lie there. I first want to say something about youth cards, because when you've been with and fight for youth cards in Hordaland – there's something called "except a noble" – it's exciting to see what the government is going to do in the budget, and if you get a youth card that hits and makes our youth travel more collectively. I can show you what will happen tomorrow with the revised budget, where one has been given a boost for more means of racial protection. That's what I think is good. But as many people have been involved, we are also concerned about what is now happening to the Railway Agency, that they need to re-prioritize resources from infrastructure and put them into security. We also have proposals tomorrow to fix this with at least 40 million. kr. I am also pleased that one has now stated that Tatra is fully funded and that there will be a split with the Ministry of Environment. And I'm glad that the piece that the Ministry of the Environment is in is getting bigger than it was originally supposed to be. So I want to say a little bit about the catamaran ferries. It's a very exciting project when we're going to go inside and join and develop new ferry types. In the left hand side, we see little reason to limit this attempt to only build a ferry. We want to keep an open connection to which this ferry type will be used. But one can also build more. So a little bit to the Valdres course. There is now a great interest in getting them to a project using a national tourist train. There are a lot of people who then refer to the Flåmsbanen and talk about it being so successful. Yeah, the Flåmsban is a success. There's a lot of work to do. They can go and look at what's happening on the Runway, and learn from it, and then get started, but I think – and I want to point out, as many people have done – that there is a need for a quick clarification to get the operating company going. I would also like to remind you that the maintenance and operation of Valdresbanen must be taken by this company. So to Document No. The 8 proposal applies to Teldsund. I am pleased that the Government has at least determined that the Swedish Aviation Agency’s training centre should be co-located with Norway’s Fire School. A decision was taken in 1998. I thought it took a very long time to implement it. One sit in the left again with a little feeling that there's someone who hasn't wanted to do this, and who's been holding back a little bit. It's already spent 12.5 million. kr in order to facilitate this. There are resources for planning and design, there have been a lot of meetings, and one has sewn together different cost options – and suddenly there will be a stop. And we think that's a very bad thing. We hope that when you go in and look at this project, you can also see if there is anything you can cut down on when it comes to costs. But the left is at least that they have tried from Norway's Fire School side to reach far to find common solutions that are reasonable and good. We believe that this co-location will provide a good professional benefit. We're not some of the comments that Right has about what goes on the professional content. It's a good professional environment, and not everyone needs to go down to the Gardermoen, and not all within the Aviation Agency are located in this part of Norway. There are a lot of people who come from other parts of the country, and who might think it's fun to get up to Teldensund. So we look forward with excitement to the budget proposition, and we in the Left will support this project. So we went to the State Road Service Production Department. There has been a debate today on division of tasks, and there is a proposal from most parties – I have not been followed by the debate, so I don't know if the Labour Party has joined – that the whole matter of organising the State Road Service is going back to Stortinget. It's not just to pick out the production department, it's to get the integrity of this and a total review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2238	As the rapporteur for aviation matters, I have to say something about it now. Aviation oversight considers that there is a need for an increase in crews from 140 to 155 annual works to cover the oversight tasks assigned to it. I would like to point out that as politicians we cannot go in and in-depth control of the Air Safety Authority, but I allow myself to put a little question mark on such a large increase in staff as the Air Safety Authority is now asking for. This does not mean, of course, that the Workers' Party is not concerned with safety. It is generally the responsibility of passengers to feel safe about air transport and, of course, inspections must be able to handle the tasks assigned to them. However, a unanimous committee says that the Committee will be ‘retrospected by a possible proposal to extend the staffing of the Air Traffic Authority’. At the time of the establishment of the Air Safety Authority, it was provided for approx. 120 employees, and the Committee also wrote that it provided that this work should be carried out in order to keep costs down. For me, it's important to make sure that we use our resources effectively. It is absolutely necessary that the Air Safety Authority also has staff with the necessary aviation qualifications, such as pilots or air traffic controllers, in order to strengthen the operational activities. It must not be that only management and administration are strengthened. I therefore want to be very restrained by an increase in staff to the Air Safety Authority. The Ministry has proposed to assign the new fire and rescue training centre to Teldensund, and a unanimous committee agrees to this. There is therefore reason to congratulate Tjeldsund in Northern Ireland on this decision today. The Ministry points out that there is a need for an investment of 30 million. kr, and mention that the annual operating costs of the Aviation Agency are intended to increase slightly in relation to the operation on Trandum. And then the majority have pointed to the difficult economic situation the Aviation Agency is in. The Aviation Agency needs to make large investments in many airports in the future, and we must therefore not burden the Aviation Agency’s economy so that it has problems with the investments needed to ensure the safety of our many airports. Of course, this has nothing to do with the establishment of the fire and rescue training centre in Teldensund, because it is both correct and necessary. The government is engaged in relocating state jobs, and this government is following its promises. Teldsund is a great place, and I am sure that the professional knowledge of fire and rescue services is well maintained there. In the end, I will send a small greeting to my party traps and to the school's management that they have given good information about the qualifications of the school. I want to be happy with the important task they have now received.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2260	I'll try to be brief. First of all, the representative, Inge Myrvoll, presented a challenge to the other representatives of the Committee in view of a critical attitude towards the Air Safety Authority, and I can very much agree with Mr Myrvoll's comments. From the Christian People's Party I just want to briefly signal that we are concerned that there should be efficiency and a high level of service in the Aviation Agency, but that we now think that there is every reason to stress that one should be restrained in relation to increasing staffing. Furthermore, we are pleased that the situation at Honningsvåg airport will be fully reviewed during the autumn of 2001 and that a final decision will be taken on upgrading in the context of the general work on the regional airport structure. As regards the establishment of the fire and rescue training centre in Tjeldsund, Northernland, I will join in what the representative May Britt Vihovde said. She was also the initiator of Document No. The 8-proposal, which has probably helped to bring forward this matter, which we have now been very much waiting for to be dealt with by the Stortinget. Then it is gratifying that in probably three years, in 2004, we can open new road and tunnel on the Osen–Korgen route on E6 in Northernland. The need for better accessibility on this route is not one of concern, and an overall committee has wanted to launch this project. So it has happened that the plan situation for Lofast is not clear, and 25 million. kr has been transferred to Osen-Korgen, in line with that envisaged by the majority of the population. The joy is that we get started earlier with Osen-Korgen. But when that is said, in the Christian People's Party, we cannot agree with what the Government suggested in the proposition that Lofast should only be launched in 2003. The representative, Røtweg, said that Lofoten’s continental connection should start as soon as the planning situation is resolved. Minister of Transport Terje Moe Gustavsen has on several occasions expressed the same in meeting journalists on their way to North Norway. Then there is the question of whether we can rely on it when the same year, as we were presented in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan, goes on and that the mainland connection of the Lofoten will only start in 2003. I would like to present a challenge to the Minister of Transport that he makes clear in his statement what is really meant by starting up the mainland connection of Lofoten as soon as possible. This means that some money needs to be put into the 2001 budget, so that any launch can be carried out effectively once the planning situation is resolved. I hope that we can get a clarification on that in the Minister's posts here. Then it's positive, as also the representative Myrvoll had in mind, that Firehøllia outside of Mo in Rana is now going to get a solution and repair, and that a strongly rascal distance is going to be safer to travel on. Finally, I want to comment on it with the Youth Card. The government has started to design a nationwide youth card scheme, and that's good. It is also good that it is already in the budget for the autumn. I would like to point out that in large parts of the country there is a limited collective offer. For many high school students in District Norway, the school bus will be the main part of the collective service. In Oslo and Akershus, a youth card will provide unparalleled opportunities. It is therefore important to take these differences into account when designing the plan. I would also like to stress that the Christian People's Party sees it as important to stimulate more young people to choose collective forms of transport. Therefore, we aim to allow all students and students under the age of 30 to travel at half price by collective means of transport. This will not replace the Youth Card scheme, but it will help to help a larger group to take the collective means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2279	After the tragic accident in Åsta and following the recommendations of the then lowered Groth Commission, we have all probably gained a somewhat stronger awareness of safety measures on the railway network and what measures can be taken to increase safety. So there's a majority to spend more than 100 million dollars. kr to increased safety measures on the Railway Agency’s budget for the current year. Eighty million. kr is re-priorities to the adopted budget, and 21,7 million. is therefore additional appropriations. It is clear that it would have been desirable to avoid taking the 80 million on re-priorities, but the budget for the current year has been adopted, and the revised budget is – as it is called – a revision of the budget. In addition, I would like to add that we also strengthen the Railway Authority's budget by 7 million. kr. When we adopted the state budget before Christmas, it was set at 987 million. kr for the purchase of transport services from the NSB. We know that the agreement between the department and the NSB had not been negotiated, so Stortinget raised the same amount as last year, but at the same time said that one should return to Stortinget when the agreement was concluded, and the government asked to assume that the train production would continue in 2000, and that the increase in the price would not increase beyond the general price increase from 1 January. The agreement was signed later in the new year. This means that we need $1215 million. in order to bring the agreement into line with the assumptions laid down by the Stortinget. So that means you need 228 million. in addition to what was decided by the Storting in the December budget procedure. With the increase to the Railway Agency and the Railway Authority, this sums up to an overall increase for rail purposes of more than 250 million. kr. In any case, I find it hard to understand that this can be presented as a cut in rail transfers – a quarter of a billion in total is the increase. I am also pleased that in the negotiated agreement between the department and the NSB, the much-mentioned and extra charge that has been paid on NSB's trains through the sports of Rome is finally removed. People have paid an extra NOK 250 on their monthly card and an extra NOK 7 – if I am not mistaken – on the single ticket to drive a train through the sports of Rome. This has resulted in a great deal of noise and heavy costs of charging the fees and heavy protests from travellers, because many of the travellers who have not received much improved travel offers and reductions in travel time have also had to pay the fee. It is gratifying that the Government arranges for this, and that this fee disappeared earlier this summer for all travellers with their NSB trains through the Roman sport. Then I must be allowed to say a few words about something more have been affected, and that is the discussion about the Valdresbanen. If people had listened to us from the outside, they could have actually been given the impression that we are going to decide whether the railway traffic on the Valdres Railway is going to be shut down or not. Putting down passenger traffic on Valdres is a decision made at the end of the 1980s. Freight traffic went correctly to Dokka until two years ago. But on the route across the Dokka, there has been no organized rail transport since, with the exception of some tourist trains. The majority say that one now goes in to free the route between Dokka and Leira for other rail purposes. And one also says that on the route between Bjørgo and Leira, the railway is to be demolished. After all, a railway friend does not applaud the demolition of rail passages on old routes. But here we have to stick our finger in the ground and admit that there will never be any railway traffic again on the Valdresbahn. Last year, there was not a single tourist train on Valdresbanen, and the year before, it went as far as I know a single tourist train on Valdresbanen. We can't live any longer in that notion that we're going to get some organized rail traffic going on the Valdresbahn. After hearing the debate both in this case and in the previous case, we have big enough challenges on the rest of our network if we are not going to start resuming discussions about starting rail traffic on routes on which passenger traffic was closed 10-15 years ago. In addition, we are in the situation in Aurdal that there is local desire to tear up the railway and to build the pedestrian and bicycle roads, as the railway on several routes is almost parallel to the E16, but it has not been possible to do so. The schoolchildren walk on dangerous road traffic, the railway is unspoiled. Now we tear it up so that the kids can get safe schooling. And then we all admit that there's never going to be any organized railway traffic again on the Valdres Railway. Valdresbane is history – we have to admit that. In recent years, Valdres has received significant transport investments in the form of the Oslo-Bergen tribal road decision, which was implemented by Valdres. If a question is asked the people, they may not claim that there has been significant investment on the road, but something has happened then, in addition to the fact that Valdres has its own airport. And with all due respect for the people of Valdres: it is limited how much people of Valdres can travel by road, rail and air. At least railway traffic is no longer on Valdresbahn. Finally, I have to replenish a little back to the co-representative Kofoed-Larsen. She said something like this in her post that it was the initiative of the centre parties to clean up old environmental sins, and she said so when she spoke about the new bridge to Tautra to replace the old molo that lay there and blocked the flow in the fjord. In all respects, the initiative was taken in 1996–97 before the central government joined. That initiative was taken by the then county rapporteur in Nord-Trøndelag, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the Minister for the Environment named Thorbjørn Berntsen and the Minister for Transport, Sissel Rønbeck. And as far as I know, neither of these three represent any center party. As Kofoed-Larsen may be familiar with the quote that one should not want his neighbour's property, I think it was a little over the edge to take on the fathership of the initiative to clean up the issues of Tautra.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2296	This budgetary round is not intended by the Government to be a full revision of the budget for the current year. This is also the basis for the Government's proposals on budgetary changes in the Ministry of Transport. I am referring to the fact that the Government has proposed increased appropriations for the follow-up to the recommendations of the Åsta Commission, the final purchase agreement for 2001 with NSB BA and the revision of the budget for aviation purposes. The Government's proposals are within an overall framework and in accordance with the arrangements of the budgetary policy for the current period adopted by the Stortinget. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority of the Government's proposals on supplementary appropriations. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the premises underlying the negotiated agreement on the purchase of passenger services from NSB BA. The agreement implies a continuation of the 2000 offer, adjusted for changes due to the lack of drivers. In the contract amount of 1215 million. kr is, among other things, taken into account the removal of the Supplement for traffic through the sport of Rome and the start of train services on the Arendalsbahnen and Bratsbergbahnen from summer 2001. In addition to pre-established compensation services by bus, there will also be a bus offer on the Lillehammer-Dombås route. Railway safety work is a long-term and continuous process. This work must and must be of high priority in order for the railway to regain public confidence. Security must therefore be based on all the priorities of the annual government budgets. In this context, I have mainly chosen to give priority to the main measures that will also have a short-term impact. In view of the greater and more extensive measures, I will return to the further follow-up to the recommendations of the Åsta Commission and the rest of the safety work on the railway in connection with the submission of the State budget for 2002. I would also refer to the treatment given to these questions in connection with the national transport plan. I have noticed that the majority of the committee assumes that the new double-track tracks at Sande on the Vestfold track will be completed without further delay. I fully agree that the situation that has arisen is very unfortunate. The background that the parcels have not been put into service is among other things. the documentation of the new signalling and protection system has not been good enough from the system vendor. Without this documentation, the State Railway Authority will not be able to approve the new installation. In addition to undermining the Authority of the Railway Authority in its field of competence, any accelerated operation of the route at the initiative of the Ministry would also lead to an undocumented increase in the risk of running trains on the route. In addition to stressing that it is very unfortunate that it has always been postponed to use the plant, I do not think it is right as Minister of Transport to review the safety professional judgements made by the professional authorities in this matter. The railway station is now working to enable the Sande thoroughfare to be used from approx. 1 October 2001, but this date too is unfortunately uncertain. Developments in aviation have shown failure in relation to the original budget allocation for 2001. This means that the available investment framework of the Swedish Aviation Agency for 2001 will be lower than previously foreseen. In the audit of the Aviation Agency’s budget, the Government has focused on prioritising safety-related actions rather than more capacity-based actions. This can be seen, among other things. through the prioritisation of work on the replacement of flight control systems at Sola, Flesland, Værnes and Bodø. The government is emphasising the localisation of public activities outside the central eastern region. The proposal to establish a new training centre for the Aviation Fire and Rescue Service in Teldsund is part of this policy. The measure will entail investment and operating costs, as referred to in the proposal. With the treatment given today, there is no doubt that the fire and rescue training centre will be added to Teldensund. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee assumes that the measure must not impose any additional financial burden on the Aviation Agency. I have registered that the majority of the Committee on Finance, when dealing with the Government's proposal on supplementary appropriations and re-priorities in the State budget, is proposing to increase the funding for racial protection in 2001 by 70 million. kr. This will be followed up by the Government. The Road Directorate is already identifying the projects concerned. Finally, some words about Lofast. We have said in the proposition that there will be start-up of Lofast when there has been a plan clearance. It is likely to happen in 2003. I expect the representative Sahl and I to agree that it is important and right to provide correct information about the planning process, even if you wish it could go faster. I would like to stress that if it were to go faster than that, it is my intention that start-up might take place earlier than 2003. In any case, I would say that even if the representative Sahl really wanted it, there is no disagreement between us on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2317	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2320	I want to spend some time on something that has engaged young people throughout the country for years, namely youth cards and cheap collective solutions for young people. Today we can read in the Newspaper that public transport will not increase compared to the private car in the next 20 years. It's pretty gloomy reading. Increasing car traffic costs society considerable amounts each year, not least damage both our emissions and our natural interventions. A real commitment to public transport is an important factor in limiting the growth of car traffic. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has now decided to introduce a nationwide system of discounts on youth collective travel. This could provide a cheap and environmentally friendly alternative to a car for young people who currently have low paying capacity. Already today, many of the counties of the country have introduced discount schemes, such as: Youth cards, and they have proved to work well. In most countries, young people themselves have been the determining factor for the implementation of the schemes. A great deal of commitment around this shows that young people will drive collectively if it is facilitated, and we see today a tendency for more and more young people to choose exactly this form of transport, and that there is a decrease in the number of young people taking driving licences. A form of discount scheme can help provide young people with transport habits that allow them to choose collective solutions rather than private cars to an even greater extent than they do today. We travel more often and over longer distances than before, and there's no reason to believe that this development is going to turn around with the first. That's why it's important that we now manage to change people's transport habits, so that more people will choose environmentally friendly solutions, such as trains and buses, instead of cars. We can't do this unilaterally by imposing restrictions on car use, but we want to give people an alternative that's so good that they see the value of choosing it. In this way, the Government's proposal to give young people some form of youth card is a very important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2331	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 26 and 27. [[Fotation, see page 3941]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2344	It is to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2351	A total of 45 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Erna Solberg, on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Central Party, 6-8, by Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Right proposal No. 9, by Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party the proposals No. 10-12, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 13-17, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 18 and 19, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 20, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 21 and 22, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 23-29, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 30-33, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 34-38, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 39 to 43, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 44, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 45, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party, Center Party and Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1–43 is included on pages 67–69 of the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. The President noted that the proposals No. 6-8 in the event of an error is listed under proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre Party. So they're from the Christian People's Party and the Right. Mr Eriksen has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2413	It concerns proposal No. 45, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party, Center Party and Socialist Left Party. The Labour Party will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2418	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39, 41, 42 and 43, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The budget of the Government is requested by the Government for 2002 to present a plan for the reduction of the abstinence of sickness and care needs and the reduction of the own-payments in kindergartens and SFOs.’.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The measure empowers the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to allocate 4 240 million. 2002 crowns. The funds are proposed over the top. 571 Framework grants to municipalities and cap. 572 Framework grants to county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to base the pilot schemes with transport aid that the scheme should grant an unconditional right to transport aid to those who fulfil the conditions.It shall not be taken into account whether the aid granted to the individual before receiving a car benefit or whether, in any case, the grant to the individual may exceed the pension payment.The proportion must not exceed the collective interest’.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up the grant for public transport to the county so that the grant rate over the next four years approaches 50 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2453	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Assistances to investments and activity related to the older reform are adjusted for price increases incurred since the start-up.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2469	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 44, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2472	President! Proposal No. 36 must be moved. Proposal No. 45 replaces proposal No. Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2479	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has withdrawn proposal No. 36, and there will be a vote on the other proposals of the Central Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a plan for restoring the financial balance of the local government sector with objectives of net operating surplus of 3 pst.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to cancel the total county deficit of 1 300 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to organise the establishment of Youth Councils by all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: «As an immediate measure to restore the financial balance of the municipalities, the government is asking the government to incorporate a 12 billion indebtedness plan. crowns in the State budget until the harvest.» Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The exceptional discretion is maintained until the cost key is adjusted to counteract unacceptable losses incurred by individual municipalities when the loss compensation is removed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2515	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30, 32 and 33, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The free income of the local government sector is increased by 4 billion. 2002 kroner in addition to the Government’s proposal.’.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The operating grant shall be included in the framework grant to the municipalities once the reform has been implemented.’;» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the conversions in the income system implemented from 1997 and to present them in the Municipal Proposition for 2003’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2541	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget deficit asks the Government to compensate for the one-off expenditure related to the removal of the 8-G break point for pension calculations in 2002’.» This is where the Left has notified its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2557	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–29, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for health, care and education services to the State.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to add the earmarked grants to the old-age plan into the framework of the municipality.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the basic grant to the municipalities in the general population grant.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the State grant rate for the construction of hospitalisation sites by NOK 300000 per year. the space.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Stortinget with models of how municipalities experiencing strong migration can demonstrate the migration of the population grant from the time the migration actually took place.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to include the Nord-Norway grant in the general population grant over a period of four years.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to include the regional grant in the general population grant over a period of four years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2604	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set aside 200 million. the amount of the special item of a temporary grant to compensate for the additional burden in the social sector in the larger cities that the concentration of drug/psychiatry problems poses. The resources are broken down by size of population between cities with more than 50000 inhabitants.’» The left has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2620	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The real growth in the income of the local government sector from 2001 to 2002 shall be 4 billion. crowns.’» The left has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2636	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to compensate the municipalities for the salary settlement in 2000’.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘Top government funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services where all expenditure exceeds SEK 600 000 per year. user is covered by the State.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2657	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The counties are granted the right to individual negotiations with the State on compensation for the transfer of ownership to the hospitals. The Government shall submit to the Storting any budgetary implications of such negotiations.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The allocation key for grants to agricultural offices is retained unchanged.’ The left has announced its support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2681	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 17, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The 14 municipalities that received an increase in the employer’s fee from 1 January 2000 are reimbursed 100 pst. of its increased costs.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of climate as a criterion in the cost keys of the municipalities and municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2702	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A top-level funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. Municipalities pay a dividend of NOK 600 000. The state pays 80 pst. in addition to this, the costs.’» The Progress Party, the Socialist Left and the Left will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2718	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users, with a significant municipal proportion. It is appropriate to facilitate the implementation of such a scheme from 2003 onwards.» The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced their subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2734	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «Communities that have received loss compensation through the extraordinary discretionary grant and that will lose the right to compensation for losses above NOK 40 when the income system changes from 2002 because the municipality passes a tax income of 110 pst. by the national average, partial compensation shall be granted through the discretionary means, if they do not come into a difficult economic situation.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the gradual phasing-out of the regional grant for those municipalities that pass 3000 inhabitants in line with an increased population grant. The income of municipalities needs to be increased so that they are able to meet the needs of the increased population.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2755	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State asks the Government to assess whether there is a need to introduce its own metropolitan grant into which the capital grant is incorporated.’ The left has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2771	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The grant for church activities is not included in the framework grant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2785	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring proceedings with the necessary legislative changes so that the company tax again falls to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The School Leisure Scheme is included in the framework transfers from 1 August 2001 in line with the Stortingen decision during the course of the Innst process. S. No 252 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2806	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The grant for camp schools is included in the framework transfers in line with the decision of the Stortinge during the process of Innst. S. No 252 [[1999 - 2000]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for further work to be done on how the growth costs can be incorporated into the Criterion System in line with comments from the Christian People’s Party and the Right of the Inn. [[2000-2001]] S. No 326 to the 2002 Municipal Proposition, and return with a review and proposals in the 2003 Municipal Proposition.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The population contribution shall be based on the population and population composition per. 1 October of the previous year.’ This is where the Left has notified its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2834	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The measure empowers the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to allocate 4 440 million. 2002 crowns. The funds are proposed over the top. 571 Framework grants to municipalities and cap. 572 Framework grants to county municipalities.’ The left has announced its support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2850	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Communes of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik shall be compensated by exceptional means of discretion for the loss of basic grants for 3 years.’; The left has also announced its support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2866	Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to enter into negotiations with each county municipality on the settlement of the property stock and the level of the extraction of the county operating costs in line with the guidance given in the sub-chapter’s remark. 2.2.2 of the Innst. S. No 326.An arbitration mechanism is established for the final determination of settlement where no agreement is reached in thenegotiations.» The left has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2887	Proposal No. 45, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Centers and the Left Party of Socialists, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be able to make commitments in 2001 for the construction of up to 2000 units organised for the care and care of good luck beyond the agreed framework. Grants shall not be disbursed until 2002 in such a way as not to affect the budget for 2001.’.» Here, too, the Workers' Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2938	The President assumes that the Right and the Advance Party want to vote against. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e2953	During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4-11, by Erna Solberg, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, 12 and 13, by Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 14, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 15 and 16, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 17-19, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 20, by Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposal No. 21, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 19 is included on page 41 of the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 1 and 2 converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government transfer responsibility for investment and maintenance of highways to the counties.’ And proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government integrate the road offices into the state’s affairs so that we can have a common transport and vegetate.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 21, from the left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure, through the reorganisation, that national policies in the areas of nature protection and land management are implemented.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3011	Proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a major review of the environmental and nature protection legislation in order to strengthen national policy and responsibility for the environment and nature.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw the funds for public transport from the general framework transfers. The funds are put into a framework transfer where collective funds, investment funds, operation and maintenance on highways and county roads and the purchase of regional and local train services are transferred together to the county as a sum. Full freedom shall be granted to the county of priority within the framework.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for the decentralisation of the SND County Office to the new county municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3035	Proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the coordination of the competence reform with the county council.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the transfer of Aetat’s tasks in terms of highlighting competences, training and action activities to the county.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3056	Proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the right of initiative and the right of objection of the State to land issues, including plans and safeguards relating to the transfer of responsibilities for environmental and agricultural matters to the county. In the case of agriculture, this right will also have to cover land law and concession law.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3072	Proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set minimum requirements for municipalities and county councils to have the necessary agricultural competence in the implementation of the reform.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set minimum requirements for municipalities and county councils to have environmental competence in the implementation of the reform.’ This is where the Center Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3095	Proposals Nos. 4-11, from the Right and Advance Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate trials where municipalities which it wishes can assume responsibility for public transport and related funds.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to implement a reform with the winding-up of the county.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the municipal law that allow municipalities to choose to outsource the audit work in the municipality to private audit firms.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asked the Government to carry out a restatement of the local accounting policy towards a profit and loss-oriented accounting and budgetary management. Further work should also be carried out in some municipalities with the conversion of accounting principles.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the mandate of the Plan Law Committee so that a new part of the Planning and Building Act is based on the termination of the County Planning Act.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop proposals in which individual municipalities and inter-municipal cooperation bodies are given the role of regional development manager, and thus the instruments assigned to the county council in relation to regional economic development.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make practical efforts to entrust the county municipality’s tasks to the municipalities and to terminate the county municipality if a majority of the population and municipalities in a state wish to participate in such an experiment.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to agree to attempts by municipalities to assume responsibility for secondary schools whose individual municipalities wish to do so.’ Here the President will draw attention to a correction in proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox The word ‘proposal’ in the first line shall be ‘try’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3149	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a regional policy strategy for the Labour Market Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3165	Proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left Party, are taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to present the organisation of the State Road Service for Stortinget as its own case.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3173	The Labour Party shall vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3193	The President assumes that the Labour Party wishes to vote against – it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3223	During the debate, Ivar Østberg, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain TKT district as today’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3415	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen, presented the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to sell the property Birkelid at market prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3442	I voted in favour of voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3449	Then the correct numbers are 65 votes for the vote and 33 votes for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3456	During the debate, Mr Alstad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the following proposals: ‘Document No. 8:100 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3480	There is a vote in favour of the proposal by Mr Ola T. Lånke, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, sent from the Odelsting meeting on 29 May 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate a review of the rules and practices applicable to sterilisation adoptions, including the assessment of stricter criteria for the rules applicable to such adoptions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3497	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 29 May 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for necessary legislative changes ensuring lesbian and gay rights to be assessed as adoption parents.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3507	I shall vote against the transmission of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3514	The President's proposal was then adopted against one vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3521	The vote will take place on the proposal by Ms Anne Enger Lahnstein, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and Mr Inger Stolt-Nielsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. ‘The size asks the Government to continue to work on the current percentage model as a basis for the calculation of child contributions. The following principle is taken into account:- A significant degree of involvement gives the right to reduce the contribution.- Where the beneficiary benefits significantly better than the contributor or has a low contribution capacity, contributions may be calculated on a discretionary basis by taking into account the contribution capacity of the contributor.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3539	I should have voted against it. I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3546	The proposal was then rejected by 82 votes to 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3554	The vote will take place on the proposal by Ms Anne Enger Lahnstein, on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and Mr Inger Stolt-Nielsen, on behalf of Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government take the initiative on a low-threshold offer where families in crisis as a result of a break in life may receive financial advice and guidance in relation to conflict management.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3568	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, represented by Mr Per Sandberg, on a proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out an in-depth assessment of the provisions on divided residence when the Children’s Act is revised.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3582	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, represented by Mr Per Sandberg, on a proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide the Storting with several alternative models for the collection of travel expenses for journeys between parents’ homes.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3596	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2001: ‘The size asks the Government not to include the accommodation costs of the beneficiary in the calculation key for the calculation of child contribution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3613	There is a vote on the Per Sandberg proposal on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess/estimate the consequences of maintaining the tax deduction on the part of the contributor and not to be taxed on the part of the recipient.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3630	There is a vote on the Per Sandberg proposal on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw Section 12 of the draft regulation on the determination and modification of the foetal stock.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3647	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, represented by Mr Per Sandberg, on a proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2001. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is advised to base SIFO’s ‘gross operating benefits’ on the basis of the calculation basis of the contribution’. The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3665	The party of progress wants to vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3732	In the course of the debate, Mr Ruggtvedt tabled three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Mr Rugtvedt has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3737	I would ask that the motions Nos. 1 and 2 are converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3742	Under this condition, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left can support proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3749	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, by the Socialist Left Party, is changed to transmission proposals at the request of the proposers. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government work for an international moratorium on the production, sale and use of class bombs which can be compared in effect with anti-personnel mines.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended to the Government to make proposals in NATO to distance the organisation from the use of class bombs.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide active support for international work which could lead to a ban on class bombs, in line with the ban on anti-personnel mines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3778	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3785	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3792	Then we'll take the vote one more time for safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3795	The Labour Party will vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3849	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Roadway charge for goods on rail is terminated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3870	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the vote I and the proposal from the Right and the Party of Advancement. The proposal from the Right and the Advance Party reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell NSB BA’s shares in Flytoget AS to private stakeholders.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3932	The opinion of the Committee item 1 is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3941	The recommendation of the Committee items 2 to 4 shall be addressed to voting. The President assumes that the Right and the Advance Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3954	The setting point 5 of the Committee is addressed to voting. The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3980	Mrs Solberg has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3987	I have to ask that we are allowed to go back to voting in case no. 6th@item: inlistbox My dear associate Lars Sponheim now claims that I voted incorrectly. And since I was both the proposer and made contributions to the proposal that then fell by a little margin, and as I am uncertain whether it was I who actually voted incorrectly, I would ask that we take the vote on case No. 6 again. It's late in the evening, but it would be okay if what the Storting actually wants is what comes out through the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14-2.ana.ud140e3992	Is there anyone who disagrees that we are going back and taking the vote on case no. 6 again? – It's not, and then we start voting again. The President will then refer again to the proposals made by Mr Alstad on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left: ‘Document No. 8:100 [[2000-2001]]
