ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e44	The representative Einar Steensnæs, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder province: Dagrun Eriksen For the County of Buskerud: Gerd Johnsen For Hedmark County: Sondre Nordsdordet and Helge Bjørnsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve For the Nordic region: Arvid Falch For the Rogaland State: Unn Aarrestad Four permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the sick leave of the representative Lodve Solholm from 4 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the European People's Party on the sick leave of the representative Vallerd Svarstad Haugland from 4 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Christian People's Party on the leave of the representative Lars Rise from 4 April to 6 April to take part in a study trip to India from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson on the leave of days 5 and 6 April to take part in a meeting under the direction of the World Bank in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Einar HolstadFor More and Romesdal County: Gerd FlatsetFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine S. TornåsFor Rogaland County: Olaf Gedrem3. Ann Kathrine S. Tornås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e139	Einar Holstad, Gerd Flatset and Ann Kathrine S. Tornås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e144	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e149	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e154	Kjell Engebertsen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann are considered unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e162	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e166	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to propose to extend the investigation commission to assess the conditions of the North Sea dive in the pioneer season with a new member who will have diving competence, and to give the North Sea dive alliance an observer status in the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e171	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e174	I allow myself to propose financial compensation to former private shareholders who were cancelled in the context of the banking crisis. And on behalf of Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, I allow myself to make proposals to exempt companies that become subject to VAT on 1 July 2001, from the investment tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e181	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e184	I allow myself to make proposals to introduce a regular and mandatory health study of girls from the cultural environments that practice female genital mutilation, and to introduce criminal liability for the parents of the girls who are subjected to sexual mutilation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e189	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e192	I have the pleasure on behalf of Øyvind Korsberg and myself to propose to exempt driving schools from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e197	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e212	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne Kristin Sydne State Council Siri Bjerke State Council Hanne Harlem The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e231	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The United States has said no to the Kyoto agreement. The Progress Party is very pleased because the Kyoto Agreement is based on a sound scientific basis. Nor does the Climate Panel take into account researchers who have other theories on why climate change is taking place. There are also several researchers who question the predictions of the climate panel. It is an agreement that will annually cost the state and industry billions in the few countries that intend to implement the agreement. The profiled director of CICERO, the Climate Research Centre, Knut Alfsen, believes that the Kyoto agreement must be thrown into the scrapheap. Will the Council of State follow Alfsen's vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e240	The scientific basis for international climate work is becoming increasingly clear. That is why I am pleased that only the Progress Party in this Chamber is so strongly in favour of the basis on which international cooperation is based. Now we are experiencing a setback in cooperation by the fact that the United States has raised doubts as to whether it is right to continue the work on the Kyoto Protocol. The costs of international climate action will be recovered in ten times if we get good international instruments in place. The Kyoto Protocol is therefore the framework with which it would be right to move forward in order to achieve international climate cooperation. We are therefore prepared from the Norwegian side to use what we have to do to get the United States and other countries back to work on obtaining international commitments, so that all countries can start implementing the commitments they have made under the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e247	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that only the Progress Party in this Chamber is against the Kyoto agreement. But it is with some pleasure that I record that there are others outside this hall who share our vision. The National Association of Process Industries believes that Norway and Europe cannot now go further, as a new situation has arisen with regard to distortions of competition. And it is quite strange that Norway and perhaps some other countries in Europe should take on the commitments to solve what are known as climate problems. The situation is now, it seems pretty stuck in the decision of the United States, and I think that's pretty good. After all, the Council of State has announced that there will be a roll-out of action in climate policy. Will the Council of State promote that communication? And will the Council of State take industry on board as a new situation has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e258	I will continue to work on that message, and the Government will promote it. And, of course, I want to keep in close contact with important environments in Norway, including: industry, during the preparation of that notification. It is true that it may now appear that there is a fixed situation. Nevertheless, there has been a lot of activity among the countries participating in the international climate change process in recent days. It's also from the American team expressed willingness to move on in discussions. Last night I had a telephone meeting with representatives of the U.S. administration. Also from the United States, there is a confirmation of an interest in further discussions, based on the Kyoto Protocol and the UNFCCC.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e265	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e268	The fact that the Progress Party in Norway is ready to play with the environment is hardly surprising. The American President's willingness to do the same has aroused legitimate indignation. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment has now fallen off, is in a more constructive phase and has now also made contact with the US administration to try and get the negotiations back on track. We also know that the European Union is actively working to get the Americans back and come up with concrete measures. My question is whether closer cooperation with the EU in the Kyoto negotiations has now been considered from the Norwegian side. It is a well-known case that Norway and the EU have had slightly different positions earlier in the negotiations, but the question is whether there has not now been a new situation that suggests that Norway should again consider starting closer cooperation with the EU in order to gain control of greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e277	Like a whole world, we Norwegians reacted strongly to the signals of President Bush and American teams related to climate work. That is why we have worked so hard these weeks to do what we can to get the negotiations back in place. We have done this both directly to the US authorities, and we have also done so to a large extent in contact with the EU and the EU countries. In particular, we have had contact with the European Commission and the Nordic EU countries. In addition to spring, we will further strengthen contact with the EU. I can also mention that yesterday I had conversations with other countries in the so-called umbrella group, among others. Canada, New Zealand and Japan, who also strongly want to hold the Kyoto Protocol as a framework for negotiations – so the next important opportunity will be a meeting in New York on 21 April, where both EU countries and other countries will be represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e284	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e288	Norway is today the second largest oil exporter in the world, and the oil is very important for the Norwegian economy. Action based on a potentially ratified Kyoto agreement is just about limiting fossil fuel consumption, and is therefore undermining our country's main industry and, of course, Norwegian interests in general. The signals that have come from President Bush are once and for all the Kyoto agreement. Without the U.S., there will be no deal. The very prerequisite for the entry into force of the agreement with 55 countries, representing a total of 55 p.m. emissions, are now gone. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State now take over what has happened, and will complete the unilateral Norwegian measures affecting both industry and the population, such as: The CO2 tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e297	I think it is in Norwegian interest, also with regard to our long-term economic basis, to participate both in an international effort to make our industries more environmentally friendly and to go ahead in those areas where we have the opportunity. Many important technological advances have been made in our oil and gas industries. I have great faith that we can also be at the forefront in technology development, so that our oil and gas industry can also participate in reducing dangerous greenhouse gas emissions. In the longer term – when we are really going to start emission reductions far beyond those currently under the Kyoto Protocol – we will depend on countries cooperating on instruments, so that we achieve not only anti-competitive measures but real environmental obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e302	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e305	While the Progress Party is cheering on the idea that the entire Kyoto Protocol may fail, everyone else who is concerned about the future, and that we should leave something better to those who come after us, should be very concerned. I wonder what sort of step the government sees itself served with further forward. Firstly, I wonder whether Norway has handed over a formal protest in relation to the United States. I have heard the Minister for the Environment speak out loud, clear and clear, but it is also important to say very clearly to the US authorities, for example. calling the ambassador on the carpet and delivering formal protests, which really put behind Norway’s views. Then I wonder if Norway is considering withdrawing from the umbrella group we are now in, together with the United States, and setting up another umbrella group – possibly cooperating more closely with the EU. And my third question is, is it that we can already give a very clear signal that Norway is going to ratify the agreement that comes to the bottom, anyway? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e316	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e319	In the case of formal protests, I can show that I have sent a very clear letter to the US Environment Minister and expressed the Norwegian views, and in addition I have addressed this directly with the US authorities at political level. Furthermore, we will follow up on this in the time that comes and do what we can to get the work back on track. I do not think it is appropriate for Norway to withdraw from a negotiating group in this situation, but we have made it very clear that we do not see any basis for coordinating positions really within this group, but see it as a contact forum. It is therefore also obvious that during this period Norway will keep in touch with other countries, such as the EU countries, the developing countries and also the Central and Eastern European countries, and work closely with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e326	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e329	I have a question for the Minister of Development. On 1 April the United Kingdom stopped all the commitment of its aid, and the South's close colleague, Claire Short, is ramsalt in his criticism of tied aid. It is more expensive – 25 pst. in fact – ineffective and leads to poorer and more donor-driven assistance. The Sydnes Council has supported the UK and said that tied aid is an old-fashioned practice that significantly reduces efficiency. At the same time, the Government has reversed the central government's decoupling policy in the food sector. For the WFP, the UN Food Programme, the percentage has increased, as far as I know. Unless the United Nations wants to buy Norwegian fish hermetics, you'll get less help. The Council of State's political adviser has said that there are fundamental differences between the previous government and this, and he says that we should not be too far ahead of other countries on such issues. The problem is that we are far behind other countries and the countries we can compare with. In fact, here we belong to the rearguards, and almost no one now binds his aid to the WFP. Should there not be a better match between words and action in today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e338	Decommissioning assistance is an important tool to increase the effectiveness of aid payments. That's essentially an international consensus. There are a number of negotiations and processes in place to obtain international agreement on the abolition of aid, including: under the auspices of the OECD and the DAC where, inter alia: There is a process of decoupling assistance from LDCs. It is not right that this government has reversed its efforts to dismantle Norwegian aid. On the contrary, we are working on a decoupling strategy to be able more systematically to disengage our own assistance. The Government prefers that the supplies of the World Food Programme be subject to international competition to a greater extent. Norwegian aid, including Norwegian supplies to the World Food Programme, is tied up with international agreements and practices of other countries. I am aware that a few decisions were made under the previous government where a decommissioning policy was then exemplified in relation to decisions when it was about the World Food Programme. Now it is also the case that the World Food Programme has wanted to buy certain products from Norway, and this is the basis for our cooperation with the programme that we have had. I can inform you that there has been a happy development over the last few weeks in the DAC negotiations on decoupling to LDCs. We hope now that we will get to port with an agreement that has been negotiated for many years. Actually, this decoupling work started in the OECD in 1964. Together with others, we want to actively engage in the decommissioning work. I'm familiar with my colleague Claire Short's policy in this area, and it's good that the United Kingdom has taken the decisions they've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e349	As a rule, you become most credible in your international work when you do what you have to do, and do not wait for others – in this case in the case of food aid. It is very nice to make a strategy for the rest and to have come a long way in the OECD/DAC. In the case of food aid, the Council of State’s political adviser on Development today said earlier this year that there are fundamental differences in relation to the previous government and that the decoupling has been frozen. So for information, the central government had decoupled from 50 pst. until 19 pst. in relation to the WFP and it is very important. We don't want it to be like that unless the United Nations wants to buy Norwegian fish hermetics, get less assistance and less help. This is an unsustainable practice, and the Council of State agrees in principle. Then I actually wanted the will to now follow up on this. The state budget says that this work will continue in the next period, and then the Development Today says the opposite, namely that it is frozen. I ask that action be followed by words, which give greater credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e358	The reason we want to cut off the assistance is that we then have the maximum effect of the assistance we provide. We also need to have a professional dialogue with the organisations responsible for the implementation of assistance in the various fields, and we also listen to advice from the various professional communities. These include: so that the World Food Programme has not sought further decoupling of Norwegian food supplies, but has found it useful with the level of Norwegian supply up to now. This has been related to the quality of these products and how to achieve them in different situations with the right products. Otherwise, I fully agree that the cut-off work must speed up. It is also very important that we get international agreements on this, because the dismantling of Norwegian aid in itself does not lead to the comprehensive results we want in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e366	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e369	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Last week the South Coast was heavily attacked by a poisoned algae, a great threat to fish farming in particular. Now, luckily, this poison algae is returning, but the question is, what have we learned from this episode, this threat that occurred last week? This poison algae can come back again and remain a threat to Norwegian fish and fish farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e374	Unfortunately, we can also expect possible algal blooms in this area in the future. What we've learned is that we need to be even stronger drivers in the international cooperation that's in progress in getting rules for ballast water management from ships. A UN work is under way in this area. Unfortunately, it takes longer than anyone from Norway would have wanted, but it is primarily international rules in this area that can really help us solve the problem of dispersal, which in this case is most likely to have come from Japan and into our waters. We've also learned that we have to be on guard when this happens. The Directorates-General responsible for the field, inter alia: The Maritime Directorate, the Marine Research Institute and the State Pollution Control Agency are in the process of gaining an increased knowledge base. The Maritime Directorate also invited last Friday ships not to use ballast water in this area. I have also asked that we consider what opportunities we have to implement immediate action in our own direction, but it is primarily in the international cooperation we can overcome this problem in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e381	I thank you for the answer, even though I consider it very defensive. In the case of foot-and-mouth disease, immediate action at national level was not long before Norway, based on the precautionary principle. However, in the case of the poison algae, only international measures are referred to. I am surprised that the Council of State did not immediately impose a temporary ban on ballast refuelling, as Bellona suggested, and so the Right also recommended, so that in a much more effective way one could prevent the further spread of this poison algae further northward along the coast, which would be an even greater threat to fish farming. Otherwise, I agree that we need to work internationally to limit the supply of nutrition to the poison algae, but also to international rules for ballast refuelling. But here it could be expected that the Minister for the Environment had taken immediate national action, as has been done in the foot-and-mouth disease case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e392	I am not against immediate action. The challenge is to find immediate measures that could be effective in such a situation, and that is what we asked the trade union directorates to look at. That's also why the Maritime Directorate suggested what they did when it was the call not to take ballast water in this case. Close action is important if they can have an impact on further dissemination, and that will clearly be part of the assessment we are going to make in the future. Nevertheless, it is a challenge to look at what is happening in completely different waters than ours, from which these algae have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e397	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e400	It is obvious that immediate action may be needed to prevent algae from being passed from South Norway to other parts of our coast, but there is also a need for precautionary measures. It is totally impossible to predict that algae from Korea or Japan would have such effects as it now has. We had a similar case in the case of the Black Sea and the United States of America – the effects were disastrous. I'm convinced that our aquaculture industry, and we on behalf of it, now have to make demands to be the leader, so that we don't get even more of this variety. And a leading stock-holding must probably lead to that it is gradually forbidden not to clean the ballast water until it is discharged, or that it is released only in international waters. Our shipping industry will benefit if our boats are previously equipped with such sewage treatment plants than others. Will the government support the research and development that is taking place to get us on board boats to clean this water?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e405	The knowledge base in this area will be a very important instrument for achieving the necessary measures that need to be taken internationally and, where appropriate, may also take place nationally in each country if they can be effective. So we will definitely strengthen research and development in this area with a view to getting even better management of work in the future. I would otherwise say that there is no country that has managed to solve these challenges on its own or has a set of effective instruments on its own. So it's work at international level together with the general work to prevent pollution, such as: eutrophication and discharge into the sea, which is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e412	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e415	I hope that another time this happens with full weight, is more prepared to initiate action than it was this time. It almost seems as if one has in some way not taken fully inward the meaning that this industry has for the whole of the coast of Norway. After all, other countries have gone ahead and introduced stricter rules in their own legislation, pending the adoption of international legislation. Among other things, Australia has done this. So I would like to ask the Minister if someone from Norway has assessed whether one here has the opportunity to go ahead and introduce national legislation pending international agreements. It is also the case that Norwegian companies here have developed a technology that makes it possible to have significantly better monitoring and control of this. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister if he has looked at that technology, and whether it has been assessed to work to make it spread around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e422	Technology that can be involved and find solutions is definitely considered as part of the work of coordinating all the sectoral directorates concerned. It is true that some countries have progressed towards national action. Among other things, Australia has issued an invitation to ships in its own area to have a plan for their management of ballast water, but they have no prohibition on changing such ballast water. It shows how difficult it is for a single country to solve the problems here; it is the most important measures in the international field. But we can be a driving force in this work from the Norwegian side, both on the basis of the knowledge we have built up, on the technology we have at our disposal, and on concrete proposals on how countries should behave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e428	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e431	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The pile of unsolved criminal cases is growing as never before in the country's police district. 250,000 cases were committed last year, and since 1998, the police over the whole country have had to resolve 750 000 cases. There is little doubt that this development weakens the trust in the legal system of ordinary people. What concrete action will the Minister of Justice take to curb this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e438	It's true that the number of deposits is high. But the other side of this is the number of people clearing up, and the situation is that there hasn't been a higher percentage of information in Norwegian police in 28 years than today. In other words, the number of clarifications goes up; we're on the right path in that area. At the same time, the remains go down. During the last year, the balances were reduced by almost 20 p.m., and the processing time went down. In other words, there is every reason to believe that we are turning the police in the right direction. And I think the best answer is that both the police, the Ministry of Justice and to the extent that the Storting has taken many right steps, and is about to do things that go in the right direction. But then I would particularly like to point out two things that I think are important in order to reduce the number of provisions. The large number of provisions is obviously not acceptable, we have to get the number of provisions down, and we have to get the number of clarifications up. There is every reason to believe that we can do the same, because the percentage of information varies greatly from police districts to police districts. And that's why there's reason to believe that those who are bad can be as good as those who are good. One is going to continue and deliberately follow up on what is reoccurrence crime, take those who are repeaters, and take care of prisons quickly in reoccurrence cases. The second thing I would like to point out is that it is absolutely essential that police districts develop strategies, not least for profit crime, to meet profit crime in a good way, because it constitutes many of the large number of cases. And it's proven to be successful where you've been actively involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e447	I'm very concerned that you don't minimize the importance of the ever-increasing daily crime, because we also have the victims to take into account. The audience is particularly difficult to understand, and with whom they are in no way satisfied, is that the police are laying down matters where the perpetrator is known. And my question is, what can the Minister of Justice do for known perpetrators to always be punished?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e454	I believe that it is obvious that in cases involving a known perpetrator, the perpetrator should be prosecuted. I don't think there should be any doubt about that. A change in laws adopted by the Stortinget a year and a half ago also makes it easier. In the past, a number of cases were raised with a known perpetrator, because there were already a lot of cases on him and the case was before the court – then it was wiser to plot than to postpone the whole case. It has now been changed by the fact that you can now split it up, you can run the case as it was, and then take out a new charge for the new conditions. And I think you should always do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e459	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e462	The current Minister of Justice Aure said in the 1998 budget that all offences, large or small, should be investigated by a known perpetrator. Can the current Minister of Justice confirm that she has the same objective – it was well suggested in the previous answer – and can she also assure that among the 250 000 unexplored cases referred to by Nymo, it is not a known perpetrator? The next question is what ambition the Council of State has in relation to a crime without a known perpetrator. In the light of the very large police reforms that the department invites Stortinget to join in, I think we might have expected a somewhat more precise answer with regard to the level of ambition than the relatively general answer given by the Council of State in relation to Tor Nymo's main question. What level of ambition has the Council of State, on behalf of the police, committed against crime by an unknown perpetrator?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e471	First of all, I would like to remind you that it is the Riks lawyer who is responsible for investigating the individual case, and therefore I cannot guarantee that there are no cases among the 250,000 hospitalized cases where there is no known perpetrator. But I can confirm that I have the same objective as Minister of Justice Aure at the time, that matters with a known perpetrator should be investigated and prosecuted in the way that those responsible for it think is right. To give a concrete objective for which the percentage of police in Norway should rise, that is: think of a number. Today the clearance rate is 36,5. I think we should get far higher than that, because we know that many police districts have a percentage of clearance far higher than that. At least I think that the first goal we can set is that the majority of police districts come up at the same level as the best of today's police districts are on, and they're about 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e478	Jan Simonsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e481	In a recent interview with the Daily newspaper, the attorney general said that we had to expect some minor cases to be settled because resources had to be invested in the more serious criminal cases. That's the same thing as saying that lack of resources leads to cases being closed down. It is a political responsibility for government and magnification to provide the police with adequate resources. Does the Minister of Justice think that it is satisfactory that matters are not being investigated and blamed for lack of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e488	First, I must stress that the fact that a case has been closed does not mean that it has not been investigated. It means, rather, that it's finished researching, and of course you can discuss whether you should have researched more of them any further. But I have to make it clear that the fact that it is closed means that the police consider the investigation to be complete, and that they, for example, consider them to be done. has not found any performer. I believe, of course, that we should resolve several issues, and therefore resolve fewer matters. In isolation, of course, I also believe that it would have been desirable if we had had more resources for the police. But the representative Simonsen knows just as well as I do that there are always questions about an overall assessment of how society is going to spend its money. And I remind you that the police have been strengthened in their resources. There are at least 3,000–4,000 more police today than they were in 1990. So the police have had a significant increase in their budgets, and are like this a budget winner compared to many other areas of this society. And I think that's right. But it also says something about that it has not only been sad and sad in the last ten years either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e496	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e499	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. I want to address some aspects of organized crime. As we heard in the round of questions instead, everyone agrees that part of the police success criteria is the percentage of clarification. But in relation to some forms of crime, you can't expect to get a quick count. When it comes to the backers — to put it that way, the criminal pigs who earn money on the circulation of drugs and alcohol and who often go through the sparsely populated university exam in the crime of money laundering — often require a concentration of effort over a long period of time, and which cannot be met by clearance rates. So my question is, does the Minister of Justice feel that there is now enough pressure, both organisational and practical, even through the use of investigation methods, to be able to address some of these background environments for organized crime? I am particularly concerned about drug crime and those who make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e508	I do not want to answer yes to the fact that there is sufficient pressure, but it depends on how to define ‘sufficient’, because I am absolutely sure that it is possible to do more than what is done today. But at the same time, I think it's a good pressure. Both the establishment of the Police Directorate and the establishment of the Council for Organised Crime, which is now under way, have contributed to our progress. The whole Schengen Agreement is also a contribution in this direction, and not least SIS, the information system attached to the Schengen Agreement, is an important contribution to the fight against organised crime. I also believe that the changes we made to the withdrawal provisions were important for this, but I think we still have a way to go before the new withdrawal provisions that make it easier to withdraw profit, are actually as much used in the individual case as they should. And it's a question of competence, a question of consciousness and a question of training. I'm sure we're going in the right direction, but we haven't made it completely clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e521	I thank you for your answer and will carefully consider whether the Left will come back later with concrete proposals. I note that the Council of State and I now at least agree that we must have pressure. I want to link my supplementary question to the fact that yesterday we had a meeting at the Nordic Council. Yesterday, in the Nordic Council, the Nordic Committee – and I am a representative of the Left – decided to recommend to the Nordic Council of Ministers to create a Nordic protection programme for witnesses. I would like to ask the Council of State a question about this, also because she has previously said that on 31 March there should be a position to strengthen the protection of witnesses, among other things. by being able to change your personal number when persecuted in such a malicious way that this is the only way to ensure the safety of witnesses. Is this setting currently in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e528	I am sorry that I am not sure if the setting has actually been given. The group that was to look at new rules in order to change the number of the person had a deadline of 31 March, but if the setting was actually delivered, I am not sure. I'll ask for it when I get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e533	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e536	I would like to ask Sydnes a question, because what I have noticed, and which the press has noticed, and which various fun programs have also noticed, is that the Council of State has called Tiedemann's tobacco factory to hit the table and say that child workers should not be used. I wonder if the Council of State with the same intensity follows up the positions of the Norwegian Oil Fund in various companies around the world. Is it the case that the Minister for Development has also contacted the Ministry of Finance to ensure that all Norwegian investments in different companies comply with the same standards so as not to use child labour as the Council believes the Tiedemann Tobacco Factory should follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e543	In the field of development, we have been working for a long time to complete child labour. The exercise of the rights of children is important in itself. Making children go to school and take education is essential for the countries with which we cooperate to develop. The children are the most important resource a society has. Therefore, it is absolutely imperative that children be given the opportunity to go to school, and that they also have the opportunity to sleep and rest. The child labour debate has been going on for a long time, including in Norway, and there is some nuance in the debate. The most important thing is that the children concerned are getting better, and that they are in a situation where they can contribute their resources to developing their countries. The issue in question concerning child labour on tobacco plantations is about work that is completely unworthy, and it is therefore important to highlight it. These are children all the way down to the age of five who are engaged in plantations, largely because their parents don't get enough pay on the plantations where they work. Obviously, we have to deal with this because it's kind of in conflict with the whole philosophy of development. With regard to child labour and other matters on which we, as a country, wish to change, it is clear that all actors have a responsibility, and that also applies to investors in my view. That means that we have to engage in relation to e.g. the tobacco industry and other industries where it appears that Norway is also involved and investing, in order to change practices among these industries. Now it is true that in recent times there has also been another issue related to Norwegian locations, namely landmine production. This is a matter for which the Government is of course very serious, and for which we are now working, and for which we will come back in the near future with proposals for new guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e556	The work of the Norwegian government in combating and limiting child labour is very important, and I fully agree with the Council of State that it is the quality of young people's growth that will determine the quality of a society in the future. Therefore, it is fine when the Council of State summons both one company and the other company on the carpet to raise the standard. However, we cannot accept a double morale which is such that when Norwegian companies use child labour, they are called in on the Council of State carpet, while when the Minister of Finance does not lift a finger in how Norwegian oil billions are to be placed, he only gets pat on the shoulder. When will Minister Sydnes summon the Minister of Finance on the carpet and with a very strict reprimand order him not only to withdraw from landmine production, but also to set ethical standards for the placement of Norwegian money, which makes you play with the Minister of Assistance in the fight against child labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e563	I can assure the representative Halvorsen that the Minister of Finance is also concerned with ethical issues, and that the Minister of Finance is also concerned that we should be involved in combating, among other things. child labour. In the government, we are now discussing guidelines on landmine issues, and also other issues about situations in which we can come up with situations, such as: where we have investment, which would prove to be contrary to international conventions to which we have joined. We also have international conventions in the field of child labour, especially related to the worst forms of child labour. It is clear that this is also a topic that I am discussing, for example. The Minister of Finance, but I think all Norwegian politicians are concerned about. Now, on two previous occasions, the Storting has discussed the possibility of establishing ethical guidelines for the management of the Petroleum Fund, and per. Today we have the guidelines we have. There'll probably be a third chance to get back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e572	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e576	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The radioactive pollution along the Norwegian coast is sixfold since 1996. The main reason for this is the British nuclear plant Sellafield. The Sellafield plant plans to continue emissions to the current level until 2006. This isn't just a threat to marine life and fauna and to vital business interests; it's gambling on a high level with both health and the overall environment. I have recorded that the Minister for the Environment has expressed great concern about the problem, and that the Prime Minister will tell his British colleague that tossing out from Sellafield is an unkind act. This is urgent, and it's very urgent. Because of very long degradation times, the consequences, if the radioactive substance enters our ecosystem, will be that we have it practically forever. My question is: What concrete plans does the Government have to meet this dramatic challenge, and will the Government put strong pressure on British government powers and international agencies to shut down the Sellafield plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e589	I share the representative's concern about the increased radioactive pollution of sea areas outside the Norwegian coast, and the government has therefore continued the work that has also been carried out by previous governments towards the UK authorities, protesting that emissions appear to be high until 2006, at least if the UK Environment Directorate's proposal is adopted. It is part of the story that the British government has not yet taken a position on the level of emissions in the years to come, and therefore we have the hope that the activity we have been running over a long period of time can affect the decision to be taken by the British Government. We have clearly protested from the Norwegian side. I have personally met the British Minister for the Environment about this. We have also sent a large technical investigation to UK environmental authorities, where we pay particular attention to the long-term consequences of this pollution that we know too little about in relation to its future adverse effects and that it should therefore stop. We're also working on the Nordic level. The Nordic Environment Ministers have addressed this issue, including in cooperation with several countries in the North Sea region. With regard to the Oslo-Paris Convention, we have also proposed that one should close the Sellafield plant immediately with a view to obtaining other and more sound forms of radioactive waste management. Reprocessing is an unsustainable way of dealing with such waste, and one should work with technological solutions that ensure storage in those countries that are going to carry out such nuclear activities, as we in Norway see nothing in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e598	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad you're so offensive, but the question is whether this is enough, because this is urgent. There is little comfort in the fact that plutonium has a half-life of 24 000 years, compared to technetium of 200000 years, for 24 000 years is also quite a long time. We are talking in every way about something that is eternal in our ecosystem. This requires an active action. ‘It’s now or never’, to refer to an old butcher, so my question is: Is there really any other good and realistic solution to the dearming of this environmental bomb than the closure of the Sellafield plant, and will the Government strongly and actively participate in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e605	We are working, as I said in my main response, in several areas, both with a short-term policy to make the UK authorities reduce emissions faster and later so that this plant can be replaced by another kind of storage. Here we work with other countries, but so far the United Kingdom and France, which are countries with such activities, have not wanted to address it. We must therefore use, from the Norwegian side and in cooperation with other countries, the forces we have – now also the Prime Minister will address this with his colleague Tony Blair – with a view to putting the necessary pressure on the British authorities, so that we can help to change the pollution situation in this area in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e610	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e613	The left has repeatedly urged the Prime Minister to bring this matter up with his British colleague. We have not received a positive response to it until now on Saturday, when we repeated this claim. Then the Prime Minister promised that on an appropriate occasion before the summer he would take this up. I think that's too defensive. It should have been taken up as a separate matter on a previous occasion. My question is, When can it be assumed that the British Government is making a decision on this issue, and can the Minister for the Environment assure me that the Prime Minister's contact with Tony Blair is in front of the Government's decision, and not as a mild protest afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e620	There is no basis to believe that the Government has a defensive position on this issue. We've used all the opportunities we've had to put pressure on British authorities in this area, and I'm absolutely sure that the strong commitment that is in all of Norway in this respect, from municipalities, from organisations, from the Stortinget and from other environments, leads to a clear pressure and is perceived as a clear position on the Norwegian side in this work. We are going to continue that, and the Prime Minister is also going to deal with this with his colleague in a way that enables us to contribute to it. Otherwise, we're all in touch at the professional level, and I'm at my level with the Environment Minister, who I meet from time to time, so there's no shortage of pressure from Norway against the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e625	Let's move on to the next main question:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e628	I have a question for the Minister of Assistance based on a report from the World Bank entitled ‘Aid and Reform in Africa’. It has a number of interesting findings that give reason to ask questions about much of the established u-help given by the Western world. The report was published on 27 March this year, and it is mentioned in our country on Monday 2 April under the title ‘Help can make things worse’. Our country writes: ‘A study of the effects of aid in ten African countries shows that aid can be counterproductive if it is sent uncritically into countries that do not want or are engaged in social and economic reforms. Instead of promoting reforms, assistance in such cases can support a miserable policy and delay positive changes.’ Will the Minister of Assistance ensure that Norwegian aid is not provided to countries that are not willing to undertake the necessary reforms on an adequate scale? And does the Minister of Aid agree that Norwegian aid to countries that do not commit to reform policy can often work against their purpose, and that aid does not benefit the poor in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e640	The World Bank has again presented an interesting report. I would like to say that much has happened to development aid over the last few decades. We know a lot more today about the conditions for assistance to work. There is much greater international consensus on the objective of development aid. In my opinion, it also means that today we have a greater moral responsibility to provide more assistance than we had before, because we now know how to relieve distress and suffering around the world. As regards the prerequisites for maximising the impact of development aid, it is right that opportunities are greater in countries with good governance, or at least with political will to develop their countries in the right direction – democratic, etc. with good governance in the economic sphere. This does not mean that we should not be present in countries with severe suffering and distress that do not have such conditions. But that means that we have to consider how we are going to be present in some of these countries as well. In addition, the World Bank has provided Norwegian development assistance with good qualities in terms of the impact of our aid crowns and our aid efforts, and Norwegian aid scores significantly higher in the efficiency variable than the OECD average. Furthermore, a very central part of our development aid is well managed, and very much of our assistance is directed towards supporting the countries in their efforts to ensure democratic development and to secure human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e649	I don't think I got a satisfactory answer to my questions, because, as it also says in our country: ‘Instead of promoting reforms, assistance in such cases may support a miserable policy’. So by supporting a country's system of governance that's miserable, where you don't want reforms, and which is dictatorial, you can keep the dictators and the miserable governance alive instead of being able to change. So I would like to repeat the question: will the Minister for Aid go through Norwegian aid policy and ensure that it does not go to land and regimes that are not willing to implement the necessary reforms themselves? And when the Minister of Aid talks about moral responsibility, I assume that she agrees that moral responsibility at least implies that no assistance is provided if it works against its real purpose and prolongs a miserable situation for the poor in the country. The Council of State will then ensure that conditions are attached to the policies pursued in the recipient countries, including: the conduct of a market economy policy and the insistence on a democratic system of governance and respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e660	I must be allowed to draw attention to the fact that a number of conditions are attached to our assistance, and that we have a very active dialogue with our cooperation partners in the south on human rights issues, and on issues related to good governance. We've had that for a long time. As Minister of Development, and as a government, I have a responsibility, of course, to ensure that we get the maximum positive effect of the aid. That is why we have continuous reviews of how we can make aid even more effective and better, so that it does not conflict with other objectives, such as: that we want to contribute to democratic development and respect for human rights. Last year we put forward in the budget a proposal – and it was also adopted in the Grand Duchy – to cut Zimbabwe out as a priority main cooperation country. It was a result of such a review. The Progress Party wants to frustrate Norwegian development policy. That's not the answer to the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e669	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e672	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. It is now a very long time since the setting of the Rieber-Mohn Committee was presented. It has been a very long time since the consultation deadline expired. Nevertheless, we have not received any results from the Government, so that this puts a dead hand over some necessary business development in the districts. It's e.g. a continuing district uprising in Finnland, which could have been partially answered by the launch of farming concessions in vulnerable areas in this country. My question is, why has this taken so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e679	This was a matter we took up last year when we started up in the government offices. I proposed some principles for further work in this area in the supplementary communication on the State of the State of the Environment and the Government's environmental protection policy, which was discussed later last year in Stortinget. Its conclusion was that during 2001, the Government was to present a proposal for follow-up in this area to the Stortinget, and for that we are still working, for that we will. In the meantime, we are working both on a concrete strengthening of the possibilities for the protection of wild salmon strains and for an environmentally friendly farming industry. So in this area, we are working in practice, at the same time as we are laying the basis for proposals also in the follow-up to the proposals that the representative Petersen is making, with which we will therefore return to the Stortinget during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e686	It's not useful to get involved in a matter if you stay seated and hold it, and that's what's the problem here. A dead hand has been placed on the necessary development of nutrition, for example: in the whole of East Finland. My question is whether the Council of State would like to release parts of the area, where there is obviously no major conflict — for example. the northern part of Varangerfjord – for farming. Now there's rebellion in Finnmark. It's a very difficult situation, and it would be a great relief if the Council of State could now say that yes, here's an area where you can start, and where you don't have to wait for the department to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e693	Nutrient development in Finnmark is a very important and priority issue. And what we're doing now, laying the groundwork for protecting the wild salmon strains, while laying the foundation for a sustainable farming industry, is not going to delay that work. As far as the farming side of Finnmark is concerned, there are no proposals for non-driving or delayed by this work. On the contrary, we see this as two sides of the same thing. We will therefore make individual proposals when they are concrete, both on the farming side, which is the concrete responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, and in relation to the relationship between the wild salmon strains, which are also the basis for large parts of the farming industry, at least in the case of salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e700	The time for the oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e712	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2557]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e726	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2558]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e740	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that one of the independent representatives be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e747	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, through Document No. 8:47 proposed the introduction of ‘one for all, all for one’ clause in the penal code and reinforced criminal provisions for acts of violence and persecution. The document refers to specific gangs who have committed criminal acts over recent years and who have committed serious violence. The Committee fully agrees that such activity is unacceptable and will be combated in the strongest possible way. This is why, in its recommendation for a decision taken by the Stortinget, the Committee highlights the importance of combating recriminalism, as well as various measures taken by the Government aimed at the same purpose. The Committee also points to measures that may have already been implemented but which we are asking for feedback on the State budget. This applies not least to the prioritisation of gang members in pay queues, so that they cannot commit new criminal acts between judgment and acquittal. On a general basis, the Committee endorses Hagen’s intention to provide solutions and measures that can be effective and that will act as a preventive factor in the replication and behaviour of gangs. The security of the population and the police must be an important issue in this context. However, the majority of the Committee, all of whom are not members of the Advancement Party, cannot in any way agree with the background description and the solutions presented by the representative, Mr Hagen. Cutting everyone into a single chamber environment with regard to the requirement of proof, guilt, responsibility and punishment would be a violation of recognised principles of legal certainty. It will allow for arbitraryness and ignore the requirement of subjective guilt. The Minister of Justice, by letter to the Committee of 1 March of this year, has clearly demonstrated this both in terms of the principal aspects and in terms of practical application. The majority of the Committee is also amazed at the fact that the proposer seems to totally disregard what is being done. in fact, the Norwegian law in force in the area is currently in force. Whether it is due to lack of knowledge or deliberate omission, the majority of the committee has not reflected on it. But we feel that it is most necessary to stress that the general rule today is that participation in criminal offences can be punished. However, it must be proved that he has contributed to the criminal offence, either physically or mentally. Aspects related to most serious crimes have been directly mentioned in the penalty. And even where this is not directly mentioned, the wording is often so extensive that it also includes acts of participation. The same penalties will then apply to contributors, as to principals. In addition, Section 232 of the Penal Code contains a rule on particularly exacerbating circumstances in relation to punishment. I quote, but omit some intermediate terms: «In determining whether other particularly aggravating circumstances exist, particular attention shall be paid to whether the infringement... has been committed by several in common.» The representative Hagen points out that the problem of clarifying who did and who did not do what gives the gangs an advantage. This advantage he recommends removed by the principle of one for all, all for one. The majority of the Committee agrees that it may be difficult in some cases to identify who participated physically or mentally in the violence committed. But we're not willing to four and a half millimeters of the principle of legal certainty for the innocent. Opening up generalisations will easily result in slippages in other areas. It is not at all in accordance with Norwegian and international law to follow the principle that it is better to punish for many than too few. It is also not desirable to move in that direction. Such a society opens up to arbitraryness and injustice. But it is right and necessary to put police and investigators in the best position to do the job even better, for the safety of their own and other law-abiding citizens. As regards Part II of the proposal, the Council of State stated in that letter that assessments of: better legal rules against ethnic discrimination if legislative changes should be made in order to facilitate the impact of racist opinions on the use of methods to prevent criminal offences which can only be used during investigations at present, where there are grounds for suspecting that someone has committed a criminal offence. The Committee therefore does not endorse the proposals contained in Document No. 8:47.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e788	The proposals of the Progress Party in the field of recriminalism gave the Judicial Committee a good opportunity to carry out a broad review of all the issues related to recriminalism. We had a hearing with the Minister of Justice, the police chief in Oslo, the police director, the state attorney, the head of surveillance, the prison director, etc. The reason for this is that there are a number of measures relating to recriminalism that have actually been adopted in the last four-year period. When the proposal of the Progress Party itself is rejected, it is among other things. because all the hearing bodies mentioned were opposed to the proposal for the simple reason that participation is being penalised already today. The Advocate General drew attention to the fact that, in some cases, participation actually provides more severe punishment than the penalty for the perpetrator of the act itself. It's reassuring. What we can't relax on is the requirement of proof. It must be proved that a person has actually been present and contributed to a criminal act. That's a consensus. This review showed that there are, in particular, four measures that are important in terms of recriminalism: First, we have to organize ourselves differently. Now we do that by going through police districts, judicial districts, setting up police director's offices, creating a separate unit against organized crime, ROK, and reorganizing POT. The second thing that needs to be done is a significant legislative change. So have we. During this period we have been allowed anonymous witnesses, we have been allowed to withdraw, we have been given new visitation rules, we have been given new police methods, etc. The attorney general stresses that it is now time to implement the new law against the performers that are important. As paragraph 3, we need to improve all the processes that take place from a criminal act to acquittal. We have to bring down the atoning cows, and we have to speed things up in the courts and in the police. There are also processes in place. We've got a high-speed court in Oslo. And we're now measuring the results in all of these three terms a lot tougher than it's ever been done before. The reason is that the consequence of not responding early to a gang member who has done something wrong – that you can see him walking out the street the next day, and that you have to wait for months, not to say years, before he gets a reaction – seems to be directly recruiting for the gangs. Therefore, this third step in processes that need to be improved is extremely important. The fourth state attorney pointed to was money. There's the political disagreement. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have wanted to grant more to the system than the majority have done. But it's a debate we're going to have to take to the harvest. A few remaining measures were mentioned in the consultation round. Among other things, we need to look at the possibility of better access to the visit to the car. We need to look at a better opportunity to investigate recriminal crime on the Internet, for example. in the case of traceability. We await regulations related to anonymous witnesses. And the prosecution has to be much better at asking for more severe penalties when the defendant refuses to explain himself. It's a major problem when it comes to organized crime. In addition, the Judicial Committee is waiting for a case notified by the Government relating to criminal reactions for young people. We know that many of the youngest gang members are under the criminal detainee, and getting relevant criminal reactions for this group is very important to stop the recruitment process. There's an investigation work going on in the department, and we're meeting that the case will come to an end. The summary I have tried to make is intended to give a little hope that recrimination can actually be combated much harder in the future than what we have seen so far. The Oslo Police Department has changed its procedures and ordered employees to intervene much earlier and to use custody of these members, and the prison director has promised that reprisals will be given first priority in settlement cows. With this I hope that we can go to the situation and times brighter when it comes to tougher measures against recriminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e816	First of all, I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the intentions of this proposal, namely to strengthen the fight against recriminal crime and the unacceptable and unacceptable behaviour of gangs, and that this problem has been addressed and reviewed, as the Minister of Justice in his reply shows that she has, and presented it to other bodies. As stated in the Minister of Justice's reply, similar proposals were made in October 1996 in Denmark by the Democratic People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, and also supported by the Progress Party. I then find that the Conservative People's Party in Denmark is more concerned with combating gene crime than the Right in Norway, and that similar ideas are also being addressed elsewhere. In this way, proposals I and II need to be seen in the context. The Minister of Justice does not have the power to perceive it. I think that's a little weird. As regards Part II of the proposal, that the Government should ‘investigate and promote better law-enforcement in order to prosecute and impose penalties for acts of violence, threats of violence and strongly reducing calls in connection with this and physical persecution’, it states that ‘it is not concrete’. Well, that was the process that, among other things. In the Beheim Karlsen case, and as we have regular reports, we have gangs against people on the T-course, on street corners, on shopping malls, or outside driving calls, plagiarism, bullying, threats and, in part, running after taking someone else. It is only if a very serious act of violence is committed that this is a political matter. If serious bullying, bullying, yelling and threats from a gang in itself were criminal, and if the gang were collectively responsible for it, I think they would have had the effect of replay significantly reduced. There are probably several people who have experienced this – at least I have received a lot of telephones from people who are on bus stops, outside shopping malls and, as I said, on T-Bahn stations and on the T-Bahn itself, so they are anxious and afraid of pushing and calling. It's in itself kind of nothing to care about, most people think, because you can never know who has yelled, who has done it, who has posed the threat. If that had been an opportunity to make them collectively responsible, I am convinced that this would have been preventive. It's the most important thing. It is of course the most important thing about this type of criminal code that we have had to prevent them from working. The fact that you can actually be punished for something a gang does when you're in the crowd, without even doing anything, will suddenly lead to that instead of a repeat and repeat act being a protection factor for the individual – because you know that it might be hard to figure out who did something wrong, so it's safe when you act in a bunch, the criminal has the security of a bunch – if you turn this around, as we suggest, it would be unsafe to participate in a bunch. This applies to threads in general, including, for example: MC gangs, as claimed by the police, commit crime. Then you want to know that when you sign up and join a crowd, you can risk something negative as well, and not just get the protection through the participation. That's the main foundation of the idea behind our proposal. I think that if you asked ordinary policemen who are out on the street, many of them would like to want a warrant and know that they could do something about gangs, instead of the people sometimes laughing policemen in the face and saying, you didn't have anything to say, because we're protected by the fact that you don't know who did it. In the case of ‘participation’, it must be primarily a serious criminal act. But we do think that when gangs behave very much annoyingly and threateningly towards people, it should be something that we should not accept. I feel that the majority there is going a long way in accepting this. We also have other things in recent times, which I don't have the records from, that go in the same direction, that participating in a bunch seems protective. When e.g. More people say that more care is to be taken in prison, and this is what we should do and what we should do, we forget that legislation needs to be amended, so that prisons can be made easier, even easier than the majority of the committee has previously set up, because the majority of the Committee's courts do not want to give any clear instructions, in relation to the criminal provisions and in relation to the impositions. So I allow myself, on behalf of the Progress Party, to take up the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e829	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e832	There is no political disagreement that repeat crime is an increasing and growing problem. The political parties in the Grand Duchy have also taken over, and several measures have been adopted to combat recriminalism in recent years that have not yet been fully effective. It is enough to mention new investigation methods that have given the police better tools to combat this type of crime. Furthermore, we have adopted better witness protection, increased penalties, increased use of custody and, above all, significant reorganisation of the police and civil servants' seat. Action plan against child and youth crime and action plan ‘Centre for Security’ are also measures that help to combat recriminalism. Crime prevention should also, in the Committee's view, give priority to gang members in queues so that they cannot commit new crimes between judgment and settlement. We have also asked the Government to consider increasing the penalties for carrying a knife in public places. In total, this proposal is for measures and solutions that can have a good impact and preventative effect on participation in gangs and riots, while ensuring the best possible security for the population and the police. The majority of the Committee disagree with the background description and proposals for solutions such as Document No. 8:47 contains. In a letter from the Minister of Justice, it is pointed out that the reasons set out in Document No. The 8-proposal leaves a false impression of what is currently actually Norwegian law. The general rule is that participation in criminal offences can be punished. It is also worth noting that the Minister of Justice's draft letter to the Committee on the proposal has been submitted for an opinion to the national lawyer, to the police director, to the police chief in Oslo and to the head of monitoring. All of them oppose the proposal in Document No. 8:47 for 2000-2001. With the measures listed in the resolution, there is little doubt that recriminalism will be met with much tougher responses than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e845	It was Mr. Hagen's speech that made my need to take the word began. Because in the post he gave the impression that today it is not criminal for people involved in gangs, to threaten, make calls, commit violent acts, etc. And that is what Part II of the proposal actually goes on. It is in a way a proposal to make a criminal offence that is already punishable today. Of course, violent acts and threats from a gang against individuals are punishable. Then the question – when to punish people for threats or violent attacks – is whether it is the individual who has done it or whether you have contributed to it. Today, Norway has a strict responsibility for participation, and there is no doubt that if a team goes on or bothers or threatens people walking on the street, many of them could be punished for it. But then it is an additional question – and it may well be that the Progress Party disagrees with the majority in this Chamber – and that is: Should people be punished for their own actions, or should they also be punished for the actions of others? And the fundamental principle of law is to punish people for their own actions, including their own actions by helping others to commit a criminal offence. But we should not leave the legal principle of being punished for our own actions, not for the actions of others. That's what's one of the main arguments against collective criminal liability. But it should not be misunderstood that a gang that acts violently and threateningly cannot be punished today, or that the individuals in that group cannot be punished today. Of course they can. That is also why my response to the committee is shaped that way, and I believe that is also why the majority of the committee rejects the proposal. I think the information given to society by the unsound presentation given by the representative Hagen and the Progress Party, both in the proposal and to the extent in the post here in the Chamber, is unfortunate, because it is part of creating fear of something that is not the basis for having feared, and it does not at all mean that people who – to say so – are members of gangs, perhaps think they are more protected than they are. For they are not protected by the penal code if they contribute and contribute to and are together to threaten and be violent against people in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2558]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e862	It is then to be voted on in the cases on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e897	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose legal remedies in order to bring an action and to impose penalties on all persons in a ‘god’ who commit a criminal offence, even if one of the perpetrators, if any, cannot be identified.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and promote better law enforcement in order to prosecute and punish violent acts, threats of violence and strongly reducing calls in connection with this and physical persecution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e923	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-04.ana.ud1441e930	The representative should vote in favour of the vote? – Then the vote was taken by 87 to 18 votes.
