ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e168	The representatives Gard Folkvord and Kristin Halvorsen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Magnar Lussand, has taken the seat. The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo shall apply for welfare leave from 13 June to 15 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Kirsti Saxi, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e201	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e206	I'd like to suggest Asmund Kristoffersen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e211	Asmund Kristoffersen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week. The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e216	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Sandberg and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing measures to combat sexual abuse of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e221	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e233	At the request of the Presidency, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the rapporteur's introduction be set at 10 minutes. The number of other speakers is set to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no access to lines after the individual posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e240	This is a unanimous position by the Presidency, which concerns a number of different changes in the Rules of Procedure. There have been consultations with the group leaders on the amendments, and I would like to comment on some of these amendments in my speech. When the rules for meetings of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee were first adopted and incorporated into the Rules of Procedure, it was noted that 22 p.m. Members would be able to demand that a case be brought before Stortinget. At the time, four representatives were represented. Subsequently, the Committee has been enlarged so that 22 pst. today corresponds to six representatives. The Presidency therefore proposes that the minimum number of committee members who may require a case to be brought before the Storting should be increased from four to six. It is also proposed that a request for the submission of a case by the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to the Stortinget should be made at a committee meeting and that there should be a matter on the agenda of the meeting. The Committee shall examine whether the conditions of entry are met and shall assign them to the Presidency. Although a legal requirement has been made for the Stortinget, the Committee may decide to continue the examination of the matter at the same meeting or at a later meeting. In the Grand Duchy, the substance of the case is to be opened with a statement by a member of the Government. The debate is held either immediately after the presentation or at a later meeting, following the decision of the Storting. Proposals shall remain open to the plenary session, but proposals shall not be sent to the committee. Today, the Rules of Procedure provide that it is not permissible to publish a position until it has been delivered to the Stortingen Office, unless otherwise decided by the Committee. There have been doubts about the understanding of this rule, among other things. whether a committee may decide to publish its draft opinion where the committee shall submit the draft opinion to another committee before the final opinion is delivered. Both the wording of the rule and the substantive considerations according to the Presidency’s opinion that a draft ballot should not be published. The rule is proposed to be clarified in such a way that it is not permitted to publish an adjustment until it is finally issued and that a set-off is to be delivered to the Storting Administration as soon as possible. Constitutional proposals have so far not been made orally in the Grand Meeting. Nor have they been multiplied and distributed separately, printed together in a document only when the third increase in the electoral period is over – contrary to private proposals, which are put forward orally and printed on an ongoing basis. The Presidency proposes that constitutional proposals should also be submitted orally at the Grand Meeting as soon as possible after they have been submitted and that they should be printed separately as they are presented and referred to. In the second paragraph of Section 29, the Rules of Procedure have some rules on the handling of private legislative proposals by the committee. In particular, if the Committee finds it doubtful that a proposal does not deserve the consent of the Grand Duchy, it should without further stating that the proposal is not acceptable. In the view of the Presidency, the Committees should adopt a greater opinion on the content of all types of private proposals before deciding whether to request an opinion from the Ministry. The Committee should not seek the opinion of the Ministry if the Committee considers that the proposal should not be accepted. The Presidency therefore proposes that the wording of the second paragraph of Section 29 be amended to clarify that the provision applies to all kinds of private proposals, and that the procedures open to new cases under the third paragraph of Section 28 also apply to private legislative proposals. Written vote – in the case of currency without signature – may be used in the Storting only in the case of elections. Today, the Rules of Procedure do not define the cases in which a written vote is to be used in elections. The Presidency proposes in Section 44 that the following voting procedure be used: when several proposals for the same office have been made, when a representative present so requests, or when the assembly adopts it on a proposal from the President. This does not imply significant changes in the practice of elections other than by Presidents and Vice-Presidents. The annual elections of Presidents and Vice-Presidents have always taken place in writing, according to unwritten custom, even though only one proposal has been made for that office. The Presidency considers that there is reason to maintain this practice at the first elections of Presidents and Vice-Presidents. However, the subsequent formations may render it unnecessary to hold a written vote when no proposal for a counter-applicant has been made and when no written vote is required. In addition, it may seem unworthy of the amount of blank votes and ‘stuttering’ that has sometimes been used. Therefore, the Presidency proposes a special rule in Section 4 for the election of Presidents and Vice-Presidents that the first election in the parliamentary term should always be made in writing, but that the subsequent elections during the parliamentary term should follow the general rules on elections proposed in Section 44. Finally, the Presidency proposes that the deadline for submitting questions to ordinary Question Time be changed from Friday at 0 p.m. 10 a.m. to Thursday 14, so that the departments get a little bit more time to prepare the answers. With these comments, I recommend that the setting be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e266	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e280	At the request of the Presidency, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the President's introduction be set at 10 minutes. The number of other speakers is set to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e287	The test procedure with open committee hearings expires on 30 September of this year. The committee that was set up last year to investigate the control function of the Storting was commissioned to provide a partial inquiry into open committee hearings. The attitude of the Presidency is largely based on the recommendation of this investigation. The sample is of the opinion that the use of open hearings has worked satisfactorily during the trial period and that there is now a basis for introducing this as a permanent scheme. The majority of the sample considers that there are serious grounds for believing that all hearings in the committees will be open and therefore proposes that the general rule be changed to allow hearings of committees to take place for open doors. The majority of the Presidency, all except Ludvigsen, agrees that open hearings become the general rule, but that the Committee may decide to hold a hearing for closed doors ‘if deemed appropriate’. The Ludvigsen proposes to maintain the general rule that hearings take place for closed doors. With regard to whether open committee hearings can be held at the same time as meetings in the Grand Duchy or departments, another majority of the Presidency – Kolle Grondahl, Schaug and Ludvigsen – agrees to continue today’s ban on this. The minority in the Presidency proposes that, by way of exception, open hearings may be held at the same time as plenary or section meetings. The same majority of the Presidency agrees with the proposal to maintain the current rule that a committee hearing requires a majority decision in the Committee. The majority of the Presidency is also in favour of continuing the rule that the Committee by a normal majority decides who is to be invited to the hearing. The minority of the Presidency proposes that 1/3 of the members of the Committee may require that consultation be held and decide on the persons to be invited to meet. If the changes proposed in this setting are adopted, the conditions must be made so that several open hearings can be held at the same time. The existing committee areas would not be appropriate for open hearings. It is therefore necessary to carry out some building work within the building mass of the Storting in order to make more rooms suitable for open hearings. It will take some time to complete these works. Following consultation with the group leaders, a majority of the Presidency has concluded that it may be problematic for the committees to practise a general rule on open consultations already during the first harvest of a new parliamentary term. For this reason, the majority, all except Hans J. Røsjorde, have concluded that the new scheme should not be implemented until 1 January 2002. As a result, the present Rules of Procedure on open committee hearings are proposed to be extended until that date. Hans J. Røsjorde follows the committee's proposal that the new rules should enter into force on 1 October of this year. The Presidency considers that there is only a small need to take a stenographic record of a hearing, except for audit hearings. That is why the Presidency proposes that the Presidency should be consulted if a committee wants a stenographic record of a matter which is not a matter for scrutiny. For hearings where no stenographic record is to be taken, the Committee may decide to make audio-tape recordings and the Committee may decide to print the audio-tape recordings later. Under the new rules proposed in Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committees themselves have to define the detailed procedure for their hearings. However, the sample has found that there is a need for firmer and more detailed rules on open hearings in control cases and has proposed a separate regulation for such hearings. Control cases are defined as all matters dealt with in the Control and Constitutional Committee, with some exceptions. In the other committees, the rules on control hearings apply when the purpose of the hearing is to clarify or assess an earlier actual course of events. The Presidency proposes that the Storting adopt a regulation for open hearings, but does not consider it natural to grant a minority the right to require other hearings to be held in accordance with the rules governing hearings. The Presidency considers that it is up to the Committee itself, acting by a normal majority, to decide that other hearings should also be conducted in accordance with the rules of scrutiny. The Committee has proposed that the Committee should elect a special chairperson for the hearings in each control case and that, for this purpose, a different member of the committee or a representative of the majority who is not a member of the committee may be elected. The Presidency does not agree with this. The Presidency considers that the meeting management should also be carried out by the committee management during the hearings. We also do not follow up the proposal from the committee that the chairperson should not be able to ask questions. However, we state that if the chairperson of the committee asks questions, the meeting management should be left to the Vice-Chairman, possibly the elected secretary. The committee has proposed that, for each hearing, two main authors be appointed in addition to the rapporteur and that they be given special time to ask questions. The Presidency proposes that the Committees may appoint principal investigators and does not propose that one third of the members of the Committee may require the choice of a principal investigator. In this section, an addendum to the Rules of Procedure is proposed for the convening of a committee meeting to be published before the meeting, in the event of a look-up in the main building. The agenda of the meeting shall be included in the notice. By letter to the Committees, the Presidency has requested that the call for public meetings should also include information on hearings and on who should meet for consultation. In Document No: 8:31 have representatives Lars Sponheim and Gunnar Kvassheim, among others. proposed that a registration system be proposed for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of an organised interest, in order to influence the Storting on matters for consideration. The Presidency does not consider it necessary to propose a separate registration system, because we believe that the announcement of who meets in committee meetings is the main intention of Document No. 8:31. In addition, we believe that open committee hearings will also help to make the activities of stakeholder organisations and lobbyists visible to Stortinget. With these comments, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e322	I've been delighted to lead the work on the division of open hearings, and I'm very pleased that the Presidency, in all of this, joins the plural setting that results from this selection. When we see today how little interest there is in the staging room for this with open hearings compared to what it was five years ago, when we discussed open hearings that time, it very clear that it has a good order, which should continue as a permanent arrangement. It also shows the number of rings at this time. There have been 17 hearings, and eight of them have been in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We're now going to introduce open ears as a rule – all unbecoming Right is on it – and I think that's very good. It should be such that most of what goes on in the Storting should be open. With almost 16 years of experience from Stortinget, I've been thinking about whether some of the rings I've been on should have been closed. But I can't think of one that should have been closed. All experience suggests that openness in relation to hearings in committees is entirely natural. I believe that both individuals, groups, organisations and different media may be better able to obtain information on specific issues if openness becomes the general rule. There is also greater openness when it comes to how the individual organisation tries to influence the Storting. It is clear that openness in a democracy is important in itself. In fact, I also believe that openness can help raise the quality of the information that Stortinget receives, because openness allows people to make better representations, and interest groups can help both to correct and to complement each other. I think openness is a premise that the parties to the various cases have a possibility to intervene in their arguments and even present any contradictions. This I believe may initially be better for the Storting as a decision-making body. When it comes to having open ears at the same time as there's a meeting in the main hall, I'm very happy that the Labour Party and the Right agree that it should not happen. The stork must be the country's front hall and armchair. So when the top policy forum is to debate, and political decisions are to be taken, one cannot sit in the ears of the different committees. So it's a very important principle that there's no parallelity there. We're all concerned that trade committees are an active tool that Stortinget has set down to work better as a whole, and that the committees themselves are not supposed to be own bodies that are the most important ones to be in, but that it is still the hall that is the important arena. This I believe is a very important principle, and as I said, I am pleased that no changes have been made to it. Of course, I agree entirely with the Presidency that it is not necessary to take a stenographic record in all contexts. The Church, Education and Research Committee has just had a hearing when it comes to the quality reform in higher education, where we made up an almost equal hearing to what we are going to adopt today, and I want to say that it worked very well. We did not have a stenographic record, but we tried to put the ring up in line with the guidelines that are going to be adopted in the Rules of Procedure today. I believe at all that one has come to a good order in the Presidency. I see that there are some small things that one does not agree with, but these I think are somewhat subordinate. As I said, I am pleased that the plurality of the Presidency is joining the plurality of the selection. The size also adheres to the key principles. When it comes to implementation, I don't really see whether it will be in October of this year or January of next year. Here I think the presidency has found a practical arrangement that allows one to make this work, and that's actually the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e341	On behalf of the Right, I address proposal No. 4, reproduced on page 6. Here I propose, on behalf of the Right, that the hearings of the committees should usually be held for closed doors. However, it should be entirely up to the Committee to decide for itself whether they want a hearing to take place for open doors – that is to say, in whole or in part. A normal majority shall normally determine the degree of openness or abstinence. It is therefore immediately necessary to stress that the right clearly distinguishes between control hearings and normal committee hearings. Audit hearings should – as they are now – be conducted in full transparency, and our proposal cannot be interpreted as having fundamental objections to transparency in general. We have no difficulty in understanding the need for transparency about what is going on in the hearings, where politicians and businesses, organisations and individuals meet to exchange information and influence decisions to be taken in the Stortinget. In this way, the Right obviously understands the majority's argument as expressed both in Document No. 19 and of the majority in the Presidency's position that we are dealing with today. I also refer to the contributions of the President-in-Office and her statement. Right-wing reluctance to a general rule that all committee hearings should be transparent is based on counter-representation for more practical reasons. We believe that progress in the work of the committees will be hampered in such a way that the benefits of transparency do not outweigh the disadvantages. In our opinion, the organisation of the everyday lives of the representatives, committees and sizes is becoming much more demanding and the working conditions are reduced to such an extent that they cannot be defended. For the right, it is obvious that all committee hearings – and that is, several hundred each year – take place at times when the Stortinget or Odelstinget do not meet, as is the practice today when we have open hearings. The proposal will undoubtedly bring much more night and evening meetings in the committees, with the disadvantages it brings. Practical considerations and problems relating to the organisation of so many open committee hearings cannot, in our opinion, be defended on the basis of what has to be achieved by greater transparency, as we propose, open the hearings by a normal majority of the committee. For those of us who have followed some budgetary procedures in a busy committee harvest, the working situation is seen to be far worse than it already is, with the majority's position. Well, the majority argues that the number of committee hearings will go down when they get open, but then, in the Right's opinion, the argument falls in a way on its own unfairness. If you're going to use openness to bring down the number of hearings, you kind of get the good enemy of good, and you can ask, where is the democratic advance? The right considers it important that as much as possible be given the opportunity to promote its case and its arguments for the Committees of the European Parliament. In my view, the majority's proposals could easily lead to the transfer of the hearings from the committees to the fractions, and once again to the question: where is the democratic advance? I also refer to the argument that the Right Representative in the sample, Inge Wohnning, has included in Document No. 19), the mid-term review of the open hearings provided by the sample investigating the control functions of the Storting. It is therefore of little use to the right to include in the concept of hearing all the different types of information used by the Committees. Our view is that the majority's proposal introduces a regulatory framework for the work of the committees based on such a comprehensive and undifferentiated concept of consultation that it could have far-reaching and unintended adverse consequences for the functioning and functioning of the Storting and Representatives. As I have already said, the Right believes that the reasons that can be stated in favour of the principle of transparency in hearings are of a principle nature and therefore must be given decisive importance. On the other hand, with regard to the usual work of the Committee and through it the ongoing consultations on information exchange, the considerations of full transparency in committee hearings could not be set out in the same way. Here, the Right believes that we need a far more pragmatic approach, and then practical consideration must be given to the assessment in a far different way than to the verification hearings. In other words, for the Right, the practical arguments that speak against transparency as a general rule for all external information gathering are heavier than the pragmatic arguments that speak for. That is why, on behalf of the Right, I am promoting an alternative to the first and second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 21 in relation to what the majority has put at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e369	Svein Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e372	I think it is an important day today, when, after all probability, the Storting is now going to decide that there will be a turnaround in the principles of hearings, that everyone should be open, rather than that it should be decided specifically that there should be open consultation. This is an important step on the way to even greater openness in the Stortinget. Personally, I am of the opinion that even the Storting Committee meetings should normally be open. So far it hasn't been possible to go in this direction, but at least it's going a long way in this direction. I remember when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee visited the Canadian Parliament a few years ago. All committee meetings were open and broadcast on television on their own channels. We told them that our meetings were always secret, and that they were also secret when we had visits from interest groups that were going to file their case. Then we got the question: why in the world are you then participating in committee work and in committee meetings? It was a little thought-provoking, because it is the political exchanges with which the voters should be made aware. Now, at least the hearings will be open, and it will be very useful, not only for transparency to the media, but also because it means changes in practice, by allowing the committee settings to refer to information received orally at a hearing, which we cannot do today. What's the point of hearings when you can't use the information that comes orally? In addition, it will be possible – let’s say – competing stakeholder organisations to be present and hear what the competitor says to a committee. It itself will also be a step in the right direction. If, for example: The financial committee’s NHO says that something LO deeply disagrees with and believes that it is actually wrong, the LO could be present and arrest – later on at least – both in public debate and when they have to express themselves, what has been presented. When they meet separately today, that opportunity will not exist. That's why it's a big day when the committee hearings are now opening. The reason why I have also been in favour of a third of the members of the Committees who should be able to request a hearing and who should also be able to determine who they will hear is that hearings are primarily part of a whole in relation to the control activities of the Grand Duchy. Based on the attitudes of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Workers' Party, there is little evidence that we will have a majority government in the near future, but if we think that a majority government is a system, the possibility for the minority to carry out its control activities will, of course, be greatly weakened when there is a majority in the Committee that needs to be consulted and consulted. And so when the majority represents the Government, you can block for the necessary control activities. I think it is a pity that the proposals for minority rights should not be put in place at this stage. Minority rights in a parliament where there is a majority government at the time is a major, important democratic security valve so that not the majority – let's say – stops the control activities of the Stortinget as one of its main tasks. That's what minority rights have to be understood. As I said, this isn't something that's interesting in the near future, because of the resistance of certain parties to majority governments or the ability to get it. Let me also mention that we think the system of open hearings should come into force as soon as possible, and the natural thing is at the dawn. I think some of the practical things are dramatically exaggerated, and I think this should be possible. That is why I would be allowed to raise the proposal of the Presidential Member, Hans J. Røsjorde, as he is dealing with defence committees. I also want to mention that I think there are many others who are involved in committee meetings. The fact that there are not so many people in the room must not be interpreted to mean that there is little interest in this. I have also accepted that the Presidency rejects the proposal of the Committee on the possibility of having a chairperson who is not a committee chair or one who is not on the committee. It's okay, it needs its own reasons, and it could possibly be taken up by those of us who think it would be right, on a later occasion. Now – at the tamp of the session – we have also had no time to follow so well that we can say that it would have been necessary to make our own proposal, and we do not win. But I would like to inform you that the possibility will of course exist in the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e389	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e392	As many people before me have been in the debate, it is an important matter that is up in the Storting today. It is valuable that work is open to the greatest possible extent, both in the Committees and in the European Parliament in general. As stated in the post of the President of the Grand Duchy at the beginning of the debate, there are a number of minorities in the presidency setting. A plurality of the selection, led by Ranveig Frøiland, meant that hearings should be held, and that one should ask for audiences to be heard, if requested by at least one third of the members of the committee. In the Presidency, there is a plurality that suggests that there must be half of the members of the Committee in order for one to be able to demand that hearings be held. Representatives Hans J. Røsjorde, Odd Holten and I have joined in the Presidency in what is the proposal of the plurality of the selection, that one third of the committee's members be enough to demand open hearings. Furthermore, the same members of the Presidency have also meant that one should not be so absolute when it comes to holding open hearings at the same time as there is a meeting in the Storing or in the departments. The majority of the selection I have referred to said that it should be enough to say that if it is possible, one should avoid holding committee hearings at the same time as meetings in Stortinget or in the departments. The background for a minority in the Presidency to join what the majority in the selection meant is exactly what the representative Carl I. Hagen had to say, that it could lead to a committee meeting quite late in the evening. This may also mean that the committees may well hold fewer hearings, just to avoid them having their evening and nightmoons. I will be able to address what is proposed by the minority in the Presidency, the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, from Hans J. Røssorde, Odd Holten, and Jorunn Ringstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e407	Jorunn Ringstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e410	It is a historic and positive day when the Storting decides to reflect the principle of hearings, and a clear majority confirms it. At the same time, there have been some political movements, to which I shall make a brief comment. The working party has moved from really not to be for this to be for, and the Right, for which in principle was for, has moved to some sort of pragmatic justification for not being too. I take note of that. Apart from the fundamental issues such as the transparency of citizens in the work of the Storting, and not least questions about hearings, where we can see who is trying to influence through evidence, I think it should be subject to principal considerations rather than pragmatic considerations. Based on my experience with the committee system in Stortinget, I think you can actually deal with the pragmatic considerations in a good and proper way. I have no experience that suggests that it is not. I therefore think you should take the principle, and I wonder if it might be behind the representatives of Ludvigsen's thoughts there is some kind of reluctance to let this come out, but I get to stick to the arguments he's used here in the Chamber today. As regards the setting, the Left is on the same lines as the representative of Hagen. It is that according to the control tasks of Stortingen, it is important that a minority should be able to require a hearing and who will meet, so that we will vote in favour of the proposals that have just been taken up by the representative Ringstad on behalf of herself and the others in the Presidency. When it comes to the question of when to hold the hearings, I follow up on what I myself have been doing in the investigation team that has seen this. I think that as far as possible, one should avoid colliding with meetings in Stortinget. But we also need to be able to hold the hearings here, so that I can stand by the proposal that a minority has also taken up here. With regard to the timing of implementation, I am in favour of this being done as soon as possible, and will vote on that point for the proposal promoted by the member of the Presidency Hans J. Røssorde. The Presidency has not followed up that part of Left Document No. Eight proposals on lobbyism and registration. I agree with what is stated by the Presidency, that it is a step in the positive direction when you look at what kind of issues are up for treatment when the hearings are open, and that you know who is going to meet. I fully agree that it is a contribution to gaining insight into the issue of lobbyism. But based on my experience through a long political life, I would say that the lobbyism phenomenon is now developing in such a way that I don't believe these steps are satisfactory in dealing with that question. I will reserve the right to come back to it in the sample I am sitting, which will look at the control tasks of the Storting. The left therefore does not mention any proposal here today. But we know that we have an opportunity to get back to that. It has gradually become so that I have, for my part, been in situations where I have had to tell people that I have to know who they represent if the conversation continues. When the custom that has been among people that we know who they are, and where they come from, is replaced by a culture where we almost have to challenge someone to show open vision, we have come into a situation where we probably have to think through how to ensure that those who are paid and professionally engaged lobbyists can be registered in a way that is known to the public. But as I said, this will reserve the right to come back to through the work done in the sample where I participate as a member.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e430	In the political debate, there are some words of honour that are immediately strong, but which can undoubtedly be problematic. One of them is the concept of openness. Transparency in the general work of the Storting is understood to mean transparency for citizens. Those who are consulted in committee hearings shall be given access to each other's opinions and thus the democratic system shall become more functional. On all the occasions that Stortinget has had debates on open hearings, this has been one approach. As is well known, in 1995 the Stortinge with one vote in favour introduced open hearings. Against this general view, there has always been one view and one reasoning about the functionality of the Storting and the generality of the plenary room in relation to committees and other activities in the house. For my part, I fully agree that the system of the possibility of having open committee hearings is now being made permanent. Not least, I think that the argument is very strong when it comes to the Storting's control of the administration. On the other hand, when it comes to the general preparatory work of the committees, and there is a case-by-case approach, my scepticism is somewhat greater. Well, that's right, like, for example. Odd Einar Dørum said that it is important that the public have an overview of what kind of influence the Storting is exposed to, who influences, and what arguments they use. However, it is also true that a system in which no specific decision can be taken to explain itself to a Grand Committee without public intervention is likely to be a system which will favour the strong and best organised interest groups – those who have the opportunity to prepare, those who have the opportunity to make a public relations and media approach around their activities – while weaker individuals and other interest groups from which the Storting Committees will probably also have a great need to get their views from, will now have more difficulty in coping with that type of competition. With all due respect for transparency, I would say for myself that there is some place you should have the opportunity to come like a Nicodemus at night, it is to the decision-making, highest authority in the country. It's because even those who are afraid of other types of anticonceptions in society as they approach the Greatness should be able to do so with great boldness and with great security. That mechanism, I think, is there anyway. That is why I believe that today's decision to turn so-called flipper, that is. make it normal for the burrowing hearings to be open, leading to two things. This will lead to more people coming through other channels, i.e. to representatives and party groups individually, and I'm afraid that this will eventually lead to what Carl I. Hagen wanted in his post here instead, namely that the committee meetings are going to open. If the committee meetings are opened, we will have a different type of parliamentaryism in Norway from the one we have today. The political debate will then be fought there when the public is there, while the ability of the committees to find a political majority, compromises and other solutions will be highly damaging. That is why a development that I hope will not come, and which I am at least happy that I am not going to experience myself. Finally, I would like to say that because the plenary room is to be the most important body, it must be obvious that it is right – as the Presidency's majority agrees – to say that other public enterprises in the Grand Duchy cannot happen at the same time. It may not be that we have a large hall that is already suspiciously emptied of content and media attention, will lose even more to other parts of the house's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e445	There have been several reforms in the United Kingdom in recent years with regard to our working methods and our rules of procedure. I would like to pay tribute to the President and others who have contributed to it for having proposed and implemented such changes in the operation of the Storting. I think personally that the spontaneous question hour is the most successful of these reforms. But the open hearings have also worked so well, especially when it comes to important control cases, and it is also of the utmost importance that open hearings are held in such cases. So today, the Storting is being invited to reflect the principle, so that all hearings in principle become open, but one can decide that they should not be. I have, after some doubt, found that I think it is right, among other things. on the basis of the argument put forward by the representative Dørum that it may be useful for those who address the Committee to also be subjected to the public search light. We know what they're trying to influence the Storing with, and how they do it. But I just as fully believe that after a relatively short period of time this may lead to a decline in the interest for this type of hearing in the committees. We, who have been on different committees in Stortinget and are involved when different organisations and others come to promote their views, know that this is not so exciting that it is going to require the big media postings. And I therefore believe that the interest of journalists and others in these hearings will gradually be greatly reduced. There is by itself no problem in itself, but I don't think I'm any great prophet when I track that it will evolve. The danger is if it also helps to reduce interest in the important, open hearings in control cases, as we have had some examples of in the last period. If that were to happen, it would be a regrettable consequence. But here I hope that the way we organize this, and the practice that develops, will allow one to maintain the interest in these important hearings, and then get the interest for those who are of lesser importance, rather than sink. I would like to limit myself to the view expressed by the representative Hagen when he hoped that this would be part of a development that would also open up the usual discussions in the committees – the usual committee meetings. I agree with Mr Thoresen's representative. I do not believe that there will be any progress for democracy, for parliamentaryism and for the work of the Grand Duchy, even if one has such a practice in a good number of other countries. What will happen if the general committee discussions are opened is that the Committee as the arena for finding compromise solutions, which are of particular importance, especially in the case of minority governments, will be destroyed. It is clear that it will be difficult for parties and representatives to suggest compromise solutions and leave their primary positions, etc. in a committee meeting if these are open, and they can then be used — not to say abused — by the media. I would therefore like to warn against such a development. One could say that some of this has already happened. We know that there is a great deal of leakage from the Committee's discussions. The batches run out of there and not only announce their own positions, but unfortunately others – which should not take place and which can lead to the real discussions being moved into other forums. At least when the Committee as a compromise forum is destroyed, this will be the case if the discussions are opened. Now, at least the representative Tom Thoresen is free to experience this, since he unfortunately leaves Stortinget after this session. I hope, even though I have said yes to a new period, that I will not be able to experience this in the years to come, but that the committees may still be closed in the context of ordinary discussions, and be an arena for real discussions and compromises. Moreover, I think it is reasonable for a minority of 1/3 of the committees to be able to request open hearings. It has something to do with minority interest, and I think that such a large minority as 1/3 should have such a right. On that point, I support the proposal made by a member of the Presidency representative Jorunn Ringstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e458	The representative Carl I. Hagen claimed that this is a great day in the history of the Storting. I'm not sure. It'll show up. On the other hand, I am sure of another thing, namely that this is going to create longer days in the history of the Storting in the future. What is the disagreement in the suspension and in the underlying investigation by the Frøiland Committee is not a disagreement of a principle nature. There is consensus on the intentions, namely that the work of the Grand Duchy should be as open as possible and that the work of the national Parliament should be transparent. However, it is also agreed that it is important that the work of the national Parliament can be organised with a view to optimum quality, i.e. that the work can be carried out in the most thorough and sound manner possible. My starting point has been that the Stortinget as a legislative and admissibility authority in this country has many different types of tasks. The task of control of management is a special one in terms of transparency. Therefore, my reasoning has been that it is not entirely certain to strengthen this side of Storting's business by aligning it with all the aspects of Storting's business that have to do with preliminary information gathering. My fear has been that, on the contrary, one could risk compromising the qualitatively specific task of controlling the administration. Who will get right in this, only the future will be able to show. But let me point out that there is an element of paradoxicalness in the majority's view, when, as one of the arguments for making transparency normal, it claims that it could lead to a reorganization of the number of meetings with external groups within the committees. This refers to the dilemma, namely that in Storting's work at all times there will also be a need for some forms of communication that are not open to the public and to the media. The representative Hagen suggested that the next step in the process he saw in the extension of today's reform would be that the meetings of the committees would also be open. I agree with the representatives who have said that they believe this will be a very unfortunate development. All you want to achieve with that is that the consensus-building processes that are necessary in the preparation of major issues will be pushed out of the committees. The result will be less transparency than what we have today. The disagreement in this matter is, as I said, not of a principle nature. There's a disagreement about what's the likely effects of what we're adopting today. That's why I'm going to end by saying that I hope that the intentions that we're in common can be met by reflecting today's principle for committee hearings. In that respect, I hope that I am mistaken in my assessment of what will be the likely effects. The transparency of citizens in the work of the Grand Duchy is important. That the work of the Storting can be qualitatively as good as possible is important. There is the balance point between these two reasons we are discussing, and I will still conclude that the balance point is best located at the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e473	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e487	At the request of the Presidency, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the rapporteur's introduction be set at 10 minutes. The number of other speakers is set to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e494	The proposal now presented represents the greatest and most important contribution to improving the working conditions of large-scale representatives over several decades. In general, the Presidency supports the proposals of the Brørby Committee. The parliamentary groups shall be provided with the means to reward one adviser or secretary for each representative. In addition, each group, regardless of its size, shall have two persons as a basic crew. In krona, the proposal implies that the grants to the groups will almost double compared to the current level when the reform is fully implemented over a 2-3 year period. The groups will be able to employ more than 60 new employees and have a slightly more liberal economy than they have now. The strengthening of the Group Secretariats responds to a clearly expressed request from the representatives for more work assistance. A survey of representatives revealed that the main problem for representatives was a lack of time. It might not be a particularly surprising revelation. However, the setting of the Brørby Committee testifies to the fact that the sample has thought far more than to ensure that the individual representative is given help in replying to letters and e-mails. It is about the possibility to assume the ombudsman role in their own district, and the possibility of working more closely on the principal issues. And the selection has been thinking in principle about how the conditions of power in our society and in the political processes evolve. If Stortinget, i.e. The representatives and the party groups are not equipped to meet increasingly resource-intensive political actors and to adapt to new forms of action and channels of political work, we risk that more and more important decisions are actually taken in other forums. However, for my own part, I would add that no matter how many employees secretaries or advisers become associated with the groups, their work will only have to be a supporting function for the representatives in their work. It must never be the case that advisers take more or less responsibility for the political mission – the political design or the political work – that the representatives have received from their voters. A majority of the Presidency agrees with the proposal of the Brørby Committee to amend the rules for the coverage of the domestic service requirements of the EEAS. Thereafter, the Storting will cover all service requirements domestically according to the rules of the country’s travel regulations. The committee has proposed a law prohibiting certain forms of financial support to the groups and representatives. The Presidency has chosen not to support this, because it will be difficult to draw a line between what should be prohibited and what should be allowed, and it may be problematic to interpret and enforce such a ban. Also at a few other, smaller points, the presidency's setting differs from the selection. We have e.g. did not opt for a separate addendum in the remuneration of the members of the Presidency. Instead, we propose a continuation of the current system, but with a modest increase in the coverage of extra costs. The majority and minority of the Presidency also have a slightly different twist from the Brørby Committee on how to arrange the individual support of a representative who leaves his party during the ageing period. Let me express the profitable hope that this device will rarely apply in the coming time. With these comments, I recommend that Stortinget adopt the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e517	I'm just going to make some additional comments on what the prime minister now said. Since I became a representative in 1985, i.e. almost 16 years ago, and until today the working conditions of the representatives have improved considerably. But the environment around the representatives and the personification also imposes new demands on the population to be elected in the Stortinget. Not just attending international meetings and meetings, but the requirement of individual ability to stand up, to address their own issues, to maintain good contact with voters in their own county, their own party and individuals, necessitates a completely different organisation around the representatives. With the presidency's attitude, new steps are being taken to enable representatives to provide even more opportunities for their voters. The principle of one employee in the batch groups per A representative shall be implemented within three years and will provide a good basis for providing representatives with personal advice and guidance. The proposals that were promoted from the sample I led built, among other things. responses from representatives through a survey. Well, there were many different suggestions, ranging from the desire for larger lunches to be able to hire their own personal advisor – my one and only adviser. With regard to the latter, it is not possible for individuals to hire their own adviser; it is the groups that are to be responsible for the employers. But a major feature of the answers from the representatives was that everyone wanted, not to say, more personal assistance. That's what they're going to get. Another proposal on which the sample spent a lot of time was differentiated remuneration among representatives. Today, the members of the Presidency have a different remuneration than the representatives of the rest. Actually, it's called representation compensation, but it's actually pay, and it's reported as it is. The selection therefore considered that a clean-up was necessary. The majority of the sample said that only the members of the Presidency should be paid higher than the rest of the representatives, and here I would like to point out that in a number of other countries have e.g. The President of Parliament, as it is called, is the same remuneration as the Prime Minister of the country. I take note that the Presidency will continue today's arrangement. Finally, it is really a promise to improve working conditions and not least the daily lives of the representatives we are invited to make decisions today. It's a completely necessary promise, many say, that's to facilitate that those who are going to be representatives over the next four years will have a completely different opportunity than those who are going out of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e532	Let me first say that in the years to come, the working conditions of the wholesalers will of course be far, far better. Personally, I think you're getting closer to a limit, because, as the prime minister pointed out, there may be a danger that advisers will eventually actually take over too much of the work of the representatives. It is a personal comment that needs to be seen on the basis that I first came here in 1974, and at that time there was one office secretary for the first 10 storehouse representatives. You had to have 11 to get two, and you had to have 21 to get three office secretaries, and that was something similar when it was about group secretaries. So with what is now going to be adopted, there's going to be a pretty dramatic improvement with principle one by one. And it should have been really interesting to have heard the views of former President Guttorm Hansen on the promise that is now being made. So I'll go into this with the compensations. I have noticed that the presidency is more modest than the selection was, and we take note of it for our part. I would like to refer to the proposal that was included in the nomination of our member of the Presidency, Hans J. Røsjorde, to also offer a remuneration to committee leaders and vice-presidents. The size is, of course, an institution where a very different principle has been introduced than in most other places, for there is equal pay for different jobs. So there's been the representation allowance for members of the Presidency as an arrangement. I actually think it should have been as the sample says, not a representation allowance, but a higher remuneration, and I also think it would have been natural for committee leaders and vice-leaders to get. In most workplaces, there are, in fact, some differences because you have responsibility, also power, but it belongs together. That is why it should at least be carefully introduced into the Stortinge in relation to Stortinge's own trustees. Some may claim that parliamentary leaders also have their own position on a lot of work, but in our opinion it is a party matter. If they think it's right, they get to do something about it. But the leaders of the committees, i.e. the presidency, the leaders and the vice-chairs of the committees, should also have a somewhat higher remuneration. Then there's this thing about the arrangement when representatives step out of a group, both in relation to the group and to the representatives who choose to do so. The President-in-Office expressed the hope that this should be a scheme that rarely applies, and I agree with the President-in-Office's opinion in that area. There should be something that applies very rarely. But what the majority of the Presidency and the sample do is, of course, to stimulate it – it is a direct stimulus that is now being implemented. And it is actually a stimulus to major problems within the party groups. So now a representative who might be a little dissatisfied knows that by pulling out of his group, he punishes that group on the wallet with 400,000 dollars in less support, while he or she himself will receive 200,000 dollars more per. years. So even if it's accounting and auditing, there's a lot of ways to get receipts because you've been using consulting services – even in a close family, you can do it without a problem. Of course, it will be taxed and must be stated. But you want to enrich yourself by pulling out of your group, punishing the group. And it's a pretty tough tool within a big group, what the majority now gives to those who might have a different view and are a little oppositional, and who want to use that tool to threaten. So here I think the majority is on wild roads. I actually think you should think about who it is that has made us here, and it's the voters. Most of them are elected as members of a party, and then it should be the group for which they are elected, which retains the means to represent the voters who have elected them. The last thing I want to mention is our proposal, no. 3, that legislation on service claims should continue as at present. It is in order to have a certain control mechanism against unnecessary travel. So I allow myself to take up the suggestions No. 1, 2 and 3 and draw attention to that in proposal No. 1 shall be III and not II C. That's the right thing to do when you look at the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e543	It shall be noted. The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, [[See page 3618]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e559	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e573	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e587	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e601	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e615	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into 5 minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e622	Discussions between the State, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the Organisation for the disabled and the LO on the regulation of the basic amount took place on 3 and 4 May this year. During these discussions, the organisations submitted a requirement for a total adjustment of 5,35 p.m. to the basic amount, as well as for the parties to agree on a contingency plan for the basic amount to compensate for past under-regulations. In order to achieve the two-thirds pension target in 2007, organisations required an increase of the basic amount of 2.5 pst. on the pension rate annually in addition to the annual regulation. During the discussions, the state and the organisations agreed on the increase in the basic amount of the year, and it was set at NOK 2 270 with effect from 1 May this year. This will mean an increase of 4.6 pst. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, refers to the agreement reached between the parties in the discussions and therefore supports the Government’s proposal to regulate the basic amount of NOK 2270 from 1 May onwards. With regard to the issues surrounding the agreement to extend leave for employees by four days in the course of the 2000 wage settlement, the majority, with the exception of the Advance Party, emphasises that the pension is to compensate for the loss of work income and not the loss of leave. Moreover, the majority do not support the requirement for an escalation plan until 2007, so that full earnings in the population are two-thirds of employee income. The Progress Party is very concerned about the underregulation of the basic amount of the population's security that has taken place over a number of years. As a result, Norwegian pensioners have experienced a significantly worse development in their purchasing power than the employees have. This is a development which the Progress Party has for a number of years tried to reverse without hearing from the majority in this Chamber. The majority tend to go for the Government's proposals no matter what the result. If you want a few to develop the pension that is in line with the intentions of 1967, you can no longer just toe your hands and see another way every time the issues appear. What is needed now is action, and not just celebrations that one has come to an agreement in the settlement of the year. It is gratifying that one has agreed this year, but what about the underregulation that has taken place in previous years? And why is it only SV that supports the Progress Party's proposal to escalate the basic amount by 2.5 pst. per year to achieve the two-thirds pension target in 2007? The Progress Party can no longer sit still and see that Norwegian pensioners are a balancing item in the budgets. The progress party takes the pensioners seriously, and is grateful for the efforts they have made through a long life. Therefore, it is under-regulation of the basic amount that has taken place for a number of years, apart from a shame. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the basic amount be set at NOK 53 470 from 1 May and not NOK 51 360, as proposed by the Government and the majority. With the proposals of the Progress Party, we recover the value of the basic amount as it was in 1990. The Progress Party, together with SV, also promotes proposals for a stepping-up plan up to 2007, which is in line with the wishes of the organisations. I am promoting the proposals contained in the vote where the Progress Party is alone or is with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e650	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e653	In the discussions between the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association, the Organisation for the disabled, the Landsorganisation in Norway and the Government, agreement was reached this year on the social security settlement of the year. The majority of the Committee emphasises that earning extra holiday days does not lead to an increase in annual pay. The majority believe it is right that the pension compensates for the loss of labour income and not the loss of holidays. The minimum lump sum will increase by NOK 4068 to NOK 92 100 and by NOK 7008 to NOK 158 520 for married couples. For those who have not earned additional professional participation credits, the special supplement is 79,33 pst. of the basic amount at high rates and 74 pst. at low rates. The new guidelines adopted in the 1999 budget were also used this year. Both the expected and historical wage developments in determining the basic amount are taken into account. The majority agree that the basic amount is increased by 4.6 pst. This growth in the basic amount, and therefore also the growth of the supplementary pension, results in an income development for pensioners in line with those who are economically active. In the context of previous adjustments to the basic amount, elements other than an increase in the basic amount have also been added at the request of the organisations, e.g.: the housing aid scheme, the guarantee pension for the unborn child and the escalation of the special supplement, as I mentioned earlier. The minimum pension for both single and married couples has, on average, increased more than the wage growth in the period 1967-2000. It should also be mentioned that the specific tax rules for pensioners have been maintained. In 2001, the full amount of the special deduction in income is DKK 17 640. Also the special tax delimitation rule and the social security rate for pension income of 3 pst. must be included in comparison with economically active. Questions about how much more money pensioners will receive will have to be considered in the context of the provision and self-payment of health and care services, when these needs are reported. The working party will provide assistance as necessary, irrespective of geography and wallet. We look forward to clarifying the main objectives and principles of an overall pension system in the context of the work of the newly appointed pension Commission. There is now the debate on all aspects of our pension system should come. The challenges facing organisations are to influence the Pension Commission in advance of the review to be carried out. It is now time for us all to take part in the discussion on the distribution of pensions between working and non-working, between high-paid and low-paid and between women and men. We should all get knowledge of how to distribute the money we have between generations. We can now participate in the discussion on the distribution of taxes between employed and retired persons. The Pension Commission relies on all of us as responsible citizens of society and affects individual party organisations to find good solutions for the future. The majority support the Government's proposal to increase the basic amount from 1 May this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e683	I will address the last words of the previous speaker, to find ‘good solutions for the future’. That was exactly what was the basis for the 1967 provisions on popular security, to find good solutions for the future. The future of that time is our present. And those who have paid in confidence that the assumptions of 1967 would be followed up in annual adjustments have been tricked in many ways. I understand that pensioners feel that they are being sidetracked in relation to their own income development. It's those who are still in working age and talk about their own future, who make the premises for those who have paid in. They are not getting back today, today's pensioners, what they have paid for. It was a prerequisite for an adjustment of the basic amount that was not followed up in the annual social security statements. It's true, as they say, that the additional amount has been raised. But for those who have paid in relation to their income, there is little comfort in the fact that those who have not paid in receive more. By the way we have dealt with pensionstopping, we are getting a steady convergence in income base between those who have paid in confidence that they will get this again when they become pensioners and those who have not paid in – those who are the minimum pensioners. And of course, our minimum pensioners are going to have a worthy old age. They'll have enough to live off them too, of course they will. However, removing the value of the labour input made by economically active people into the public interest is not correct. So that our pensioners' organizations feel that they're being tricked, I understand very well. One also undermines the argument to set aside money in an oil fund to secure future pensions, when one at the same time sees that pension payment premiums are changing all the way. I must also join in what the Socialist Left Party says, that it is difficult to intervene in an agreed settlement, but I will nevertheless signal that it is clear from the Coastal Party that the basic amount should be adjusted so that it should be as large as it should be in relation to the assumptions underlying the adoption of the People's Security Act in 1967. And that has to happen through the annual pension adjustments. It's just that it's a little hard for the pensioners to go to strike. They have little choice but to accept a social security settlement. This is a matter that the Storting should not exploit, and it is to a large extent a matter that the country’s negotiators should not exploit in their negotiations with the pensioners’ organisations. Annual adjustments in the basic amount are seen in the Coastal Party as absolutely necessary. After all, the basic amount is also the starting point for other rights within the area of popular protection, so I hope that the Council of State is concerned that there are gradually more people in the Grand Duchy who believe that the way in which retirement services are done is not worthy of the Norwegian State, and that something should be done about this in the years to come. The Coastal Party will support the joint proposal of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left which is here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e698	I'm not going to extend the debate that much, but I need to stress what SV writes in his remark that we feel a commitment to what was the starting point of popular peace, and that we should follow it up. In addition, it is well-known, of course, that a pension commission has been set up, and it is clear that it needs to look at the principles of ensuring pensions for the future. I hear from the debate that there is a little different perception of how the pension system we now have is. It's not an insurance system to get what you pay out in principle. It is a solidarity system, as it is now, where pensions are largely paid out as current operating costs above the government budget. And that's another way to organize it than one could get the impression that someone meant it was. In addition, I need a brief comment to adjust the amount in relation to a percentage increase. A little general percentage indicates that a certain percentage of a small amount of money is small, while the same percentage of a high amount is many dollars. And putting on such a principle makes you get the same percentage and apparently the same amount of money. But the one who has little from before, gets little, and the one who has a lot from before, gets a lot. So there's reason to put some question mark on the percentage of such increases, at least for those who want the differences in Norway to decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e707	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e710	In the case of the incomprehensible riches received by the Norwegian State, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg often points out that the most sensible thing to do is to save them to cover future pensions – that is, to cover pensions for those who may become pensioners in 10, 15 or 20 years. Why in the world is it not for the huge income that Norway now receives and that Norway has benefited from – the revised national budget shows that only in 2001 will we have a surplus of DKK 200 billion in the state budget – to cater for those who are already pensioners? It is a major question on the part of the Progress Party. Why are only those who are my age and at Jens Stoltenberg's age who will benefit from it? Why shouldn't those today who are 70, 80 and 90 years old be able to benefit from a slightly higher pension? Therefore, the Progress Party refuses to join this so-called social security settlement, where one party, namely the pensioners, has no means to oppose – in addition to the fact that the largest of the organisations is largely run by the LO and the Workers' Party, in the same way that the LO is. Then it is not a real social security settlement. That is why we are promoting proposals to recreate the value of the basic amount of what it was in 1990. This is a very moderate proposal. At the same time, we need to be aware of the fact that we have too poor systems in health and elderly care services and in medicine. We think it's incredible, when we can afford, very good advice, that the majority will not participate in giving our pensioners better pensions, and at least introduce the principle that what was in the system of popular fear at the time of its adoption, which was asserted from 1970, is to be trusted. In previous years, it has been shown that the country has, occasionally, been in a difficult situation. You can't show that right now. That's why I think it's embarrassing that, in particular, perhaps the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg do not agree with our proposal to follow up the demands of the organisations on an escalating plan, so that the basic amount again gets its original value in seven years, in 2007. I actually think it's embarrassing that you just think about your own generation and not the generation that was before us. That's why I would have hoped that this time, when we get such a good economy, we could raise all pensioners' incomes to a more sound level than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e719	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e733	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e744	Nearly a year ago, we discussed a private proposal to appoint an independent investigation commission to look at all aspects of the treatment of the former pioneers in the North Sea. It was then a unanimous social committee that recommended this. Our conclusions were based on the results of the Kromberg Committee on Health and Safety at Diving Activities, and the Habberstad Committee to follow up and coordinate the recommendations of the Kromberg Committee. The Committee was pleased that persons with potential diving diseases were referred to Haukeland hospitals by the social security offices. Together with the Norwegian Underwater Technology Center – NUTEC – this hospital has conducted long-term studies of divers and found links between diving and central nervous system damage. The divers now get the best professional skills we have in this field. It was also gratifying that new guidelines for health studies of divers had been issued, and it was not least positive that the pioneer divers received a special compensation of up to NOK 200,000 as a one-off amount. It was seen as a recognition that society has a moral responsibility in relation to this profession. The fact that a joint committee nevertheless wanted a review commission is probably due to the meeting with the pioneer divers. It made a strong impression on all of us. There were formerly top ten men who were handpicked to carry out advanced deep dives. Under extreme conditions, groundbreaking and demanding work was carried out in some fatal situations. When the oil adventure started for Norway, we didn't have technology that could do this work unmanned, and the North Sea divers were key personnel to get the oil up. But that wealth has cost many divers their health. Major transmission injuries and suicide have been reported. Pioneer divers have a unique competence and experience from which an investigation commission can benefit. A unanimous committee asked the Government to consider providing a representative from the North Sea Diving Alliance with observer status. What's happened? It took almost nine months for the Commission itself to be appointed, and the North Sea Diving Alliance did not have an observer position. Representatives John I. Alvheim and Harald Nesvik have in today's Document No. A further 8 proposals asked for such an observer status to be given to the pioneer divers. In addition, they promote proposals to extend the Commission with a new member who is required to have diving competence. The majority, all lots except the Workers' Party, recommend this. For the majority, it is important that a member has diving competence, so that a person gets to raise issues and ask the right questions. The majority consider it important that the divers, who have knowledge of both today’s and the pioneer days’ situation, be given permanent observer status. They can be of great help to the Commission with all the facts they're in, and they've collected. The proposers also request that the review period be extended until 1990. It is pointed out that the North Sea diver Alliance has financial problems, and it is recommended that they receive project support. An overall committee supports these proposals. Preparedness, regulation, diving procedures and supervision of diving activities have been gradually improved. However, new regulations did not come until 1991, and it was not until 1995 that the Working Environment Act was passed on to the North Sea divers. As case rapporteur, both last year and this year, my wish is that we now get all the facts on the table, and that the pioneers get the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e774	No one is in any doubt that those who worked in the North Sea during the so-called pioneer period did a fantastic job for the country and for what has become an oil adventure for Norway. Especially did the divers make a formidable effort, and many of these active people have had health problems afterwards. This has been discussed in depth by both the Stortinget and the Government, and there was an overall increase in funding to appoint an independent investigation commission to assess all aspects of diving in connection with the North Sea oil industry in the pioneer period. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the Commission has been appointed and that it is composed of competent people who possess legal, medical and technical competence. These are professionals with extensive experience within their fields. I would also like to point out that in the Commission there is a good diving competence. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that a joint committee in the Innst. S. No 243 for 1999 – 2000 asked the Government to consider giving the Northern Sea Diving Alliance an observer status in the Commission. However, on the part of the Workers' Party, we understand that the Government has appointed a non-party commission, and that this is why the Northern Sea Diving Alliance is not part of the Commission. I see it as natural that if the Storting decides that the North Sea Diving Alliance will enter the Commission, other parties in the case will also invoke the same right. I will assume that such a requirement will come. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that it is a good solution that the Commission has set up a contact forum consisting of the social partners. This means that the North Sea Diving Alliance and other stakeholders can have a good dialogue with the Commission. It is also suggested that a representative sample of divers be interviewed. Of course, it is important that the North Sea Diving Alliance is provided with full information about its experience and knowledge through the Commission's contact forum. From the Labour Party we believe that the Government here has ensured a scheme that will ensure that all interested parties will be consulted in connection with the work of the Commission. The working party is concerned that the results of the Commission's work should be optimised and that all aspects should be highlighted. That is why we believe that the Commission's mandate needs to be changed, so that all aspects of pioneering diving in the North Sea will have to be assessed until 1990. The working party believes that it is also necessary to consider providing the North Sea Diving Alliance with a project support for its work. The Labour Party supports what I have said here, against proposal I, for proposal II, against proposal III and for proposal IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e791	Initially, I will be allowed to thank the case rapporteur, Woie Duesund, for an excellent job in this matter. This is a very important matter. It is important because, through the decisions taken today, we show that we are willing to take seriously a group of stakeholders in the history of Norwegian oil extraction. I didn't think we were going to get into a situation where the Stortinget had to intervene in a government-appointed investigation commission on this matter, after the debate we had here in this room when the investigation commission was determined to be set up on a proposal from the Progress Party. It's almost like you're getting tired of thinking that such a commission is needed to find out what really happened to the pioneering dive in the North Sea. The size has indicated that a person should take care of all matters – I repeat all aspects – related to this business. It's not just about legal matters. What caused so many divers to go so wrong – both in terms of the number of deaths during the dive itself, and all those who struggle with great damage? Why has no one taken responsibility? Why is this group of people treated almost as badly as it has been in this country? Why has no one in the past wanted to take these people’s problems seriously? Could it be that you're so afraid of what can come up if you do a proper investigation? I'm just asking the questions. Per. Today, no one has these answers, and that is precisely why the Progress Party and the undersigned have taken these initiatives in order to get the answers to the table. When, after a long period of time, the Government finally implemented the decision of the Stortinge on a review commission to look at all aspects related to the pioneer diving in the North Sea, a commission which, in the opinion of the undersigned and in the opinion of the divers, did not have sufficient diving competence. This is important if a Commission is to be able to ask the right questions and have the right competence to assess the information obtained. I am therefore pleased that this is now getting a majority today. One of the things that disappointed me most about the Government's composition of the Commission was that one chose not to give the North Sea Diving Alliance an observer status in the Commission. This was with respect to report another blow on the face of these people who have given so much to the oil nation of Norway. It is therefore gratifying that it is only the Workers' Party that today does not support the fact that this alliance is now being given such an observer status. I am also pleased that the Progress Party will have a majority to ask the Government to consider providing the North Sea Diving Alliance with a project support, so that it can continue its work on behalf of the pioneers in the North Sea. This is important because those in this alliance have a lot of information and expertise. To date, they have used all their personal resources to do a job on behalf of their colleagues. They also make an unpayable effort for those of the divers who are struggling with major mental problems and often suicidal thoughts. The Kosmo Council of State has previously expressed a positive opinion on a question-time question from the undersigned in assessing such project support. This meant that the alliance sent such an application. This application was answered very quickly — and then with a refusal. I hope the Council of State now looks with other and more positive eyes on this proposal from the Stortinget. I am very pleased that all four proposals which John I. Alvheim and the undersigned have promoted today are being adopted. This isn't just about a commission, it's also about taking a group of people seriously. It is about waking up, and it is not least about being decent to a group of people who have given their lives and their health to the oil nation of Norway. We owe these people a great deal of thanks, and I hope that these proposals from the Progress Party can be a small contribution on the way to giving the divers the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e822	Let me start by saying that all the indications that I am not taking these divers' past and current health problems seriously, I will strongly distance myself from. I started the job of setting up an investigation commission quite immediately after the government of Stoltenberg came to power. I'm going to admit one thing: we actually – in a country with so little environment in the field of diving, both in terms of technical and medical competence – in order to put together a commission that would have such a device that it met the Storting's demand for independence. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Storting itself has called for this Commission to be independent, that is. independent of any environment that has been involved in diving in the North Sea. No exception has been made with regard to the requirement of independence for divers – this requirement of independence applies to divers, employers, North Sea contracting entities and the State, of course. It has therefore been my starting point to manage to put together a commission that should have such a degree of independence. I believe that we have actually succeeded. I also believe that this Commission has the necessary diving skills. To claim that this Commission does not have it, and that the people who are appointed here do not have the necessary competence, I have to say, is a rather violent claim. Of course, in the course of its work the Commission will also have to acquire additional skills in relation to a number of issues to be assessed, both from the diving environment in Norway and not least internationally, in order to form a full picture. But I'm actually assuming that when the Stortinget assumes that we're going to further strengthen the Commission with diving expertise, it's the ambition of the Stortinget that this Commission is still going to be independent, and that's the guideline I have to stick to when I'm going to expand the Commission. For none of the organisations involved in the diving environment in Norway today can be considered independent from what happened in previous times. I probably have to pick up this competence internationally, with the costs that it obviously has. But I assume that the Storting is willing to follow up on the 2002 budget. Of course, with regard to the proposal to extend the review period to 1990, I have no objection whatsoever. Of course, I'm going to follow that with the greatest joy. Then I record that the social committee asks us once again to evaluate the project support, and of course we will. However, the application we received had such a large amount and had such a large claim that it was impossible for me, as the situation was, to comply with it. Of course, I have to engage in dialogue with the North Sea diver Alliance and see if it is possible to get to another project that allows us to be able to follow up with a project support. We thought from the Government that the relationship between being an observer and putting their knowledge and competence at the disposal of the Commission could be ensured through the contact forum that was to be established. I sincerely hope that the Stortinget, saying that the North Sea Diving Alliance should have an observer status, does not believe that the Stortinget should now remove and remove all other diving environments and other organisations that have employees and have had employees who have carried out this important pioneering effort. Because it's not that it's just this alliance that has members who have made a great effort in past times. This must in itself mean, when the Storting expresses itself as it does, that the contact forum that we set up, which contains quite a number of others who carry a great deal of expertise, long experience and many heavy experiences from the past, is also given observer status, so that all considerations are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e838	I would like to say to the Council of State that, of course, everyone who has competence should be brought to the Commission. As rapporteur for both document No. The 8 suggestions about the pioneer divers I have to say I have asked more questions than I have found answers. Why should it take 20 years from the introduction of the Working Environment Act in 1977, until the work dives in the North Sea were first included in 1995? And how was control of the diving systems? What education did the divers have? Why didn't the authorities listen to the diving medical environment earlier? Could Life Have Been Saved? It is difficult to understand that a Norwegian base in the 1970s operated with 32-day wets with 32 consecutive days ashore, while the US Navy operated with 24-day wets and 180 days ashore. Why So Big Differences? There may be good explanations for both these and many other questions. I think an independent investigation commission can give answers. In a letter to the Committee dated 16 May last year, the Minister for Social Affairs wrote: ‘There seems to be some doubt as to whether a review commission, if any, would be able to generate any new knowledge regarding the pioneering time of the divers.’ Is it because, like the Minister of Social Affairs, the Council of State thinks it's going to come out little new, that you haven't hastened to appoint the Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e854	I just have to refer to the short time that passed when I assumed responsibility for the safety in the North Sea until this investigation commission was appointed. I think that should be the answer to the priority I give to work so that all the questions that the rapporteur initially asked could be answered in the future. They may only be granted through such an investigation commission. I have not been in any doubt at any time during the time I have worked on these questions, that no matter what form such an investigation commission was given, a commission had to be set up that answered all these questions – answers for the sake of those who have made this pioneering effort, but also for the future. It is important to analyse these experiences in such a way as to allow thresholds to be set for the laws and rules to be implemented by the authorities, where appropriate, for similar activities in the future. Deep diving in particular I don't think anything has been, that's something that's going to be significantly bigger business with in the future. That is why it is necessary to provide information, and I hope that the Investigation Commission will help provide us with a basis for a better decision-making authority on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e859	It's true, as the Council of State says, that it went quite shortly after he got the case, until the Commission was appointed, but it was because the government moved the department from one department to another. As far as the government in general is concerned, it has taken a long time – one has to admit it. But it is true that the department was transferred to another department, and the Commission was appointed. I would like to refer to a press release from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 2 March 2001, which says: «The Government established on 2 March 2001 an independent investigation commission to carry out an examination of all aspects of diving in connection with the North Sea oil operations during the pioneering period». Then I will further refer to a letter that the Investigation Commission has sent to the North Sea Diving Alliance, where I will quote the following: ‘After the mandate, the Commission shall assess the existence of legal responsibilities. Whether there is a political responsibility or the like is outside and at a different level.’» I would like to ask the Council of State what is included in the concept of ‘a review of all aspects of diving’? I hope that the Council of State can confirm that it is not just the legal basis to be assessed here, but that it intends to follow up the decision of the Grand Council to examine ‘all conditions’ relating to pioneering time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e876	The political implications of a comprehensive study are up to politicians to decide. Of course, the investigation commission is not intended to have any restrictions on the way it chooses to address questions in relation to the mandate — it should be ‘all matters’. If, in turn, this is to result in any of the findings of the review report beyond what is strictly legal, also having political implications, the policy-makers who are to examine the Commission's report will have to decide. It's basically hard to say something definite about. However, when it comes to examining ‘all conditions’, one should of course also consider whether there are some government omissions that have caused us to have a situation in which some have been deprived of their health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e882	The more you look at this matter, the more dark sides you find, the easier it is to see that much has been fat under the carpet for many years, and the easier it is to see that this is a long-term struggle from an environment that is not necessarily as resource-intensive as it was at one time. But this is a struggle that requires considerable resources from those who have led it, who have fought for many years to be heard in the political environment, to be taken seriously by the political environment and not least to be able to assess the situation. The most important thing you do as a politician when you take this kind of thing inward is to admit that mistakes have been made. The worst thing you can do is try to explain away, cover your own back, go into political polemics and create further problems of such a serious matter. I hope that the Council of State, when the Commission goes through all the aspects of this, takes responsibility, places the emphasis on making the necessary concessions and not least on correcting what has been done. Because it's quite obvious that we can make mistakes, but then it should also be equally obvious that you're correcting the mistakes instead of explaining them. I hope that there will be the outcome of the Commission's work and subsequent decisions to be taken by political environments, so that there will be no more human suffering and tragedy in this matter than necessary. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that you are going into this work with a very open mind and not least an inconvenient willingness to settle any mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e887	I am a little uncertain about what the representative Siv Jensen is really asking. Of course, the investigation commission will be provided with all the information that may be available. There should be no attempt, either for bureaucratic or political reasons, to keep information away from the work of the investigation commission, but we do not know the answers until the investigation commission is finished. And I don't know what happened before. Well, I've been active in political life for quite many years, but I personally have no relation to these matters sooner than just to make sure that this investigation commission is appointed. So I can't actually see what should be the reason why the question was asked, except that you want an assurance that all the information will be made available to the Commission. Then I have to say of course – otherwise we would not have a commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e892	It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State says that all information will be provided. Then we will probably also hope that there will never be any discussion, if the question comes, whether the Workers' Party will open its archives or not in this case. I expect that to happen, but it will be a matter that the investigation commission might have to take. Earlier this year, I had a question in the Question Time that went on a project support for the North Sea divers, based on the enormous competence, information they hold, while they have used up all their personal resources, and several have actually gone down personally. My question to the Council of State in this context, after hearing the inauguration of the Council of State, where he also says this time that he will take a positive view of this enquiry, is: Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the North Sea Diving Alliance so that you can enter into a dialogue with a view to trying to get a project support for it, so that you can access the enormous competence and information that these people hold? Here is a huge material that you can access if you just make sure that the funds are there. So will the Council of State take such an initiative, and a rapid initiative, towards the North Sea dive Alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e899	My acquaintance has not hired any divers who have worked in the North Sea. But the Workers' Party has been with and responsible for government for certain periods, as well as for the Stortinget. It is a relationship which, in itself, does not relate to the Archives of the Workers' Party, but which relates to the documents that have to be at different levels of the Government hierarchy. There we will of course ensure that the information available will be provided, but I think I have to make the Stortinget aware that the most challenging task of providing information here lies in the relationship between the employee and the employer, and those who are operators. And it's going to be a pretty difficult field for this investigation commission, because it's probably not going to be that easy to get into private companies' archives to get the necessary documentation. That will be the challenge, and it may be a challenge that is greater than the challenge we face in relation to government documentation. Then, of course, I will contact the Alliance and see if it is possible to develop a project, both in professional size and in economic size, for which it is possible to provide project support, but then there must be a project of a different dimension than what was originally requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e906	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e911	When the oil adventure began in Norway, the heroic efforts of the pioneers were crucial to the country’s development as an oil nation. The technology of the day was quite different from today, and so it was necessary for you who often brought danger, risk and heavy loads to those who were going to do the dives. When former Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli opened the Ecofisk field, he said: ‘Without their heroic pioneering efforts, Norway’s economic growth would not have been possible. It shall never be forgotten.’ Unfortunately, history has shown that they were forgotten, at least until now. The enormous psychological and physical stress that the divers were subjected to has in time caused serious problems, and many of the pioneer divers are now either out of work or dead. Unfortunately, economic ruin, personal bankruptcy and suicide have become more the rule than the exception for many of the divers. However, I was pleased when the Stortinget one year ago unanimously adopted the proposal of the Progress Party to set up an investigation commission to clarify responsibilities, competence on the threat of diving, and the adverse effects of diving on the pioneers. However, it took ten months from the decision, until an investigation commission was appointed, and when the Commission was finally appointed, it had no members with diving competence. In addition to this, a total ignored a unanimous comitology comment on considering giving the Northern Seas Alliance an observer status in the Commission. I think it's incredible that you can set up a commission with no professional competence and without even giving the divers observer status in the Commission. It's just the divers who have felt the problems on the body, and it's they, above all, who now have to get to the point. We cannot help those of the divers who in desperation and despair have taken their lives. Nor can we give health back to those who are ruined for life. However, we can give these gentlemen the honor and the support they so absolutely deserve. I therefore hope that today we will put a finish line on this matter in a way worthy of the oil nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e927	I have to say that some of that state council said instead, surprised me. Of course, it is true that this is also about relationships between employers and employees, and that it may be difficult for him to go into it in the past. But it also applies to the State's party as the legislative authority and the Government, which enforces the laws. As far as I understand, this applies, inter alia, to: the environmental protection law, which was in the past exempted from it until 1995. There are some rules for diving, which were nicer to operators in Norway than, among others. U.S.A. So it is primarily the exercise of authority that needs to be investigated. And there should have been a much stronger drive from both this and previous governments in taking what has happened to many of the pioneer divers, much more serious than what has been done. I also think that the North Sea divers, in addition to the fact that they want and deserve recognition from the state and the Norwegian people, deserve at least that we ensure that those who have really been hurt and have had late effects do not have the economic concerns that many of them have and have had. We are a runaway nation, and then they – and their families – who have a good share of the credit because this year we have a surplus of SEK 200 billion, an oil fund of over DKK 400 billion and an excellent economy, have a bad economy. There is no reason why we should not have had proper compensation schemes, compensation schemes – you can call it what you want. We should have at least made sure that those who did a great job in their younger days and now suffer, and their families, were taken care of in a proper way. It's a political responsibility for the whole Biggest and various governments, but now at least we can do something about it, when we have a good economy. Then I think it is wise that the Council of State is somewhat restrained and careful and should always consider the consequences and investigate and investigate. One could quickly have done something about this, both this and previous governments, and therefore it is sad that today's Council of State is a little restrained. Of course, other governments could have done something in the past, but I guess we can't just keep investigating. It is for state councils to take autonomous initiatives to at least make some financial arrangements that make life easier for those who are still living, their families and the families of those who have fallen away, instead of the passive attitude that I feel the Council of State is exhibiting in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e936	I will not extend the debate any further. I want to make it clear that what I reacted to was that there was a kind of suspicion of the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's both past and present history in helping to bring the truth to light. This has nothing to do with the Archives of the Workers' Party. This has to do with how governments, independent of governments, have done their service. Of course, the State information available in this area should be made available to the Examination Commission. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e955	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e970	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e984	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e998	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1012	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1023	This case is, in the view of the Labour Party, a good example of how the majority of the Stortinget amends regulations based on a single case. The case concerns the problems that have arisen in Revita Drammen after they did not reach the bidding round in the founding instructions. The background to the case is that, in order to arrive at a locally anchored, durable solution to the establishment guidance in Buskerud, a steering group was set up to tender for the guidance service. The management board consisted of members from five municipalities, Buskerud County and SND. At this point, Aetat was not part of the collaboration. The management board obtained an offer of the guidance service and a request was sent to eight candidates/environments who were considered competent to perform this service. A unanimous steering group was of the opinion that of the four who made offers, it was Revita Kongsberg who had the best professional offer in relation to the economic angle of the founder's guide. We are aware that Revita Drammen has complained about the outcome of the case. No one in this room has any objection to innovation, to the coordination of public efforts, to the internal cooperation of different agencies and to the non-opposition of bureaucratic administrations. We also agree on the needs of the target group, and of course we want it to be the best offer given to this group. None of us have been involved either in the bidding round or in deciding who would be offered. We have to trust that those who considered Revita Kongsberg to be the best had a professional justification. Offers are offers, not everyone can expect to get a grant. I thought this principle was at least strong in the Right and the Advance Party. That is why, with some surprise, I see that they are in this document No. The 8th proposal. I also thought that these parties thought we should make demands on the use of public funds. It may not be that if a person has received public funds in the past, he shall be entitled to do so for all time. In my opinion, this case is evidence that the framework and quality assurance provide the best offer for the users. In the letters of the Council of State following the suspension, it is noted that all projects must be considered in relation to each other and that the decision is taken locally at local discretion. Furthermore, the Council of State says that he has asked Aetat Labour Directorate to ask Aetat Buskerud, i.e. Aetat locally, that they are willing to give Revita Drammen advice and guidance on how to set up the business to comply with the grant rules. The working party believes that it would not be necessary to change the regulations on this specific matter. Nevertheless, when there is a majority in favour, we in the Labour Party are pleased that the majority has applied the amendments proposed by the Council of State. The original proposal was that the government should make proposals as soon as possible to change the rules for the job creation funds, so that Revita Drammen would pass. As I said, the changes that the majority are now presenting are to live with, so I'm asking the President to put the vote to the vote so that we vote first on our minority proposal. When it's down, we in the Workers' Party want to vote for the setting. So I'm dealing with the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1051	The representative Gaundal has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1054	This Document No The 8 proposal should actually be unnecessary. Document No 8:108 aims at creating the necessary regulatory changes to ensure diversity and user-friendliness of measures for the unemployed, disabled and other involuntary unemployed. This should be a cross-political agreement. A majority of the municipal committee has pointed out unequivocally that measures of the type Revita Drammen should be implemented and supported. This was done in the budget for both 1999 and 2001. Statistic from Revita Drammen shows that they are largely successful in their business, both in helping people to establish a business and create their own job and in getting people back into work or education. Of the 511 who were followed up by Revita Drammen in the period 1995-1999, it was 296, or 58 pst., who received employment, 168, or 33 pst., self-employment and 47, or 9 pst., education. Increasing disability, unemployment and exclusion have major human, social and economic consequences, both for individuals and for society. I believe that it is a cross-political wish that work to reduce these problems should be given priority. That is why, as proposers, we believe that the legislation and attitudes of the administration are inappropriate in relation to the objective of employing more unemployed and unemployed people. Legislation related to such grants is necessary, but it is also necessary to have sufficient flexibility in regulation and a positive attitude towards diversity and creativity in administration, so that the aim of bringing people back to work and activity becomes the most important, not the inclusion of legislation. Increasing disability, unemployment and exclusion have major human, social and economic consequences for both individuals and society. So it's a cross-political desire that work to reduce these problems be given priority. For the majority, it has been important that the needs of users should be guided and that the measures should be adapted to them rather than vice versa. This implies that users of such services should participate in the design of the same services. It may not be right for bureaucratic management to counter measures that are different from traditional, as long as the objectives are achieved with acceptable resource use. We have discussed these problems earlier, and I have experienced that the Council of State said he was positive to the Revita Drammen. Nevertheless, the Council of State has said that if the majority wants to change, proposals must be made in the Grand Duchy. It is against this background that we have promoted this document No. The 8th proposal. I am pleased that the members of the Labour Party in the vote agree with us proposers that there must be an openness to innovation in the work of getting unemployed in the workplace, whether as workers or as drivers of their own business. However, when they insinuate that we do not want to make demands, this is wrong. We want to make demands, and we believe that Revita Drammen has documented this. Document No The 8 proposal should be unnecessary if the Council of State had shown the necessary flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1075	I agree with the previous speakers. I just want to underline a couple of important points. One of the problems relating to the issue of Revita has been that it has been addressed through comments from the municipal committee during both this and the previous period of ageing against the votes of the Labour Party. It has been quite obvious that from the time the action was planned and started, there has been an action like that for the government party, even when they were not in government, in a way not fit into the thinking you had. In any case, there was a problem with the Aetat legislation. I realize that in many ways it can be difficult. However, it is also the case that there is no legislation, but the objective which should govern the actions to be taken. I also wanted us not to have been in the situation that we had to bring up a Document No. 8-proposals for this to be implemented. There has been a need for this, for example: because there has not been a properly implemented evaluation of the results of experience presented by Revita itself. I think it would have been important, in addition to what we are doing today, to ensure that there is an independent evaluation of the success of these projects, also to make the Stortinge feel comfortable with it if it turns out that Revita did not have the results we believe they can prove that they have had, and so that we get into a situation where we have a regulatory framework that ensures the whole of mobilising better access to labour, and that labour access can also be achieved through the self-mobilization measures that Revita has actually been an exponent for developing, also in relation to public action. There is no doubt that there has been a lot of learning in terms of job creation and self-activation in public, based on the self-help groups that Revita is an example of. But in addition to making sure Revita gets carried on, the Council of States should also initiate a really independent evaluation of the results, so that we get rid of that part of the discussion that is about what the numbers really are saying. Are the numbers real or are they not real? Then we will also have a decision-making base in the future on how best to secure the type of multi-target group projects that exist, i.e. where both the unemployed, the unemployed and the people who may, in fact, only have difficulty getting into the labour market for other reasons, which are the target, and which then fall through the way the measures are designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1084	This is a matter that has been rolling and going for a while, at least as long as I have been sitting on the municipal committee this period, and I am the first to regret the fact that the majority in the committee saw themselves required to promote this Document No. The 8th proposal. I would like to make it clear that if the Council of State wanted to follow up the comments that have been put into almost all the budgets that have been made in the Municipal Committee this period, this matter would not have to be promoted. And then it's a little pathetic that the Workers' Party's spokesmen wonder that some parties are involved in this proposal, given that public money is to be controlled. I think it's more likely that the Labour Party will conceal its own despair that we're actually here through Revita and some other things being proved that private people can go into and solve or help solve the problems that arise in Aetat when they don't manage to communicate or are unable to help set up new businesses to get people who have fallen out of work back into working life so that they can stand on their own, as most people should. Then we'd better concentrate on creating a social network for those who don't master everyday life on their own. Based on what we presented. Otherwise, I would say that I fully share the view that Ivar Østberg from the Christian People's Party is taking from the pulpit a little while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1095	I also share the view that it should be unnecessary to promote this proposal. But history is such that it has been necessary. Unfortunately, the rapporteur is not entitled to the fact that there is a single matter that has triggered this either. It shows once again that the majority and the Government have neither seen the content of the comments that have been written nor heard what has been said in the debates, namely that this has not been a matter of only one action, but there is one measure that has been an example that has shown that they have been able to play a role in relation to a completely priority target group that both the Government and the Grand Duchy have, namely those who are out of work. This has been an example of an action that has played an important role there, which has had a different culture, another way of working, and which, in our best knowledge, seems to have succeeded, at least as much as many of the other measures that Aetat has. So for SV, this isn't a question about who's going to do what. Aetat cooperates with many private providers of interventions and training. SV believes that they should do so, but Aetat should be responsible for it. But the limits set for this are too narrow. I would like to refer to an article in Dagbladet from 18 April this year, where there is an interview with the Kosmo Council of State, where Kosmo wisely and transparently calls for a change in the culture of a part of the public sector, just to ensure that those who do not reach the system, and perhaps many of those who fall out of work, are able to get good enough help. "The system is too rigid, and the forms determine where healthy farmland would be much better," says the Council of State. And that's what this case is about. The majority have had no desire for all the arrangements relating to rules in relation to such measures to be abolished, but we have wanted sound agricultural and public understanding to be incorporated into their practice, so that measures that work well should not be abandoned. That's what this is about. Unfortunately, the letters from the Council of State in this matter – and they have been many – show that it is a long way to go before both the Council of State and the bureaucracy are able to think differently and look beyond the sectorization that is currently in the system. It's a big challenge for everyone to get to it. For very many of those who need it the most, the auxiliaries are most inaccessible, because there are measures both here and there, and the rules in one field turn into whole openings in the other field and make it difficult. When we look at the special measures that we have pointed out in this proposal, it is mainly about maritime aid projects. It means that they have a different culture and a different way of thinking than what the auxiliaries in general have. SV has great sympathy for the thinking of these projects, which is based on what in English is called ‘empower’ – I find no good Norwegian word for it. But it's just about enabling people to help themselves sail, letting people with their own resources get to work out their marine respect, their idea, their vision, their belief that you should be able to get a better life and get into work or start your own business. SV believes that for the resources we have spent on these measures, we have actually got a lot again. Some will fail, so will they in the projects that are now in the pure Aetat-regi. SV is very concerned that we are now getting an evaluation of the actions taken in relation to the target audiences we are now talking about, and that that evaluation must relate to both the actions given in public terms and the actions taken in cooperation with private providers of such services. It is necessary to achieve the quality that is needed, not only to make sure that the money is spent well, but also to succeed in helping people get back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1110	Of course, I will follow up the decision in Stortinget and amend Section 1 of the regulation in line with the wishes of the municipal committee. No one must be surprised at that, as I have signaled myself that it may be a way to go. I'm actually going to go a lot further than that. I have sent out for consultation within and across the framework of the regulations relating to the use of funds in labour market policy. I want to change this to three main packages of measures where those who work in the public sector who are going to allocate funds for this can look at each bag and strive to get individual solutions, primarily for the individual, but also for trying out new things. But, of course, the quality and competence of the projects to be authorised must be required. It is possible, and probably the committee is right, that in order to bring about a change of opinion in the administration and to get a new approach, some dramatic regulatory changes need to be made. But I still want to be of the opinion that we need to set quality standards. There should not be a bank in which to just go and collect money without the bank demanding quality in the projects to be carried out. I hope I have the Storting with me that that must be the reason. But of course it should not be that we have to make such strict demands that if there is a requirement for more than 50 pst. participation from the registers held by the State of Labour and 48 p.m. is to be said no, and if there is 52 p.m., yes and hallelujah. So rigid it shouldn't be, but some thresholds we have to set. Because even though the part of the Storting that is for us to give more money to the labour market funds, here is with those who think we should grant less, it's not that there's enough money for everything we want to put in. We're actually going to have to give priority in this area, no matter who's in power. Then you have to give priority to what you think gives the best results for those who are involved. At least it takes me as a liability. Of course, I'm going to be involved in evaluating different schemes. However, I think it's a little early, because we have some other trials and also plans for some other trials. To get more volunteering, more spontaneity, more creativity, we also have some other attempts that we want to start. So I think it's important, once you've run through these trials, that you get an evaluation of what works best – not because you have to take something out, but because, in spite of everything, you have to make priorities for how to put in the main effort. The main point of all this business must be to qualify people to get into work. The most unsolidaristic thing we do is to judge people away from the possibility of taking firm or partial work. We know from experience and all the studies that have been carried out, that it is primarily the possibility of obtaining income through work that provides an opportunity to participate in welfare development in the best way. Therefore, it must be the starting point for all of us who work on these issues, that the individual should be involved, whether in voluntary organisations or in the labour market. Based on the ambitions and perspectives, I don't think it should be so difficult to reconcile all the different political approaches associated with this matter. I will follow the decision of Storting and amend Section 1 of the regulation as soon as possible, but I would point out that during the next winter we will have to make several dramatic changes to the regulation in relation to labour market policy if we are to have a chance to achieve the necessary and desirable results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1126	I'm glad that the Council of State said the majority was right. It is an important recognition in this matter that it may need radical things to change the attitudes needed. I'm glad we get packages when it comes to trying out new things. The majority agree with the Council of State that quality is to be required. It must not be left to the impression of the majority's proposal that there is no concern about quality. I agree with the Council of State that we need to find out what works best, and that the most unsolidarous thing we can do is to judge people out. But that's exactly why we've pointed out that using the experience of those who really have the shoe on, and who know where it prints, is the kind of action we should bet on. Self-help must be important. Measures such as Revita Drammen take advantage of the experience of the involuntary unemployed. The Council of State does not believe that it is precisely that over a five-year period you have been able to get 58 pst. in employment, 33 p.m. in its own right and 9 pst. in education of the 511 who were followed up, does this indicate that these are good actions that we should be focusing on in the future? Doesn't this speak for quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1136	I think many of the Revita projects – not only Revita in the Drama, but maybe even more so with other Revita projects – have shown very good results. For this reason, these projects have been viewed with quite interested eyes and open money in the various labour market seats. To the extent that the Storting does as it is now and takes a principle position to give the Government an order to clarify further the Storing's policy by changing the regulations, I think that's quite fine. What I would, on the other hand, think was very sad, was whether you were willing to deal with individual projects and grant money directly without this being treated properly and properly in the administration. I can have many opinions about the role of administration and administration and how to develop administration both in the present and in the future, but I am very concerned that there should be rules of play that allow administration to handle the various applications in a professional and proper way. I couldn't imagine reviewing the management's individual decisions without a proper dialogue with the administration about the reasons for what it has actually done. So when the matter is as it is, that the majority in the European Parliament is giving a signal about how the policy should be, I think it's quite right that the majority is right, as long as you don't go on dealing with individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1145	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is unfortunate that we should have had to deal with individual matters in Stortinget. It's also tried by the majority to avoid as far as we have the power. But what is the starting point for much of the policy that is being created both in the Government and in the Storting is that we are being asked what reality actually is for those for whom we have said that we should solve the problems. That's why things often take on board concrete situations, because it's sometimes that the policy we're designing doesn't exactly work in practice, and then you have to do something. This case is related to several cases, but especially one. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State reiterates that the Revita measure has not demonstrated to Aetat the results obtained or submitted the reports to be submitted. The municipal committee has received copies of the correspondence that has been, and it is very difficult for us to see that in that case this would not be sufficient. If there was any disagreement about the numbers here, maybe there should be some way to figure it out. I then need to ask the Council of State if it is such that in a letter to the municipal committee he does not accept the information that is here. Of what he has said so far today, it seems as if he has also seen and recognised that there is a lot of good work being done here. So we agree that there's probably a need for evaluation of everything, but I'm a little over now what the Council of State is really saying. Is it true that he believes that this documentation is not good enough, or is it such that he has actually seen that there are documented results here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1154	I think I'm going to refrain from going into details about Revita Drammen – I have to ask to be allowed to – and rather say that if there's something we're wondering about what's supposed to be documented in terms of both results and in particular ambitions in relation to concrete projects, I'm going to go over the information further to see if there's anything that's gone by. But in these job creation projects, there have been more involved, both government and municipal authorities, as well as the organisation, foundation or business that has applied for the money. So when we evaluate the individual relationships, we have to see all of the things in this context. However, if there is something that has crossed my mind, I will try to review the documents further. It's as far as I want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1159	I respect the fact that the Council of State will not be involved in individual projects which have been decisive in many ways for the majority to promote this proposal. But when the Council of State talks about the quality of the projects, I want to remind you that sometimes it is that initially you can't always read out the project description if a project will work or not, because it often has a lot to do with the people sitting there, and what atmosphere and creativity they manage to create around it. Therefore, it is important to have a slightly open attitude to be able to assess things more from results, and sometimes try and fail in using a little bit of new and slightly different types of projects. And here, there might be a need to create more review of the results of some of these job creation projects, so you can agree on the basis. Then I was going to ask a question that goes on the consultation round that has now been, related to the conversion of the entire package of labour market measures. For there are almost daily reports of fears related to the weakest in the labour market, those who had actually never been going to be about repatriation and return to normal working life, i.e. those who were largely possibly covered by the former mental development protection, and who were transferred to these projects, to a large extent through the HVPU reform. We now see individual cases of people being dismissed, and great fear that this group will be forgotten. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer the question of how to deal with the fact that some of these measures are also applied to the group that we never expect to return to the labour market in the usual way, that it is not about a return job, but about people who actually need quality in their everyday lives and to feel that they are doing something meaningful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1166	Let me say the first thing to say is that we've been moving a little bit on our way since we started with this. While at the beginning there was talk of changing the legislation so that a particular project fell under this, we now have a consensus that we should amend the legislation in order to seek greater flexibility and transparency. I believe that we have all worked towards a goal that has become good. So I think that in relation to the job creation projects, and in order to achieve the objectives that we all idealistically have for this area, we're going to get better, within the limited resources that we have at our disposal. I want to repeat that, that jam is a lot we should have wanted to do, but it is, after all, limited resources at our disposal. And then I can make sure that, of course, it's not that we're going to go through the changes that we're making in order to strive for as much flexibility as possible to get more people out of work, forgetting those who don't have a chance in the future to compete on the labour market. We must not be so concerned with rehabilitating, rehabilitation and job creation that we forget about those groups that have the most weight and difficulty. That's why, in the future, I think we need to have our own money and resources that we intend to meet exactly these groups. In the name of all propriety, we all have to admit that there are people who need help and support in order to develop their skills, and also to have the opportunity to provide work. Although it is not primarily productive for an enterprise, it will be productive for society in the long run. That's why I think we have to be minded that we're approaching this group in a special way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1176	It happens at this time when there are so many things going on in each other in the hall, and some parties are so little represented in single committees, that time goes a little bit fast. That's what happened to me today. I have therefore not taken part in this debate so far. I have listened to most of the debate from my office, busy preparing matters that come to mind, and done the necessary work. I therefore feel the need now to say a few words on behalf of the Central Party, because I am a co-sponsor for this proposal. In particular, the Storting intervened to the extent in the handling of individual cases, as has been done in this document No. The 8th proposal. I found it absolutely necessary to be involved in this, based on a situation where it might seem that there are individuals who are unable to communicate in relation to the legislation that is in place. The legislation itself may have to be modified. I would have liked to see that the Council of State itself had stepped through, found a system and proposed the changes that were necessary, so that we could avoid putting this case ‘on the verge’, as now. It was not done in advance. I have now stated – in the same way as the other representatives who have spoken here – that the proposal put forward here is being followed up. I am very sorry that Revita Drammen has had to put down his business. I think they stand as a example of the creativity that it is necessary to have for those who want to engage that as many as possible in sum make it possible to participate in a work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1190	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1193	Just a little heartbreak from my side at the end of this debate: Now the Council of State has answered on behalf of the Workers' Party, but the contribution to the representative Erna Solberg made me sign, because she referred to the proceedings of the Municipal Committee in the previous period. And I'm probably one of the few people who's been in the municipal committee for two periods now and I've been involved in dealing with these things. When a legislative framework for job creation projects was put in place in 1998, it was positively intended and could be applied for projects throughout Norway, and this has been done. And in every budgetary context, there's been an ex-post discussion about Revita Drammen. For some strange reason Revita Drammen always comes in retrospect, while all the other projects accept the public review of the candidate mass. It's a little strange – I think – when it's kind of presented as if this is the one right project, and everyone else is doing fine. So I'm a little surprised. Finally, I would just like to say that perhaps part of the majority today should look at the previous budgets in terms of cuts in labour market resources. It would probably have looked a little different for those who are unemployed and without offers if you had not cut the labour market funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1204	The discussion on job creation funds in Revita has a past that actually goes further than the 1998 budget. Originally, it was mentioned for the first time – I think – in the 1995 or 1996 budget, where a majority of the committee mentioned several projects of the same type as they thought they should be tried out. And as I also said in my post instead, it has given learning to the public, because the public has thus established job creation projects that have more memory of this. I think today's debate has somehow confirmed that Leif Lund is wrong. There has been a need to change the legislation, because the user group of the project we are talking about has a slightly different composition than the criteria suggested. The Committee has now agreed that there is a need – and the Council confirms it – for a slightly different set of legislation or introductions, so that other user groups can be allowed to do so. And so history has shown that the initiatives taken by the majority, given that these were important projects to get started – and that I also meant, because we through a Document No. The 8-proposals proposed that we should have other types of pilot projects that could mobilise other types of forces in relation to the disabled – were correct. So I want to say one thing about the amount of action. It is clear that the amount of action is important, including: is important for the amount of measures for persons with reduced mobility. I would like to remind you that in this year's setting, the Right has a higher level of action for these than the majority and the Labour Party have opted for. But the other thing that's also important is that you give priority to the groups you're actually saying to prioritize. On Thursday evening, we discussed here in the Stortinget exemption from pay on leave, which just shows that a large part of the money here is actually being tied up to groups that are not the priority, but groups that should be ‘retained’ in the labour market due to the situation in the workshop industry. Much of the difference in the last years between the level of action on the right and that on the part of the Workers' Party has not been related to those groups that are completely out of the labour market and need qualification measures; other groups have been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1214	The article by the representative Leif Lund shows in a way some of the things that have amazed at least SV in this case, and probably also the majority, namely that there has been some kind of special negative attention around one action. It has surprised SV very much that there have been so many difficulties around this, and it is precisely this that has caused us to have to look carefully at it and follow it up. It is not right, as the representative Lund says, that in retrospect only one measure has been taken. There have been enquiries from many. I don't know if I'm wrong, but it has seemed a little bit like the system wanted to get rid of someone. They've been kind of considerate. I don't know what it's been, but the impression that's been created is at least like this. In addition, I need to say that I am very pleased with the slightly new notes that I understood from the Council of State today, compared to the great need to change the framework around this. No later than 29 March, I received an answer to a question concerning the matter, where the only argument of the Council of State not to look at this is a reference to regulations and regulations, and that rules must be followed. So I understand that we have taken a long step in the positive direction, and that essentially the Stortinget has now given a very clear signal that the frames need to be adjusted. That is the need and the goal to be satisfied. The rules must be adapted to persons, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1223	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1237	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1246	In large parts of the world, and especially in Africa, there is a deep crisis due to HIV/AIDS infection. In Norway and other western countries, the situation is much less dramatic. The proposal we are examining now provides for the mandatory HIV/AIDS test of all applicants for residence in the country. The premise of the proposal is that those who are infected should not be allowed to stay in the country. The majority of the Committee, and to the extent that the minority, believe that both the premises and the proposal to refuse infected persons to stay in the country are unacceptable. The starting point for the proposal seems to be that it is assumed that HIV/AIDS is taking more lives in Norway now than it has done before, and that is according to my knowledge of the matter, and when I have looked at the documentation, no reason to assume. There are more people who are infected. So there's an assumption that there's someone else that's infecting us. There's no reason to assume either. It seems like many are of the opinion that HIV affects someone else to a greater extent than us. It may be convenient to hang such labels on someone who is infected, but there is no good strategy if you want to drive HIV/AIDS control. There is no point in ensuring the effectiveness of such a compulsory test method. On the contrary, all the professional bodies say that they have had very good experience with the voluntary scheme that is now being used by a great many. The starting point here is trust and security, and not just that a test is taken, but that, if it turns out that you are infected, you have the opportunity to do information work, health work, and that trust between the authorities and the people involved is strengthened and not impaired. We have to remember that many people come here to Norway from some countries where it is not natural to trust the authorities, and where the intervention of authorities, both through health professionals and through other authorities, does not always have any good purpose. It is therefore essential that the work on the protection of infectious diseases in question be carried out on a voluntary basis and with confidence. This is the strategy that health authorities have shown to be effective to date, and the majority want to continue to support it. When it comes to how to continue to carry out this work, an evaluation of the projects that have been carried out has been carried out. It has been shown that they have largely worked well, but there is reason to look at strengthening the community health service and how health professionals should be able to inform better and operate this job more effectively. In addition, there is also a need to support the organisations working in and among those who have such infection, so that the information and support and assistance work can be optimised. Then there's reason to point out that there's behavior and not ethnic origin or the reason for crossing a boundary, which there's reason to call out a warning. We know very well how HIV/AIDS is transmitted. It is in the context of behaviour that action needs to be taken and people should be informed about how this is being transmitted. There is also reason to recall that some of those who come here to the country and are infected by HIV/AIDS are people who have in no way been able to defend themselves against such infection. Many of them are children and young people who have been infected by attackers. I – and I think I have the majority with me – find it quite shocking that even in relation to such a group, the proposers have not found it worth saying that they should not be able to be assessed for residence in the country. For my part and for the SV, I have to be allowed to add that we assume that the proposal has nothing to do with Norwegian infectious diseases at all, but it is only a contribution to the asylum and refugee debate. The majority propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1272	Last fall, I had the honour of attending the Grand President's visit to Malawi in southern Africa. It was an interesting trip. We got a lot of information and had many constructive conversations. Some of the problems that this country had to deal with were that they had to cut down on their school budgets and health budgets because the fuel costs had become so large because of the high oil price – a price that is known to lead to a lot of money in our funds. Some of the things they wanted to try to control were HIV/AIDS. It was operated on with different numbers, but between 20 and 40 pst. among young women aged 13 to 17 years were reported to be HIV positive. So they lost the opportunity because of the high oil price to make the effort that they would like to make. I will be brief and just refer to the letter from the Council of State of 15 May, which states that the proposal for a mandatory HIV/AIDS test by all applicants for a residence permit in Norway cannot be justified on grounds of professional infectiveness. The measure will be discriminatory, represent violations of human rights and, in addition, be internationally unsustainable. The Christian People's Party is a member of the majority who points out that there is a broad political consensus in Norway that the country should respect its obligations in relation to international agreements and the UN Convention on Refugees. The principles of these agreements are that there is a need for protection which is essential for residence, not if he is sick or infected. The proposers wish to deprive the HIV/AIDS infected persons of the right to asylum or stay in Norway, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is unethical, represents a view of humanity in which the majority of the Committee deeply disagrees and violates, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, fundamental principles of the right to asylum. On the basis of my and the other delegation's experience, I would have preferred much more to have appropriations to help countries such as the United Kingdom. Malawi had been proposed to increase, rather than the proposal we have received in this document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1287	HIV/AIDS is probably one of the most serious infectious diseases we have in the world today. Africa is particularly vulnerable, but the disease also spreads across other continents, such as Asia, and perhaps later also to Eastern Europe.We know that in some countries of Africa, a whole generation has died out, and the new generation may also be so infected that it is at risk of extinction. The representative Ivar Østberg mentioned that this with a high oil price was the reason why a person might not be able to do so. We must also point out that it seems that it was not the very great political will of the South African government to do something with possible vectors. The infectious disease law today gives us the opportunity to test and, in fact, also to use forced testing, but in our opinion it is not useful enough. The disease spreads, the infection spreads, and we think it's important to take inwards. And how are we going to be able to prevent this contagious disease from spreading? The first is that one must be able to identify vectors, and then one must be able to provide advice and guidance on how to proceed in order not to spread this disease. And how can you identify the disease? Well, then a test, and that's professional coverage because it's the only and maybe the easiest way to get it done. The majority claim that it's okay with voluntary testing, and that's good. It is good that many are responsible for their own behavior and let themselves be tested. But – and it’s a big but – the most dangerous vectors are those that haven’t been identified. If these are not identified, many lives may be lost, and then there are not so many other ways to obtain the vectors than to use coercion. Of course, we see the problems with it, but sometimes a well-likely must choose between two evils, either to try to slow down this contagious disease or to say, OK, we'll leave it on a voluntary basis. We in the Progress Party believe that the most important thing is to carry out infection detection, to find out where the pathogens are, to get advice and guidance. As the representative Karin Andersen said, the problem is the behaviour, and it is in that area that one needs advice and guidance so that one can slow it down. I have to say that I am sorry that the majority today prevents us from being able to apply the brakes when it comes to spreading this disease. But let me also make it clear that in the Progress Party, we will not use any detection of vectors as a basis for rejecting an application for suspension in Norway. Suspension in Norway shall be assessed in the light of the need for protection. In these words, I take up the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1304	The representative of Solholm has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1307	The proposal we have before us today is an attempt at a recording of the general debate on asylum and refugees which I am pleased to see a majority in this Chamber today taking a distance from and rejecting. I believe that the proposal before us today is an attempt to scare people. It's an attempt to try to stamp parts of an entire group that called potential carriers of HIV and AIDS. That's at least how someone can read the statements that have come in connection with it. Then it is that the proposal for a mandatory HIV/AIDS test for all applicants for a residence permit cannot be justified for the purposes of the protection of infectious diseases, as has already been said by several speakers. Moreover, the measure would be discriminatory, there would be a violation of human rights, and it would also be internationally unsustainable. In line with the circular on the initial survey of refugees and asylum seekers, all are offered HIV tests, information and guidance when they come to our country. Health services report that it is unproblematic to get people in this target group to test themselves. It is therefore not the case that there are a large number of non-tested immigrants who would have been tested if testing had been made mandatory. Therefore, there is no reason to justify such a measure for the protection of infectious diseases. On the contrary, there would be reason to fear that the initiation of the initial study of refugees would decrease if the results of the health studies could have a negative impact on the application. To imagine that people infected with HIV/AIDS should be refused a stay in Norway, regardless of whether they need protection or not, I believe it is unethical. I believe, as I said, that it violates international conventions and that it violates fundamental principles throughout the law of asylum. The need for protection shall be essential for the granting of residence in Norway, not if he is sick or infected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1320	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1323	Within the few minutes I have available, I will try to get straight on the matter and comment on what has come up here. This proposal, promoted by the representative, Mr Kleppe and the undersigned, is only related to asylum seekers. That's not right. We want an equal rule for all – all non-residents will be subject to this. That is why we are promoting this proposal, in which we ask ‘The government is making proposals that result in the introduction of a mandatory HIV or AIDS test by all applicants for a residence permit in Norway’. That's an important clarification. I would then like to point out one thing that the fight against the HIV epidemic poses major challenges for Norwegian politicians and authorities as well. I just notice that the political majority does not take what is happening outside our doors, so very serious. I also note that although the problem is not so great in Norway, we should at least ensure that we do not import too many of the problems – we must try to limit them, that must be the important thing. I just want to refer to something that is very important and that the majority may not be aware of, namely that of the 177 new HIV cases registered in Norway in 2000, 101 were non-nationals. It shows numbers from Folkehelsa. While the increase in HIV cases among homosexuals and injecting drug users has stagnated, HIV infection is growing dramatically among refugees arriving in Norway. And that's what Folkehelsa says. HIV infection is a contagious disease that is taking an increasing number of lives in Norway. At least there we agree. A number of preventive infectious medicine specialists believe that there is reason to be concerned about the development. Taking into account recent years’ efforts to prevent the HIV epidemic, today’s situation is very worrying. The world has 50 pst. more HIV-infected and AIDS than the most pessimistic experts predicted ten years ago. Norway also needs to move inwards. AIDS has so far taken four times more human lives than the experts predicted. Worldwide, 36 million people live with HIV infection or AIDS. Two thirds of them live in Africa. The AIDS epidemic is wiping out large parts of the adult population in some African countries. Statistics are frightening and the consequences are obvious. Nevertheless, few African countries have given the fight against HIV and AIDS top priority. Political will and adequate initiatives in the fight against the epidemic are also a prerequisite for Norwegian politicians to have sufficient control over the spread of the epidemic. Not least, you have to work for awareness raising and a change of attitude in society as a whole. Then you try to represent it as if we're going to be so inhuman and that we don't follow common human rights traditions, and try to use it as a scare-mongering propaganda so that you don't go into the reality of our proposal. I will strongly reject that. I would just like to refer to the figures we have from Norwegian health surveillance and to the practices in other countries in the world, and it is becoming stricter and more stringent in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1334	I recognise this issue from the public debate 13-14 years ago. Then I was head of the Norwegian Association for Infective Medicine, which is the relevant specialist association of the Norwegian Medical Association. At the time, a coherent professional environment rejected similar proposals after thorough public discussion. So this comes up again, and then you come up with suggestions about'mandatory HIV or AIDS tests'. HIV or AIDS test – what is it now? What does that mean? It can only mean one thing, that the proposers don't know what they're asking for. And then you focus on high-risk countries, while we know, as the case rapporteur pointed out quite correctly, that it is the sexual behaviour that is the risk factor here – mostly – and it is not known to depend on nationality. There are therefore many far too far-reaching, inappropriate reasons against this proposal. I can mention falsely positive and falsely negative tests, dietary-benefit effects, etc. It is therefore a unanimous negative attitude, with a thorough professional justification, in the professional environments. In the vote, the members of the Progress Party admit this in part and counterproductively – apparently. Nevertheless, they support the proposal, on the grounds that the ‘resistance of the professional community to mandatory testing is of a certain social ethical nature’. Now it is not said what ‘social ethical character’ is, but it is suggested that if something is ‘social ethical’ then it is scary! In my view, it is very clear and absolutely necessary that ethical assessments have to come into the picture here, and the ethical assessments are moving in the same direction as the professional ones, namely against mandatory testing. But it's not about socialism, it's about infectious medicine competence, which is unique – even if one ignores socialism – that one should not ignore. In order to support this proposal, one necessarily has to ask the question: what are we going to do with expertise, when we have the representatives Stang and Kleppe? This proposal has expired. It therefore indicates – in my view – something in the same direction with regard to the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1343	That's all reason to join what the representative Naess of the Christian People's Party now said. I need a few comments as well. It was said instead of the representative Stag that they had not seen specifically that this would affect asylum seekers and refugees. No, I see that the proposal is not like that, but the effect of it is like that. The effect of this is that sick people will lose the right to asylum and refugee status in Norway. It's a fact, as the proposal is promoted. And I assume that it was also the intention, that the whole point was to make it so that refugees and asylum seekers who come to this country are especially much more dangerous than others. I really miss a reason for that, because it is with regret that you can read the reports on how, for example. UN personnel have behaviour that is not exactly in line with good advice from those involved in infectious disease regulation. Or it may well be that Norwegian citizens who, for various reasons, travel around the world crossing borders have a behavior that could indicate that there was reason for them to seek medical attention when they came home. Those seeking residence in Norway do not necessarily present a high risk of infection. Neither is it true that anyone infected poses a high risk of infection. It is related to the behaviour of human beings as a risk of infection or not. If we're going to succeed in getting information about that, we're going to depend on the trust that's now very good, and that I think can be even better if we can get on with the method that we have: volunteering. Then I have a comment on the comments of the Advance Party in the vote, where they believe that asylum seekers and refugees who are being tested and found HIV infected, who will not comply with guidance and the requirements that are being imposed, should possibly be placed in closed reception. I believe that the Progress Party, with this remark, is in favour of treating them differently from those of the Nordics who have such infection. Is it true that the Progress Party wants other infectious diseases regulations and rules of the Code for the Protection of Human Rights of People here on such a basis as for others? That would be discrimination in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1353	It's nothing new that the majority in this hall doesn't take HIV and AIDS seriously. It's a harsh claim from me, but I'm on it, because when you come up with constructive recordings to do something about this, to see if those who apply for a residence permit in Norway carry the infection, you're not taken seriously. There is a difference between HIV and infection, which the representative Naess from the Christian People's Party was in. Nor does it state in our proposal that we will introduce mandatory HIV or AIDS testing. It says “HIV/AIDS test” – i.e. with a slash – and that means that one has to do a test to see how far you have come in the picture of the disease. I thought the representative Naess was aware of that too. He's trying to make a cheap point of this. We have promoted this proposal because we believe it is absolutely necessary in view of the developments we are seeing worldwide in the scope of HIV and AIDS. Obviously, we have to take our lead rules. All parties – both those coming to Norway and applying for a residence permit, those receiving a residence permit, Folkehelsa, the Norwegian community, must be interested in knowing what we get across borders. You were hysterical in Europe when there were diseases that went on animals. All boundaries were closed. I'm not going to use the same picture here, but I mean it says a little bit about the attitudes the majority of people in this room have when it comes to things like this that happen around us. As long as there is infection by animals, it is very important to show action – make concrete suggestions and do something. But in the case of HIV and AIDS, which have the results that it has, one will not be able to conduct the trial and take a test of those applying for a residence permit in Norway, to see what they have. The representative Stang, I and maybe some others in this room can stand alone about this. We believe that this is the best thing to do to protect the Norwegian population and the Norwegian system, and then we have a duty to make suggestions and input, so that we can get this under control. I am fully aware that some of the UN personnel from Norway have also received HIV and AIDS, but they are Norwegian citizens, so we cannot expel them. But the UN personnel have to go through a strict medical check-up and follow-up before they go out, and also when they come back home, so there's no argument at all. And then I would just like to stress at the end that the representative, Mr. Stag and I have not proposed that applications for a residence permit be rejected, we have said that they should. Of course, there are cases where you need to consider looking at applications. If all the conditions for applying for a residence permit in Norway are met, an assessment must be carried out. But at least we must not send out signals that everyone who has HIV and AIDS is cordially welcome to Norway. It will be expensive for Norwegian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1370	A small comment to the Christian People's Party representative, who claimed that Vidar Kleppe and I were old-fashioned – I'm not going to discuss it for further discussion, but at least I don't feel that way. Time gets to show who's old-fashioned, seen in relation to what we're discussing now. I believe that the case-rapporteur also disagrees with me that a number of cultural attitudes and actions are the cause of the record rapid spread of AIDS. Since the outbreak in the 1980s, nearly 22 million. people died of AIDS. The HIV epidemic in Norway is also increasingly marked by the global HIV and AIDS situation, and it is particularly among asylum seekers and immigrants from sub-Saharan Africa and also from Southeast Asia that HIV infections have increased in recent years. These are mainly infected before arrival in Norway – so that is said. In recent years, there has also been a notable increase — which I was in the Chamber — associated with Asia, in particular Southeast Asia, but also with other countries, Russia, to name one. The efforts of health authorities to appeal to people's common sense have not gained. It hasn't been possible to control people's behavior through campaigns. Therefore, the time is ripe for critical reflection on the work that has been done and reflections on what should be done. I believe the results show that information and guidance are not enough alone. It is therefore appropriate to introduce mandatory HIV testing by all applicants for a residence permit in Norway. As for the countries that might be inhuman, according to the Council of State, and that did not follow the humanitarian rules of the United Nations, I see that I have received a letter from the State Health Authority. However, it is probably old, of 2 March 1996, but it indicates one thing: there are many countries that impose restrictions. What can be said about the global picture is that it is the countries of Western Europe that are following. But it is therefore a matter of concern in Europe. Ireland has been in favour of tightening up, Belgium has been in favour of tightening up, Germany has certain restrictions and, in part, England. I am convinced that several countries are coming after, so we don't have to be the worst boy in the class in this context. I just notice that Australia was actually the country that was the earliest out of restrictions. It was in 1989. It was then established that forced HIV testing would apply to all 15-year-olds who applied for a residence permit, including children under the age of 15, with certain reservations. I would like to encourage representatives to obtain the same information.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1381	For approx. 15 years ago I took part in the pioneer work here in Norway that led to the start of the National Association against Aids, which further created the cooperation between Norwegian health authorities, church bodies – like the Church's Bymition, in which I was then employed – and the homophiles' organizations, based on the fact that there is no stop to die, and there is no stop to fool; when you have sexual intercourse, stay away, use information and use the wit! We did it a long time ago. This campaign has gone a long way in Norway. But I remember at that time there were some people -- and they had a professor's title -- who, for sure, would have a stamp on the inside of the thigh on people, to be absolutely sure that people would follow. We had entries from a well-known Norwegian actor whose name I am not going to mention, and the Center Party in the South-Trøndelag wanted the coercion of all Norwegian citizens. I felt almost committed to this uninformed age when I saw the suggestions that were being made here. There is no doubt that the systematics of Norwegian work, including the time when the Health Inspectorate created furores in some African environments in Oslo because they dared to speak the truth about what else had not been true, have helped to keep pressure on Norway, to create success and to ensure that Norway is relatively more attractive than many other Western countries. I also remember at the time that a socialist in a magazine called New Time said that you need almost a communist society to control this. It was three years before the wall fell. Castro tried; he interned all, but it did not stop the sex life in Cuba. The point is that as you approach emotions and sexual life, knowingly and unwittingly, we know from that time that the most dangerous group was Norwegian academics in aid work in East Africa. So it wasn't the intellectual capacity that was the problem, but it was something about the mental imbalance. And it was direct language that pulled it up. So forcing everyone who comes to Norway, I think I'm almost related to the most uninformed features of this debate, when you go back 15 years. You can even go back a hundred years. Then they discussed the fight against tuberculosis in the Stortinget. That disease is actually incredibly much more contagious than HIV and AIDS. It doesn't even have to be visited to get it; it can be exposed to. Tuberculosis was controlled in Norway with public information long before the drugs arrived. To renounce this popular information tradition, this collective sense that people are willing to bear in this country, and I think it's kind of removing itself from Norwegian reality. I think that the two representatives, Mr Stang and Mr Kleppe, have done so first and foremost, but I also, of course, strongly disagree with the proposal of the Progress Party. I think that approaching this is being directly in public information. And let me give you an example: in Africa, we have Mbeki, who may be under pressure from a 12-year-old brave youth realize that HIV and AIDS are related, and how it is contagious, while we have had countries like Uganda, who have run a campaign that they may have reason to be proud of. So let's look beyond the limits and be proud, and don't let the prejudices flourish in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1394	I agree with Mr Dørum that public information is important in this context. Therefore, there is not a question of either, but of both from the Progress Party. And let me make it clear that we don't want HIV AIDS testing of anyone who comes to Norway, just of those from high-risk countries. I asked for the floor because the representative Karin Andersen made a visit to the Progress Party his comments in the vote, saying that we would discriminate between the North and the asylum seekers. It says that asylum seekers should then be able to stop in a closed reception. This means that they have not yet been given permission to resume. These are people who have sent an application for suspension in Norway. It should be assessed according to the need for protection – it is also stated in our remarks – not on the basis of whether or not one is infected by a disease. That's not the question in that way. It is clear that if the person in question is suspended in Norway, he will have the same offer and the same arrangements as the Nordics – just for the purpose of clarifying that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1403	I regret that I did not clarify in my first post that the proposals of the Progress Party are not identical to those of the proposers, but that the Progress Party will only test people from high-risk countries who are applying for a residence permit. In my view, however, it doesn't get much better for that reason. One has to ask the question about people applying for a residence permit in Norway who make them extra infectious. It's the sexual behavior that's the risk of contracting AIDS. And it's quite right that Odd Einar Dørum pointed out that there are diseases that are several more contagious. There is no reason to select one special group from abroad as a special risk of infection for the Norwegian people. The line set by the proposers here will necessarily lead to compulsory testing of Norwegian tourists coming home, we will call it high-risk country. This line is a hopeless line; it's a dictatorship line, and it's not effective. This is the conclusion of a coherent professional environment. What we have to do is what we have been successful so far: an effective, targeted and voluntary detection of infection. So finally, the representative Kleppe thought that I made a cheap point of falsifying his proposal, by saying that it says "Hiv or AIDS test". It is now, however, that the proposal in the summary in the vote reads: ‘mandatory HIV or AIDS test’, and also in the original proposal distributed in the Chamber, from ‘Kleppe on behalf of Vidar Kleppe and herself’, and in the enriched proposal, from Jørn L. Stang on behalf of Vidar Kleppe and himself, it says ‘Hiv or AIDS test’. I would still argue that in my view this points to the lack of knowledge of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1414	I think that the representative is aware of his professional knowledge in this area, as he explained in his first post, understands what we mean by this. This is a term that has been used. It is clear that you may have HIV infection in you, but it is not certain that you have developed the AIDS disease. There are several stages in this, but this is a term that has been used. That's what I meant when I said that the representative made a cheap point out of it. Instead of going into the reality of the proposal, one tries to explain it and tries to stigmatise some of the big business representatives who have made constructive contributions in this area. Other countries like us in other contexts, at least some of the parties in this room, look up, for example. New Zealand, say no to HIV-infected, just to take that example. It will be introduced from 1 July next year, and it is clear that there has been a major discussion in New Zealand in this area. We have other countries that have done the same. So there's nothing unique and something terrible we've promoted when we've taken the initiative to do this. That some other representatives and political parties are trying to lead what we as proposers mean by this proposal, I really think it is the worst thing. It at least bears witness to a human vision from which I will take a strong distance. Here, we're trying to make constructive proposals to end the development we're seeing, which is going in the wrong direction. And if we're going to do something other than hope and wish and be happy that the awareness campaigns – which of course are crucial and very important in this area – are going to benefit, then we also need to come up with proposals to identify the vectors that come to our country, and what diseases they have, so that both Folkehelsa, the Norwegian community and those who come here are fully aware of it, so that it doesn't come as a surprise. We have seen examples of people who have come to Norway under the cover of being asylum seekers who have actually had this infection — and have known about it — and have made a big food out of trying to infect Norwegian women. There are probably examples that people in this room know about. I have to say that I take a strong distance from. I believe that having proper legislation in this area is far more important when we know what its consequences are, than that the majority in this Chamber should be given the opportunity to stigmatise individual representatives who dare to address matters that are important, at least for parts of the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1425	The serious thing about this case, which I think the representative Kleppe should care more about, is the serious stigmatisation that he, with his proposal together with the representative Stang, is trying to make of a large group of people, by telling people that there are dangerous people. I think he should care a little more about it, take it seriously and take more seriously the professional objections that have come up against the proposal. In fact, there are no points of reference for this proposal to be made, and something would be better for that reason. On the contrary, all professional bodies warn and say that it will be worse. Who is it then that is serious and takes this seriously, and that wants to do something about the infection situation here at home? And who wants to do something serious and serious – and what works – with the infectious situation where it is big and serious, namely in some developing countries? At least it is to my best knowledge not the representatives Stang and Kleppe, who have systematically helped cut all the appropriations in those areas. Nor is it the way that the representative Kleppe now tried to give the impression that it is something that specialises with people from outside who come to the country, that they infect other people. There are many examples of Norwegian citizens also having such behaviour. And that's what we have to tackle, not that there's one special group. Then to my comment on the Progress Party. I did not get any information on my question to the Progress Party in the answer I received. The point is that there is legislation on infectious diseases in Norway that tells how to deal with such cases. There are rules, and in some cases quite strict rules, that have to be followed. The point is that the proposals of the Progress Party say that one special group should be able to be dealt with differently. And that's discrimination! Regardless of whether the Progress Party perceives it or not, we do not have the right to discriminate against asylum seekers in relation to infectious disease legislation, unless they have completed their asylum application here in the country. And that shouldn't be right either. Disease protection legislation is such that it is responsible for public health in this country – regardless of who is sick or who needs protection from infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1434	Representatives Jørn L. Stang and Vidar Kleppe are trying to say through this proposal that it is those who are concerned with the AIDS/Hive Epidemic and not least by protecting the Norwegian people and the Norwegian way of being, etc. And then they prove this by the fact that the largest group registered with HIV infection in Norway last year came from abroad. But they don't say anything about who's infecting the Nordics, and that's what might be a problem in Norway. Who's infecting the North? Of the Nordics or others who already live in Norway, who is the perpetrator of the infection through an activity? There, Lodve Solholm said something wise in his post, that the worst and the most difficult was those who were not identified, those who were not known about. And the truth is that there are Norwegian heterophilic men who represent the greatest risk of infection for the rest of the Norwegian population in this country. And if you were to run the fight against AIDS/Hiv that the representatives Kleppe and Stang are trying to say that they are doing, there are completely different measures you should take: monitor the whoreholes, write down the number of the cars that are driving there, and then force all the whorehouses in the country, and you should, as Are Næss said, take those who come back from so-called risky countries. All of this is perceived as a violation of individual rights, etc., but it is not perceived as an offence to force everyone who comes to the country. This has very little to do with wanting to prevent the spread and increase the number of AIDS/Hiv in Norway, it is about part of Kleppes and Stags variants in the debate with Carl I. Hagen about being as vulnerable to immigration as possible, and it failed out of Kleppe when he began to praise the New Zealand proposal not to accept those who have HIV/AIDS. It shows that the rapporteur's emphasis on what is actually the basis of this proposal is probably the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1441	The representative Vidar Kleppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1444	I just want to strongly distance myself from the last post we heard. Our idea is that where we can do something on the legal front, there we have to do something, and therefore we have promoted this proposal, which is that those who are applying for a residence permit in Norway, we should do a test. It failed me, said the representative Erna Solberg when it came to my reference to New Zealand. No, it was just because New Zealand is a country with which many parties in this room compare Norway. Whether in the field of transport or in other areas where developments are taking place in New Zealand, several clustering committees have over several periods at the Grand Ring the election speed of New Zealand to get ideas on how to develop Norwegian society. And when I referred to New Zealand, it was to show that there is at least one country that has had a big discussion about this. There was disagreement about that, but at least the government has suggested that they want it. This is just for clarification. I think it is sad that we are going to have a derailment of the good proposal we have, by the fact that the representative Erna Solberg and others here will not do anything for the common good of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1453	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Footing, see page 3623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1467	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication of the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1476	I'm not going to draw this thing in the long run. We came to a consensual position, where we all think that such an exchange is of the good. But we also believe that today's legislation is not sufficient for us to be able to do this in the best possible way now. We have also come to the conclusion that the proposal does not have sufficient basis for establishing such a system without considering the matter. That is why the Committee has come to the conclusion that we want a wider distribution so that we can hope to have such a system put in place quite soon. And then we hope that the distribution will allow us to set up a hospitant scheme, to the joy of those who come here on the hospitant practice, and also to the joy of those who are going to accept the hospitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1483	There are anti-hospital arrangements in other countries. Both the United States and Canada have established their systems where people from abroad live in a quality family and work for example. in voluntary organisations, in church sound work or in education, and so it works well. In Norway, there are no such arrangements. But in an increasingly smaller value occurs more often than before the desire to work or to be in Norway for a shorter period of time, without one having in any way intended to settle down in Norway. It is then felt as very square that Norway is closed to people who may be very idealistic and intend to make an effort with their friends, who set up as a host family. I know several such cases where people, especially from Eastern Europe, are eager to work humanitarianly in their home country, want to visit partners here in Norway and work for their homeland abroad for a period of time. But when the rest of the world is Norway, it's hard. Those who do not benefit from any of the exceptions in foreign law and neither seek political asylum nor stay on a humanitarian basis have very limited possibilities for temporary suspension. This is for the quadrilaterals in a world where we've been cross-border and often communicate with each other. As proposers, we consider it unfortunate if the lack of flexible rules leads to the misuse of the foreign legislation. Rather than stretching or watering out the legislation, it is wise to establish own arrangements for temporary residence, as they have done in other countries. The government, by the municipal minister, says that this is not necessary. But my and many others' experience is another: it's a little adapted code. Fortunately, a committee says that this has to be done, and I expect that the government, for example. The next spring can come with a positive attitude, so that a particular enthusiastic person, as this is often about, can also make an extra effort in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1492	I just take the floor to express joy at the fact that the committee is unanimous and has been able to gather on a constructive solution. It is not always possible when the stress is high and the accumulation period is approaching the end – the more pleasant it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1497	Only for the representative Apelthun Seele: the government is not against such an arrangement. We don't have any trouble figuring out such a system, and of course we're going to get back to Stortinget with it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1502	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1516	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1530	As for the reasons for the proposal, I will refer you to my post in Odelstinget. There I also tried to turn this into a transmission proposal, which I was told had to do here. I would like to ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal and sent to the Government as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1537	The proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1553	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 20 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each and the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies after the posts by members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1564	This spring has been marked by uprisings in several places in District Norway. It starts in Vadsø, it's spread along the coast. In my area, in the heart of the Rogaland fjords, there are many, of different party colors, who ask that all those who want to live and work outside the largest press areas in this country be taken more seriously, that the effort they stand for is valued and made visible in a more offensive way than today. In St.meld. No 34 for 2000-2001 on regional and regional policy enabled the Labour Party to take these signals seriously. They wouldn't. The Storting Message provides a good review of heavy trends in our society in the direction of centralisation. The Committee plurality, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, support the Government's goal of maintaining the main features of today's construction patterns and the syta for equivalent living conditions throughout the country. However, the Committee distinguishes layers in its view on what is to be done to achieve that objective. The main impression will then be a working party that is pleased with the Government's arrangement, where robust regions and small community initiatives are the main concern. They think there is a need for a new policy – the government in its design – without the need for more funds. They get partial support from the Right, who wants to invest in research, education and business, and partly from a progress party that doesn't think it's an end in itself to have its own district policy. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV think there is a need for a stronger commitment, a strong and long-term transformation of policies in different areas of society, so that people who want to live in peripheral strips can still have the courage and the future to do so. These parties are united on a number of proposals both in this and in other issues in Stortinget this spring that are relevant to the districts. Here's a clear light point. It is encouraging that the Government now acknowledges that the central government's initiative on business environments has been successful and is to be passed on. It's good that the Labour Party thinks there should be more positive agents. I'm very pleased that the whole committee wants an analysis and an assessment of what distance costs mean for industry in the districts. Remote taxes have to be reduced. I look forward to a case where we can all go more into which road investments, road maintenance, freight balancing, air and ferry tariffs osb. and the importance of concrete changes in order to achieve a better distribution. It is gratifying that the Government is supported by the RUP programme, a scheme whereby the county councils are given a monthly strengthened role, which in our view they should also have when it comes to industrial development. I refer to St.meld. No 36, if SND, where it appears that the Central Party believes the regional governments as a natural consequence of this, should be the names of the county councils. A number, all with the exception of the Labour Party, are asking the 2002 Budget Government to do its best to encourage municipalities to use web-based education, including: electronic classrooms. A number of people are also behind and ask the Government to look more closely at a housing programme in the districts, which means a lot for young people who are assessing whether they should join a more peripheral municipality. The central party is responsible for the spread of power, capital and construction. We want soil, forest, sea, water, oil and gas resources to continue to form the basis for the development of jobs and settlement throughout the country. We mean travel, shipping and communication technologies are examples of industries that can be exploited even more, for the better distribution of work between city and country. Better balance between districts and central areas is needed to ensure sustainable development, reduce the pressure problems in large cities and re-growth the districts. It is important to remind each other of the rich natural resources that have been the basis of people's housing for generations, resources that we still cherish, resources that make the districts as we know them, not expenditure items, but value creation that in a special way benefits the big community. Through cooperation between towns and cities, across industries and professional groups, we still have to ensure effective production, efficient and comprehensive exploitation of the natural basis, the safe growth environment and the challenging working and cultural life of the time to come. An active interaction between the city and the city is also important to ensure that as many people as possible can find decoupling, joy and new forces in the vicinity of nature and culture. If a strong regional policy mobilization with a reinforced tool is not implemented, the developments we are seeing today will lead to an even greater accumulation of establishments and jobs in central areas. This will create pressure problems in terms of a traffic-laden environment, pressures on green and leisure space and sky-high housing prices. A policy of decentralisation will help to ensure a good environment and living conditions in the big cities as well. The centre party will give peoples and communities greater power over the local resource base, the very authority for a large part of the value creation here in the country. State policies must help to ensure local control, while ensuring the necessary redistribution and basic security for all citizens. An economic system based on the free flow of capital is not the way to go for someone who will allow people to continue to use the whole country. A broad public commitment and ability to lift in flocks are key characteristics of good communities. The municipal structure, with its many small and large units, is one of the most powerful tools we have to secure decentralised production and a correspondingly good service supply. At the state level, too, the rule of the people must be strengthened. The Centre Party will underline the need for consistency between tasks and resources in the municipal sector as a basis for good and well-functioning well-being both in the press areas and in the district municipalities. We are deeply disunited in the conversion of the government now in action when it concerns the local economy. A unilateral conversion in favour of the larger municipalities, the loss compensation, the agricultural office criteria, and even the criteria for access to sports facilities, are examples of how a one-sided counting of the head can work very misleadingly, not least for the many municipalities involved. Norway must have freedom of action to pursue an active district policy. As long as the EEA Agreement is in force, Norway must use the right to veto EU directives which prevent us from achieving district policy objectives. We are pleased with the broad deal that is in the setting when it comes to differentiated employer fees, as a decisive important district policy tool. The government's investment is in robust regions. The entire Committee agrees that the regions need to be strengthened. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV are in disagreement with the Government that it will be followed for the smaller municipalities. Let me point to suggestions and comments in this setting that show much more trust and trust in the districts: Firstly, a distortion of state investment is necessary in order to secure areas other than the central eastern part of the country where the infrastructure is needed. Secondly, a plan for the relocation of state jobs will bring benefits both for the state and for too many district municipalities. The Labour Party and the Progress Party reject a proposal that will open up future threats in many communities. The central government got several reports that provided a good basis for a plan, a scheme that could ensure a closer interaction between the state, individual municipalities and the government to get as good a preconception as possible. Thirdly, broadband at the same cost across the country provides new opportunities for greater dissemination of skills and different jobs. The Labour Party also has good objectives here, but unfortunately the Progress Party refuses to look at what kind of State more funding is needed. Fourthly, routines must be defined as defining the consequences for rural policy as part of the decision-making basis for deciding whether to re-establish policy in key areas of society. Fifth, a private pot on the state budget of broadband where the market does not reach is to demonstrate in practice the organisation of equivalent supply. The last thing I want to mention is a youth's SND, the relocation of study places, and greater investment in decentralised education. All these factors are taking young people and women seriously as target groups. The centre control braked the moving current. The Labour Party is now continuing with its conscious centralization. It starts with mail, tele and NSB. In the last year, the Storting has taken decisions that will cause many communities to become or will be lost for jobs. The last thing happened last week when the majority of the population adopted the hospital reform. In total, a lot of these decisions involve a longer way to the services, and in some cases a greater distance between those who control and those who are being directed. In agriculture, those who really lay the foundation for settlement, according to the Labour Party and the Right Party's point of view, are going down in income at a time when everyone else is going up. More means of road maintenance could be ensured in the revised national budget. 160 slums that are at risk of closure are a symptom of a municipal economy that breaks the smallest and most scattered municipalities in this country. And then, finally, I want to deal with the suggestions that the Central Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1632	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1637	There was a lot that could have been said here, but I have to try to control myself! It is in the setting: ‘District and regional policies need more than before to take account of the situation throughout the country and to clarify the opportunities available to the different parts of the country to meet the new needs of the population and business. This requires a broad approach in policy, with the development of the business environment and the provision of public and private services, leisure services, housing and jobs becoming central. Efforts to develop robust societies are becoming more important than efforts towards single sites and businesses. Therefore, long-term and coordinated action, with a wide range of instruments, will be necessary to succeed in rural and regional policy. This is the main foundation of the Regional and Regional Policy that the Government draws up in this Communication.’ Furthermore, it says that there are more and more ‘who actively chooses to live in cities because of the offers, or combinations of offers, which are only possible where many people are gathered. The causes of this development are complex. Family and life situations, combined with work opportunities, are important factors. Developments are driven by a desire for a lifestyle characterised by freedom of choice, diverse employment and education opportunities, varied cultural services and greater diversity in lifestyle, family organisation, leisure and recreation opportunities. This re-establishes new public supply and regulation requirements, so that the people’s desire for flexibility is reflected’. It goes on to say that: ‘this development is not isolated to the largest cities but takes place throughout the country in regional centres, local agglomerations and suburbs of the largest cities. Through new communication opportunities and improved transport, the country has become more closely linked, while impulses from the outside world reach everyone. Many of the same needs and trends are common across the country, and new policy demands are made. So my question to the Center Party is, why isn't the Center Party included in a reality description, as the rest of the committee is in the setting, from which I have now quoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1659	The center part is not included in this comment for a reason: we actually thought that this description gives a somewhat half image of what is the actual situation. We want to underline that not everyone moves because they find offers that are so much more interesting or because the grass is so much greener on the other side. In fact, surveys show that there are very many, not least among young people in our country, who say they would be bulging if they had been able to work. In a study in the autumn of 1999, over 50 pst were actually reported. Of those who had moved, that they had completely safe, or perhaps, had not moved if the relationship had been better arranged. Then it's not so important for us to do things unilaterally for the possibilities, the everyday life, for the purpose of moving, even though I'm not taking the distance from as much of what Leif Lund read here. We thought it important to focus on measures that provide a better balance, which would also involve much better urban and urban housing conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1664	The central party and majority tax policies, including air passenger charges and depreciation rules, are a good example of poor district policies. Then the representative, Meltveit Kleppa, says that the road appropriations could have been raised. Yes, the Central Party has failed our common promises for the entire four-year period in terms of road appropriations. But the centre party seems to be in need of light in the tunnel every four years, and in connection with the revision, you suddenly find that you had to have appropriations to go. The right has proposed half a billion and signalled subsidiary support for all the proposals below, but as we approach voting, these proposals are gone, and the centre is spread for all the winners. The question is: is there a point for the Central Party to go into the summer holiday with many good suggestions for which there can't be a majority? And is it not also the case that this district uprising mentioned in the speech to the President-in-Office of the Council must be said to be directed towards the Central Party and the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party? I can't see that the Center Party with great weight can flag support for a district uprising almost to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1675	First, to the claim that we produce our good proposals every four years. It is one year both in my and in the Center Party's life, and so far also in Norwegian history, that will be standing ready for us in retrospect. This is the year 1998 when the 1999 budget was to be laid down, and both the Norwegian economy, the international economy, oil prices and so on. were illiterate. It was a budget where the starting point was actually to cut $9 billion instead of additions. I must remind you, sir. Headquarters that there is a heavy reality that we have to take into account when it comes to the central government's handling of road investments. When it comes to the national transport plan, we actually called for a strong increase. We thought there was room for 900 million. kr more p.a. years in the next period than the government meant, but we're glad we got multiples for at least 500 million. That's it. When it came to revision, I thought the Right came up with a good and creative proposal. The dilemma is that this should be both a proposal for addition and a proposal for containment. And the suggestions that one of them discussed when it came to containment were not exactly of the best manageable for the Center Party. I'm glad we got multiples for 70 million. kr for protection and road maintenance. But I agree with Mr. Hoddevik that it would be undesirable if we had got much more. I am also pleased that the Right is associated with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party on a plan for the relocation of state workplaces. That's what I think I really want to give you a new one for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1688	It might be tempting to follow up on this with the permissions on the way. The truth is, we've had four years, and it was one year, 1998, that was difficult. I thought that the whole post of the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and the comments of the Center Party and the Center Party's program was a mistrust of us who live in the districts, because one put up a policy where we're not able to stand on our own bones, where we're going to have big transfers, where one in the politics suggests that one should charge taxes and charges in such a mont that one kills the business, then to distribute this again to more or less good companies. Now they've been trying this medicine for 50 years – over the last 20 years, the Senter Party has basically had hands on the steering wheel of every single state budget – and it's taken the patient's life. It has been shown that if an increase in the amount of the drug that has been prescribed, it kills him. The last thing is that the divisional model, which the Center Party was involved in, and which the Center Party has not taken a single step to do anything about, now leads business owners to sell themselves out, sells their companies to investment companies located in Oslo, so that the local owner gets away, the local association that in spite of many things exists a dozen furniture factories along the Møre coast. It's against all the laws of nature that they're there. There are some businesses out in the district that are built up there, but thank the local ownership they're tearing weather and wind, taxes and taxes, and have done it for a long time. But when the central part, together with the others, just adds more and more, they cut out, and the moving current continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1702	I want to take both the Progress Party and the Special Representative Lodve Solholm seriously, but I actually found it difficult if he here claims that the Center Party's proposals and the Center Party's comments are out of trust with people who live in the districts. Either he's read these notes with special glasses, or he won't take in what the center part wants. It is possible that there is a lack of our policies, but at least there is a fundamental difference when it comes to the government and public engagement that the Center Party believes should be present as a basis for a better distribution, both in terms of jobs and construction. I understand that the Progress Party wants the strongest to survive. Based on the idea they have when it comes to health care, and the comparison he made with patients, one would believe that he was at least in favour of price financing in relation to those who live in the districts. Nor does it pass through the progress game. They even think it's crazy to decentralize public jobs. Moreover, it shall not be a regional policy strategy to provide at least a support device for the industry in the districts. When it comes to the sharing model, there were several good proposals that received a majority in the 2001 budget. With regard to anti-food proposals made by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party was in charge of the other centre parties and had them rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1717	The Communication provides a good basis for good rural and regional policy. In the Committee there is broad agreement on the main purpose of the Communication. But there are shared opinions on how to achieve the goal. The medicine of the Party of Advancement is as usual that each must be his own success blacksmith. In order to maintain a viable District Norway, there are a number of issues that need attention. Better communications are needed in all areas. Good health and cultural services are important. Good school services targeting local business are also one of the main means of achieving a healthy and good business in the districts. Over time, the school board has trained young people for jobs other than those offered by the home. This is a major challenge for the school community. A unanimous committee says that fisheries and aquaculture have a high growth potential in the future. When oil production declines, the seafood industry will take over and provide export income to the country. Expert teams claim that it is only a matter of time before the by-products and yields from the fish become more valuable than the fish meat itself. Therefore, we need to increase the research and development of the so-called by-products. As regards the development of the fishing industry, the Right Party and the Advance Party have comments in the vote that deserve some comments. It is very difficult to regulate the different fisheries. However, if the view of the Right and the Advance Party on fewer regulations is to be implemented, it will not be easier to achieve good regulation. The right hand party and the Progress Party also have the objective of allowing as much as possible investment in the fishing profession. The problem is not a lack of fishermen, but that we have too many fishermen, and then the Right Party and the Advance Party's remark are a little grounded. The availability of resources and the number of professionals are closely linked and the aim must be to achieve stability in the industry where there is a link between available raw material and catching capacity. When the Right and Advance Party also have as their policy the need to facilitate the fishing industry's ownership of fishing vessels, the situation for fishermen is further exacerbated. Norway is served with a fishing fleet, not an accumulation of fleets among the fishing industries. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party have previously had the aim of abolishing the Raw Fish Act, but in the setting they do not say anything about it. They point out that it must be possible to conclude long-term supply agreements between the purchaser and the seller, without these being set aside by the sales laws. Here the Right Party and the Advance Party raise a theoretical problem. Today, long-term contracts may be concluded, but with the safety valve that the sales team can intervene and implement catch diversion also for them with such agreements. When I mention this as a theoretical problem, it is because the last time such conducting was introduced in cod fishing was in 1977. Also SV has some comments that require a comment from my side. When SV believes that boats less than 15 metres must be able to fish freely with passive tools, such a system will be a severe setback for the coast. There has been a broad consensus that we should have a coastal fleet of jacks and larger vessels. In view of the working conditions of fishermen and the needs of the industry for raw materials, there has also been an agreement to invest in larger coastal vessels. And then it can't be that a boat under 15 meters can fish freely, while a boat that is larger and more expensive must be in peace. In addition, such a system would lead everyone to obtain boats that were just under 15 meters. In a free fishing with yarn, line and juxa, large quantities will be taken up with current efficiency in addition to the total quotas laid down. I have believed that SV was a member of a sound management of resources, but after this proposal it does not look like this. Nor can it be that boats less than 15 metres are allowed to fish freely within the total quota and that the larger boats are to fish what the boats below 15 metres cannot take. I would also like to point out that Norway is bound by international agreements on total quotas. No, President, that proposal is also not useful in terms of improving the future of the coast. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that all regulations should be as fair as possible and be able to provide a fair outcome for all, and that the regulation can thus have good legitimacy among the practitioners. If they do not, it is also difficult to implement them and get an understanding of what is actually required of the Norwegian fishing industry today. I refer to the Workers' Party's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1743	The representative Einar Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1748	I am pleased that we in the Christian People's Party are together with the Workers' Party on the main objective mentioned in the setting, namely to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. I then wonder, and I want to ask: how does the representative Johansen see the possibility of this if we are going to continue in the same way as it is pointed out in the settings, namely that 69 pst. the transport investments over the ten-year period 1988-1998 were located at a 45-minute driving distance from Oslo. Will this provide the infrastructure needed to get our goods to the markets to the districts? In hearings held by the Committee, we have, among other things: visited the Finnmark County – the representative Johansen's own home country. The general product rapporteur then pointed out that without a radical change in investment policy, Finnmark could be put down. In the South West, billions have been invested in the oil industry – investments that are like a magnet, which must necessarily lead to relocation – while in his own state, Finnmark County, there was no investment at all. Is the Workers' Party willing to look at these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1757	When the representative of Østberg brings up some important things, I would like to point out that what is happening is that the Christian People's Party in the last budgets has, to a large extent, had a hand on the steering wheel in that context. But it is clear that we need a stepping up in the areas mentioned. I also believe that if we look at the transport plan that has been adopted, we will see that it will be stepped up, but in the interests of districts, we always have a desire for it to go faster. When you refer to investment and the statements made by the county food rapporteur in Finnmark, at least I think that we have major challenges in Finnmark in terms of farming and fisheries – in both of these areas there are opportunities for development that will give the districts a new boost if they are properly managed. We also have gas outside Hammerfest – the so-called Snow White field. In this context, large investments are to be made, both on land and on the island that is the basis for what is to be done out there. There are major challenges, which also require a very high level of competence for those who are going to work there. Some skills are available in Finnmark, and those who have left can come back and work in that type of work. So if both fishing, breeding and this Snow White field starts within a reasonable time, I think we have challenges in Finnmark that we can address. We're 74 000 people, so it's probably limited what huge investments we can make. We cannot expect investments in the Gardermoen and OL to be investments that will benefit Finnmark, but we have challenges if we take them and arrest them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1768	Let me first make a confession to begin with. After reading the district announcement from the Government, I wondered: What are we really going to discuss when the Storting is going to make an adjustment? And what's going to be the points of conflict? Because here it's nice. There are, above all, many words and many descriptions here, but there is hardly any indication of a new measure that is not directly linked to the closure of the county council and its changes, already mentioned in another communication. I intend to ask the representative Johansen to explain to me what he sees as the government's new policy, or what has changed in this message. Or has this somehow become a ritual delivery of a communication on district policy that is to come every four years, in the final phase of Stortingen's work? Then it is that in reality, the framework conditions, the other things that are done on the Storting, mean more than the things that are discussed and rewritten in the setting, and it is more important for the district industries when the depreciation rate is reduced in two years – something the center parties and the Workers' Party agreed on – from 4 pst. For 1 pst. in industrial buildings, the same industrial buildings that have all the activity we want to put into innovation centres and businesses and everything else. It is also important that the lack of labour at present appears to be the strongest and to create the biggest problems in the industries that depend on unskilled labour, and which are then, in fact, also largely located in District Norway. Then I have a question that goes on the answer the representative had when it came to the optimism in Finnmark: to what extent is it possible in Finnmark to develop the potential that we have, in the farming industry, in further processing and in fisheries, if we do not have better access to labour and a little more opportunity to import labour in the future? Is it not true that what we are actually reporting from the companies that are going to create this future is that the lack of labour is the biggest problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1781	The representative, Solberg, points out that the message basically only contains a lot of words. It would have been possible for the Right to make radical proposals that had meant something more than what has been promoted, but I haven't seen that. I just want to point out what I started with, that there was really a lot of agreement about that message adding up as a goal, and then there was some disagreement about how to achieve that goal. But when you talk about district policy, there's a lot of pieces going to fall into place. It could be community economics, it could be transportation, it could be health, etc., and before you see all those pieces together, it's probably hard to point to completely explicit things that have to be done, and just stop doing it. You might have to see things in a better context. In the case of a lack of workers, that is what is being said. One way to solve this is, of course, better schooling, and – as I was in my post – getting a schoolwork that educates young people into the workplaces that are there, and not educating them to travel to other areas of the country. Labour imports are, of course, a topic that has been changing, and a certain opening has also been given to imports of labour from our neighbourhoods in Russia. It has been claimed, in particular, by those who in the fishing industry get that labour force, that it is good labour, but it has been a bit of a lengthy process. However, I have the understanding that this is being corrected. It is clear that in such large expansions as the Snow White field, labour will also be needed from outside during periods of construction, but during the operational phase it will stabilise, as it usually does in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1790	The representative Einar Johansen's articles became somewhat vehement in relation to the many themes contained in this message. He largely limited himself to disfellowshipping the Advancement Party and the Right, and then to talk exclusively about fishing. But let me focus on what is a very central element and theme in the Norwegian regional policy debate, namely maintaining the main features of the housing pattern in the districts. The district debate has evolved into a debate on more money and more support for the outlying municipalities and the creation of jobs. The working party says in the setting that there is no money shortage that is the major problem for Norwegian outboards, but that more jobs need to be created in the districts. Of course, this is a proper analysis, but at the same time the Labour Party seems to agree that the relocation of state jobs is a good regional policy strategy. Then I would like to challenge the Workers' Party a little bit around it with the relocation of state jobs. Does the Workers' Party agree that, as the Progress Party claims, social benefits should lie at the heart of the decentralisation of state jobs, i.e. that there must be practical, economic or efficiency-enhancing gains for the country if we are to choose to decentralise and move out state jobs? Or will the Workers' Party be in favour of the relocation of State jobs, justified by regional policy considerations alone? I would like to have a clarification from the Workers' Party on my questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1797	When the representative, Andersen, realizes that it was a clever post, he probably thinks about it with the time spent. Of course, in 5 minutes it is limited what you can take with you, and then I concentrated on what I know most about, namely the profession that I have been doing in approx. 40 years, all the time there are several things about it in the case. When it comes to preserving the settlement, there might be a lot of things to point to there. However, it is not at least useful to stimulate an increase in the number of jobs in the districts if you are to follow the model of the Progress Party, for example. SND shall have no role at all. SND is probably one of the most important tools we have in our districts to create jobs. As far as public jobs are concerned in the districts, it's clear that there's no need to say, there's going to be 100 public jobs here, and now we're going to see if we can think of something to do. There must be jobs that have a meaning and that have to be added somewhere, not just because you need to do something in it and in that municipality – it's not about employment, it's about jobs with meaningful work. We have a lot of examples. We have the collection centre in Bear Water, which, as far as I know, has over 100 employees, and which does an excellent job, and with little pervasiveness, precisely because in the districts there is little competition for labour, and then has a more stable workforce, which both the employer and society serve. I also believe that the Post has a separate department in Hammerfest as the accountant, etc., if I am not misinformed. There are also stable jobs that need to be added somewhere, and that is the type of jobs you think about and not employment projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1806	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1809	The country is beautiful and fjord is deep, and the Christian People's Party wants to use this whole country. Why is that? Well, because it's healthy, sensible and profitable. But it doesn't happen by itself, and that's why we need an active and targeted district policy. Norway is a big country, but with little people. We live spread, and we have to look at that as a foremon. But that, of course, means challenges. And one of the challenges is transportation. It is fundamental both for business and for construction that roads in the districts are satisfying, and that rail, air and maritime transport operate where it is natural. It's strange and really uneconomic that we don't have a coastal line as an efficient transport corridor to the continent for fish and aquaculture products. It is inefficient, quality-lowering and cost-effective that the most important export industries of the future may have to run a longer route around Eastfold to deliver fish to the continent. The environment also suffers. So it's alarming when as much as 69 pst. of transport investments over a 10-year period go to the Oslo area. It doesn't help that the explanation is Gardermoen, because the districts are damaged, and therefore the business community. It's a bad economy not to bet on districts. For Norway is dependent on the fact that there are people in the districts. Our natural resources are the basis for both value creation and export income, and these resources can be found in District Norway. But, of course, it is expensive to transport the products far to the market. That is why it is reasonable and sensible that we have a regional policy tool, such as a government agency. differentiated employer fee. It is also unimaginable that the EU imposes on such a piggy country as ours to set up fees because the distance to larger centres is short in the air. Mountain and fjords make our districts have extra costs that you don't have in Europe. We have fishing and aquaculture, fossils that give us electricity and industry, oil and gas, forest and soil – which is the farmers’ resource base – shipping and fjords, mountains and beautiful nature, which is the basis for tourism – I would like to stress that much of District Norway is not a cost item for the country, but has greater value creation and transfer to the big community than they get back. Subsidians don't go unilaterally from Oslo to the districts, but actually also from the districts to the central districts. Pure food is an important value. The major food disasters in Europe should have taught us that. Small-scale farming is a guarantee of good animal health and thus of healthy and pure food, and it is worth taking care of. And the farmers that grow the small soil patches are also absolutely necessary if we are to keep up the settlement and thus create the basis for tourism. Multi-functional agriculture is important for districts. Those who spend their holidays and leisure time experiencing Norwegian trades in price and weather conditions are unlikely to do so if the towns are depopulated and the bays are overgrown. If we are to use the whole country, people must live and feed throughout the country. And then the big community has to suck for the local community to have schools, shops and public services at a reasonable distance. It's to tear down our nutrient base if we pick the districts for the services that everyone needs to have in order to be able to live. Even if Norway is in jumbo space when it comes to foundering, Norway has been a country of creative entrepreneurs. We have over 100,000 small businesses and many one-man or wife companies. But far more ideas are born than those that come into production, and many have also sold out of Norway because there was not enough capital to put a good product into production. That's why we need SND, nutrition funds, etc. for viable entrepreneurs to see the light of day. Public involvement in the form of direct bonuses, responsible loans or guarantees may help many projects get over the first knee. It is unlikely that the private market will be able to handle such tasks at relatively high risk, and the Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is right that the public relieves the risk in a project that a believer has the right to life, through seed funds or guarantees. Now I see that I don't have time to keep my whole article, but I want to finally stress that the Christian People's Party believes that the community can find its own solutions to the joy of its inhabitants, and that freedom locally means that a find creative ideas. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is a proposal maker or co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1833	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The time for this morning's meeting is almost over, but the president intends to complete a notified change of line before we cancel the meeting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1840	Although the representative Apelthun Seele was not allowed to keep his entire post, there is at least a lot of what was said, which we can agree with. But the setting is characterized by the fact that SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party come together in many comments. And one of them points out that exceptional efforts are needed to achieve the main objectives of rural and regional policy, and it goes on to say: ‘These members lack the holistic measures they need to take to reverse trends in a path that can ensure the well-being and business of the districts.’ And then I would like to ask the representative of Apelthun Seele: What concrete overall measures were the Bondevik government put forward and that have not now been followed up in this message? So Apelthun's representative was finally convinced that it's also a bit up to the communities themselves what kind of future they're going to create. And that certainly reflects what is in the commentary from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. It states that these members ‘have strong confidence that the community can find its own solutions to its own tasks by using its own forces’. It also states that the private initiative can be ‘scaled by public exposure’. And then I have to ask: what kind of public engagement, what kind of means, if any, is the Christian People's Party going to say no to because it's going to choke the private initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1854	The questions that are general and large are often the most difficult to answer. But when the representative asks what happened during the Bondevik administration, there really were some things that happened. Some of what happened was that for the first time in the entire post-war period, the moving current stopped up. It didn't quite happen, we think. We think it was because the districts got some kind of faith in the future, and that's important. I think the agricultural policy that the farmers for the first time were actually a little pleased with was part of it. One was given a suggestion that one was pleased with, and it reversed some of the trend in our society. So we move out government jobs, and we promised that this would be done. Of course, we set too short a time to do what we wanted. The local economy also had a device that I believe made the moving current stop. We're proud of it. I just have to admit it. We are proud of what we have been able to do. So how can public engagement strangle the districts? Exposure may be the wrong word to use in that context, but public regulation can strangle anything, including involvement or development in the district. We have to be careful not to create rules that are adapted to a narrow part of Norway, for example. around Oslo, and then we use it in North Norway or inside Hardangerfjorden. It doesn't match. The messages are many from people who want to do something for their buildings and who are stopped by rules and regulations that they don't understand should be there at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1863	Norway is a large country, said representative Anita Apelthun Seele properly enough, and transportation is the basis for both nutrition and housing in the districts. The road network is important, says Seele at the outset. It is clear that it is affordable that she is concerned about transportation. It's expensive, it's a trouble for Norwegian districts with the charges we have at distances here in the country. Since the representative focused on transportation, let's focus on the strange distance constraints, which the Christian People's Party has also done its best to maximise through high charges. I am thinking not only of the district hostile strange tax policy on car and fuel, but of the charges we have on distances through air travel, which, as far as I am aware, the Christian People's Party has also helped raise the level up to the great heights. For a return trip, Tromsø now costs more than NOK 6000. On average, the tax component here in the country is approx. 34 pst. on air travel, while in the rest of Europe the same level of charges is approximately the same. 15 pst. So you pay around NOK 2 500 in charge on an air trip-return Tromsø–Oslo. I would like to ask the Christian People's Party whether they really don't realize how appropriate such extraordinary flight charges are in a district policy context, when she initially mentioned that we have a large and long country. Everyone knows that. We have a country that depends on a good communication network, not just on the road, but planes are becoming more and more important in our time. And then we perform here in the country to charge so much on air travel that it is almost impossible to travel by plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1872	Roads are important, said the representative from the Progress Party. It's good that we're a few about something. That's why the Christian People's Party has been busy promoting road development, and in the national transport plan we've got a total of 9 000 million for a decade. kr more on roads and road development. When I use the large number, it's not because I can't share, but because the Progress Party often uses the large numbers. 900 million. Of course, every year will mean something, although it is true that the country is long and large, and road investment per year. meters are expensive in Norway compared to what they are in many other countries. Distance costs are a problem for business, for air travel too. I'm going to admit that the Progress Party has a point here when you can travel half the price to New York in relation to what it costs to travel to Tromsø, and it's a problem that we're forced to take seriously in a more international value. At the same time, some of the fees and revenues that enter the treasury go back to some districts. We also have what we have to take seriously, that the environment is the most important environment we have in the world to live on here. The impurity must be serious as well. But of course – to think is to compare, and the comparison between Oslo – Tromsø and Oslo – New York shows that the price of Tromsø is quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1879	The representatives of the Centre Party and SV write in the setting that ‘art and culture are both rooted in communities and bridge builders to the rest of the world’. We also have a note that cultural expressions may be the expression of the diversity around and some of the basis for the good life of the community. It has amazed me quite a bit that the Christian People's Party has not been involved in this emphasis on the importance of culture for good life, even in the districts. I could imagine that the representative Apelthun Seele could explain a little bit why the Christian People's Party's district policy is so nearly chemically free of culture as this attitude is at least. It amazes me. I think it's a very little targeted policy, because I think that being able to participate in cultural activities is part of the good life for a modern person, whether you live in the village or in the city. So I could imagine getting an answer to that. In addition, Apelthun’s representative concluded his main contribution to praising local freedom in decisions, and that it would promote many good new actions. That's what SV thinks. For this reason, SV has made a proposal, which we are all about, that most district policy instruments should be put into pooling pools, so that municipalities or county municipalities can decide what they want to spend the money for. They know where the shoe is pressing. They have the basis for making the best decisions. If they want to spend the money on nutrition, let them do it. If they want to spend the money on the road, let them do it. If they want to spend the money on culture, let them do it. If the school needs money, they will be allowed to spend the money there. Why is not the Christian People's Party willing to give such freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1888	It is true that the Christian People's Party is together with the Center Party and SV about a lot of comments – for a while there were so many comments that I wondered if it might seem disturbing; one might think we were one party. After all, we're not. However, in the area of regional policy, we have many conflicting views. When it comes to culture, the Christian People's Party has written its own little note about culture, to which SV does not join. It amazes me. It insists that culture, church, sport and voluntary organisations are important for its flourishing in District Norway. It may have something to do with us having different visions to do, but for me it was important to underline this. It is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that we don't just need something to live from, we also need something to live for. Art and culture are such a dimension that we want to take care of. So if the representative from SV thinks we don't want to underline it, then it's a huge misunderstanding. So to this with local freedom. The Christian People's Party is involved in many remarks where an underscores local freedom, where one underlines the need for a simpler Norway, and where one at local level can take own decisions that are appropriate to the community. Then it says try to make that a comment that we're not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11.ana.ud723e1899	The cord shift is over. It is also the time for this morning's meeting. The President is now canceling this morning's meeting, and a new meeting is scheduled at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox
