ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e24	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be restricted to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to one of the independent representatives. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Finn Kristian Marthinsen, on behalf of the case leader, who is a member of the Lagginget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e33	The case rapporteur for this private bill has been Åse Wisløff Nilssen, as the president explained to be a member of the Lagtinget. In June 2000, the Stortinget decided to lower the per million limit for the driver of the motor vehicle to 0,2. Today we have again the per million limit of debate. The representatives Foss, Krohn Devold and Nilsen, from the Right, and Stang, the former Progress Party, clearly considered it highly justified to propose raising the per mill limit back to 0.5, despite the fact that the new per mill limit of 0.2 had only worked for 10 weeks. As an argument for the alleged need for rematching the pro-mille border, they have referred to the opinions of the police officers in Uttrendelag, Troms, Bergen, Lillehammer and Kristiansand and the head of the Police Joint Union. It is claimed that the new pro-mille provision will take resources from important police tasks and that justice and prison will be further burdened. When we look at the statistics on police control efforts in the first quarter of this year, we can say that the proposers have been too quick with their negative judgment. For what the statistics show is that the control has increased, mainly as a result of an increase in the response of the U.S. police. The average number of hours spent by police departments was reduced. Furthermore, there is a halve of licence receipts in the first two months of this year, compared to the same period last year. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that it is already reasonable to assume that the amendment of the law has led to fewer actually operating per million. This indicates that the law has had the intended effect. That's why it's tempting in relation to the work on this matter and the debate we now have, to send back a sentence from Krohn Devold's speech on the previous pro-mileline debate, June 6th last year: "I think it will help to weaken people's perception that we are actually dealing with serious things in this house." The Christian People's Party, and the majority of the Committee, are very pleased that the police director has been so clear that police districts will continue to have a high level of activity in road safety work and that the enforcement of the new per-mile limit will be followed up loyally. It was supposed to be missing, too! The Police Directorate has announced that it will monitor developments closely and evaluate both the efforts of the police and the effects of legislative changes. It is important that it is followed up, and the Christian People's Party noted that many of the police districts had a factual and very good campaign against drug driving in December. The greatest difference between majority and minority in this case is actually the principle of alcohol and driving. The majority believe that a per mille limit of 0,2 gives a clear and clear signal that alcohol and driving do not belong together. It is easy for everyone to deal with, and there have also been many feedbacks that it feels positive that it is no longer possible to wonder how much you can drink before you sit behind the wheel. The objective of not killing or life-long damage to traffic has been taken into account in road safety work and the reduction of the per-mile limit to 0.2 is an important element of this work. The Right Party and the Advance Party claim that a 0.2-mile limit strongly interferes with the general freedom of action and lifestyle of the population, and that drinking a little before driving is so firmly attached to people's consciousness that it can undermine people's respect for the pro-mille legislation in general to lower the per-mille limit to 0.2. The agreed reduction in the per mille limit is actually characterised as crazy and unwise. There is a strong diet, especially when a large number of people are injured or killed as a result of accidents involving per mille drivers. It is estimated that at 7-10 pst. of injuries and 25 pst. of those killed by traffic, one per mill drive is involved. Driving and alcohol are literally a life-threatening combination. With a per mill limit of 0.2, we get clear attitudes, and as legislators we have to make clear that alcohol and driving are socially unacceptable. The majority of the Committee therefore does not agree with the proposal to raise the threshold again. It also appears that the sale of non-alcoholic beer has increased after 1 January of the current year, and it shows that there are good and available alternatives to alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e70	It is only one year since the Multiplicity of Storting reduces the per million limit to 0.2 when driving a motor vehicle. When changes were made to the Road Traffic Act last year, it was 64 years since Norway had adopted the forward-looking bill we had until then. The fact that in these 64 years we have had a raging development in road traffic, and not least in new and faster cars, is a reality. So we also changed the per million limit to 0.2. What's strange is that the Right, with the leader of the Justice Committee, Kristin Krohn Devold, goes to the top to go back to 0.5 per million because some police officers are trying to underestimate the danger of driving a car in an alcohol-affected condition. In addition, it is unlikely that the committee's leaders will be embarrassed that the law has been effective from the outset for their purposes; it has shown all the control in retrospect. Last year I said that when we've seen the limit of 0.5 per million, we're allowed to drink a little bit, and there's a signal that it doesn't matter how much this little is. There is no doubt that with that per million limit, the limit could also be exceeded by 0.5 per million. With the short time that the law has worked, we see that there are fewer who run with promille, even though the controls have been more during this period. There are fewer chances of drinking. In other words, the preventive role that was intended with a lower limit has worked. This should also give the proposers a hint that they should have pulled the case before she came to the Chamber. It is more important that fewer and fewer cars run under the influence of alcohol or other drugs than that we have a law that provides room for a so - called calculated alcohol content. The work force is going out strongly and means that alcohol and car don't belong together. This means that we have to take the consequences of it, even when we design our legislation in relation to the objectives we have seen. The fact that the Right aims to make a proposal to send out other signals to the nation's population once a year in each magnification period gets to be Right's case. I think that this kind of signal is just to emphasize how little right-wing and judicial speech women are doing to reduce traffic accidents and injuries, or to make more citizens offenders because they think they're below the calculated limit. I would like to mention again that last year the vast majority of hearing aids went in to lower the promille limit to 0.2. For us in the Workers' Party, it has been important to send out a clear signal to everyone driving a motor vehicle: Don't run with the prom! I would like to stress that it is not a moral responsibility to achieve alcohol policy objectives, but to ensure that road safety is maintained for road users. There is no doubt that it costs society a lot of money to get a development where more and more people get hurt in traffic. That people take this seriously, we also see through different changing consumption patterns. It's not long since we could read in the newspapers that breweries sold far more light beer than before, a positive outcome that probably has its background from our changed legislation. For the Labour Party, it is important, as I said, that we have a law that clearly signals, in this case, that it is not possible to combine alcohol or other drugs with driving — an important signal to all of us, and a good signal to our children and young people. That the Right selects another line when it comes to sending out a signal to the people, gets, as I said, up to the Right, but one doesn't have to do it demonstratively by taking up a bill change proposal every year to get it down. It can give the opposite impression in most people, that laws can be as far as possible, and calculate that most things are going well. The Labour Party takes a great deal of distance from seeing our policies in such a way. We want people to feel that there is no room to "calculate" within the law at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e93	It is quite right that this is a rematch, at least an attempt at a rematch, in relation to a proposal that was defeated relatively recently. I will pay attention to some relatively few comments. I think that in particular the last article, but also partly the use of Finn Kristian Marthinsen's words, underlines that the majority has a bad case. Suspicion of the Right's position in this case in relation to road safety and the signal that alcohol and driving are not connected cannot be seen in any other way than that there are no relevant arguments to deal with. I would like to conclude that there are no instances of anything in the vicinity of a scientific nature that can prove that there is some road safety risk when driving between 0,2 and 0,5 per mill. On the other hand, there is a relatively dramatic increase in the risk from 0.5 and up to 1 per million. I find it rather uncomfortable to use something as serious as traffic damage and traffic death in this argument, but when it is put up that way, I have to mention that the tragic statistics on traffic fatalities for 1998, 1999, 2000 and the first four months of this year respectively show 83 deaths, 70 deaths, 90 deaths and 88. So the number of deaths went up from 70 to 90 one year, there's two fewer this year, that's random. One of our main objections is the use of the Road Traffic Act as an alcohol policy instrument instead of using the resources of the police to deploy countermeasures that can really do something to reduce the large number of traffic victims. It is certainly to the satisfaction of the breweries that produce alcohol-free beer, that they have increased their sales, but it should not be an objective to use it as an argument in a matter of road safety. During the review of the suspension last time, we received evidence from the National Lawyer, from the Association of Lawyers, from the Joint Association of Police, from the LO, and not least from the State juridical institute, that at this type of very low alcohol concentration there is no scientific evidence to claim that this is traffic prevention and leads to fewer accidents. I understand that those who have a relatively fundamentalist attitude to the abstinence movement want to use this law to promote the abstinence issue, but it is therefore quite unfair to use road safety and the infinite suffering that results from traffic damage, as a reason to prejudice a purely alcohol policy view.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e106	I shall be brief, as I feel that the representative Marthinsen has made a thorough presentation of the majority's views. So the proposal is a rematch attempt after a majority, where the centre party was involved, adopted the introduction of a pro-mille limit of 0.2 for drivers of motor vehicles. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2001. The majority indicated at that time that the objective of introducing a low per mille limit was: giving a clear signal that alcohol and driving do not belong together to improve road safety and reduce accidents There is every reason to rejoice that significantly fewer people are driving under the influence of alcohol. We are convinced that this can be attributed to the new per million limit of 0.2. In the first quarter of this year, the police have used 33 pst in total. more hours than last year to carry out per-million checks, show figures from the Directorate of Police. However, the number of drivers who have been seized has decreased by 33 pst. In the first quarter of last year, there were 860 drivers who were seized for driving in the affected condition, corresponding numbers this year are 673, writes the weekly newspaper The People's Future. Not least the discussion about the introduction of a new limit on alcohol in the blood of drivers, we in the Centre Party believe that we have contributed to less drunkenness. It has had a positive effect only because it has been focused on caution with the combination of alcohol and driving. Furthermore, we in the Center Party are most pleased that the law change is motivated by the attitude aspect. We hope that we can also justify road safety contributions in the future. Finally, in the Central Party, we believe it is right to establish a goal that no one should be killed or fatally injured in traffic. The reduction of the per mille limit to 0,2 is part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e132	The proposal for the reintroduction of 0,5 per mille is based on the decision taken on 6 June last year. It is again about the actions that will result in punishment and fines in Norway. After the new pro-mille limit came into force in the New Year, the police districts in this country have halved their work on pro-mille checks, so I'm keeping the U.S. Police out. There are several police officers who want to get back the previously well-functioning prom limit. The reactions have come from Bergen, Tromsø, Lillehammer and Kristiansand, to mention someone. I want to claim the same thing as more police people do, that the new limit does not match all the resource use. It is understandable when it turns out that drivers with high pro-mille can go free, because the police have to concentrate more on those who have a pro-mille in the border zone between 0.2 and 0.5. Time and money are spent on controlling drivers in frontier countries with a pro-mille up to 0.5, which primarily has only an academic interest, especially for parties such as the Christian People's Party. The rationale for introducing a new per mille limit of 0.2 is unusually deleted, in the context of Norwegian legislative changes. This change is accompanied by arbitrariness in criminal proceedings. The majority of the population is also warned by professionals and by heavy hearing bodies. But they have spoken for deaf ears, especially to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, who do not have the completely principled and Protestant religious attitudes, which the Christian People's Party understandably is strongly attached to, more than these two parties. The Labour Party and the Centre Party will probably argue that they want to reduce traffic accidents at a lower per million limit as a kind of alibi to defend the scarce majority behind the positions of these parties in the pro-mille border debate. Research shows that lowering the per mille limit from 0,5 to 0,2 has no evidence of an impact on road safety. There is absolutely no basis in the facts to increase the accident rate by a low-promille up to 0,5. Neither in Sweden nor in Denmark, which has reduced its per million limit to 0.2 and 0.5 respectively, has resulted in a significant impact on the number of road accidents. European countries want a common per-million limit of 0.5. If this common desire is adopted within the EU bodies, both Norway and Sweden, which are part of the Schengen and EEA Agreement, must most likely harmonise the per-million limit to the agreed EU level. There is every reason for Norway to reconsider its last year’s law decision. The location of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre's party when the Directive, if any, comes, is highly uncertain. Today, a Danish who is taken too low on Norwegian roads can escape relatively cheaply. If the Danish does not adopt the proposal, he may request the matter to be dealt with under a milder and much more humane Danish legislation. Due to common Nordic regulations, a Danish could actually be convicted in Denmark for pro-mille driving under Norwegian laws, but the Danish will not be able to withdraw the driving licence. Only when you exceed 1.2 per million will you be convicted in Denmark for ‘spiritus driving’ and the driving licence is withdrawn. It is said that it is delicious to be Norwegian in Denmark, but it is okay to be Danish in Norway. There is also considerable uncertainty as to the nature of the penalties to be imposed on low-promille drivers in Norway, except for the imposition of various sky-high fines which arbitrarily take place, because there are no common directives in this area. Penalties may vary according to geography, but also according to different positions of authorities. This is not equal to the law, but it seems to worry the political majority worth mentioning. The criminalisation of normal, non-harmful behaviour undermines legal awareness and is a waste of the resources of the police and taxpayers, with far more concerned with more serious crime. Further work is likely to lead to a more serious crime investigation. It's wrong to take people with prom less than 0.5 when it's not the one that causes traffic accidents. It is a fact that neither the majority of politicians nor bureaucrats have the ability to cope with the worrying increase in drivers driving in drug and pillage. Those who drive under the influence of substances other than alcohol are not hit by the new per mille limit, and this is paradoxical. This has not yet been changed, proving that there are very special considerations that are given priority in the introduction of new per mille limit for alcohol and that the decision is not always based on logic. I would like to address the proposal put forward by the four representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e153	The representative Jørn L. Stang has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e158	The representative, Hernæs, said that the majority has a bad case. Yeah, I guess that's the way it's called, that attack is the best defense. What has happened since the entry into force of the new pro-mille law does not at least speak in favour of the views of the proposers. And what has been said in the debate was also said last June, so that nothing new has come to the square. The only thing that has been new since the last debate is that we have gained some experience with the use of the 0.2-promille law, and so it has, as has been pointed out, led to fewer seizures of driving licences – i.e. from people who run high-promille — despite the fact that there have been many more controls. I'm not saying it's a direct expression of this law, but it speaks for the benefit of this law. At least it does not speak for the benefit of the one who was. Nor has there been any evidence of any risk, it is claimed, when driving with promille in the range between 0,2 and 0,5. I am not so sure if it is Stortinget who is going to run with the evidence in this case, Stortinget will operate with the legislation in this case. What is at least certain, is that to say that driving with a driver's log is OK, it's a terrible bad signal to give! They say that if you have a little prom -- you can drive up to 0.45 -- yeah, then it's OK, and you might be a better driver. We don't want to give such a signal. It's a dangerous signal to give, because we're in a border area. Nor should it be a measure of using non-alcoholic beer as a measure of the effect of 0,2 per mille. No, we haven't. We have not drawn any conclusions, but we have suggested that those who want to reinstate the 0.5-promille, they have a bad case in relation to these facts that have been put on the table in the few months that this law has been working. And then you refer to the police's resource use. The same thing was done before the law was introduced. I don't understand how to do that, when the police have proven to have used much less resources. Why do you have to keep messing about it? And then you say that you're also concerned about the EU and the common per million limit. In his letter to the Minister for Transport, which is attached to the vote, he points out that today our national per-million legislation is in line with the proposed recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e173	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 585]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e187	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each and 5 minutes to one of the independent representatives. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e196	In a short time, Stortinget has made major administrative changes to the structure of the courts and the police. Today, we are dealing with changes to the Law of the Court of Justice that concern the central court administration and the labour law position of the judges. The Proposition is a follow-up of the Court of Justice Commission’s work with the 1999 NOU:19, the Courts of Society. Today, the central administration of the General Courts is added to the Ministry of Justice. The government of Stoltenberg suggests that a non-ministerial court administration be set up. This supports a single committee, but there should still be a responsibility of a parliamentary representative, but the Ministry of Justice should no longer have a general right of instruction over the administration of the courts or the individual court on administrative matters. The government shall at kgl. in exceptional circumstances, the resolution could instruct the judicial administration and its administration. The Court of Justice Commission proposed that the principle of independent courts should be enshrined in the Constitution. The government has not followed up on this recommendation. A collective committee agrees that this is not necessary. The Committee points out that there is no need to weaken the current perception of the Constitutional and Constitutional traditions of proposing such a change. In addition, a collective committee sees the courts' freedom as judgmental power everything is expressly incorporated in Norwegian law by the human rights law. The Committee agrees with the Government that there is a need for a clearer separation between the courts and the state administration. This change in structure is also seen in the recent past by several other democratic countries. By means of annual budgetary management, the size allows the courts to set their case and framework, and governance beyond the law, regulation or plenary decision-making from government to magnificence. The Board of Directors shall be given a self-responsive responsibility. The Committee's plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, have agreed that the Board should be composed of two representatives of the Eelmenta, as the Stortinget did, and two lawyers from the private or public sector and three judges. These last five are named by the Government. The party of progress and the representative Stang have another proposal, which I assume they do well for themselves. The Court of Justice shall be managed by a Director who shall be responsible for renting work on local, accounting, budget allocation and follow-up. The day-to-day development of the courts should lie with the new court administration. The Committee has pointed out, as a simplification, whether the Training Council for Judges, the Training Council for officials in the Courts, the Selection of Trade Marks and the Committee of Students may merge and work out guidelines from the Court of Justice and report to the Court of Justice. The Committee considers it natural that all of these analogue tasks in relation to access to courts could be dealt with with with with an advantage under a central secretariat such as: the human resources administration of the courts. The Committee agrees that the work on appeal and disciplinary questions for judges is transferred to the Supervisory Committee for Judges. When it comes to the future organisation of IT work in the judicial administration, the Committee has noted that the Ministry will consider establishing a greater degree of cooperation or community within the IT sector in the justice sector. The Committee has pointed out that, in such a large and specialised area of activity as may be dealt with by the courts, an IT competence should be built up close to the administration of the courts. It is important to put new and modern equipment into service and thus get a powerful administration as quickly as possible. It will be able to simplify and standardise work efficiently for the future. It is important to get a qualitative good administration from the new court administration. When localising to Trondheim, all those who work in the Ministry of Justice and the RIFT and who are being reorganised and re-elected must be offered work, for the majority, composed of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, follow up the Government's proposal to place the new court administration in Trondheim. The Progress Party and the representative Stang propose Oslo with the main emphasis on cost and lack of professional environment in Trondheim. The majority also sees it as a stability for the new professional environment that will be established in Trondheim, and that there is a certain distance that will be useful for the future independence of the courts. It doesn't necessarily make everyone in the same professional environment go daily. There is a group committee that is in favour of a new decision-making board for judges, where the competence to name judges is to lie with the King in the Council of State, and that the main principle of such a system is legalised. It should also be the King who, on a free basis, lists all the members of the suspension board. The Board of Governors shall be responsible for the suspension of appointments in matters and institutions beyond a year, finally decided in constitutions for a year or more, and in all institutions given in addition to the permanent siting of judges. The Board of Directors is also responsible for the posts which include the Supreme Court. In the case of the post of Registrar of the Supreme Court, the Government shall be freer, and therefore it is not natural that this post be handled by the Board of Governors. The majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, agree to have seven members, all of whom are lawyers. The Progress Party and the representative Stang believe that one should base the same principle as they aim at the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice. Furthermore, a joint committee points to the principle that there should be no more judges than there are fixed judges in the courts. In order to remedy the lack of judges in some courts, it is legal to limit the system that judges from the first instance are called to the service of law enforcement, and that retired judges may be named as extraordinary layer judges. You must create an appropriate number of layers. The judges have been mentioned in the press for some time, and in order for the courts to have their indisputable position in the future, the committee agrees that the rules of case law are laid down in the law of judges. The Committee agrees that it is necessary to have an independent body for the review and disciplinary arrangements, and endorses the proposal to set up a supervisory committee for judges, but that such bodies as the appointment of judges, the suspension of judges and the removal of criminal charges should still lie with the King in the Council of State. It is a major change that is being made here for the future administration of the country's courts. One assumes that there is a need for 65 job homes and that there is a need for monthly funds in the conversion and start-up phase. I want to sum it up like this: we are facing an exciting development for the courts and the judges with this new structure. Judges will also make many decisions in the future, both in small and large cases. But common to all is that they will be decisive for individuals, without regard to burden, and it will be decisive for society's perception of the work being done. It is decided whether we want a fair judicial system that judges the individual under the current law in the future as well. If we are to maintain our democracy, this is important for the social development we also want for the future, that law and justice apply to small as too much in our society. In order to achieve that goal, we still have to have a time-real administration. The new structure of the judicial administration has strengthened the free position of the courts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e253	Case rapporteur Astrid Marie Nistad has had a thorough review of all the essential points of what is being addressed in this matter now. The Christian People's Party supports all the points that have been made, and I therefore feel no need to extend this debate further than that I would say: we are fully committed to all the majority remarks made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e260	The rapporteur has also made an excellent presentation of the minority's point of view. Together with the independent representative, Jørn Stang, the Progress Party has a few different proposals. It is about the composition of the court administration and some selections where the Progress Party believes that it is more natural for the Supreme Court to appoint members than for the Government to do so. The Progress Party and the independent representative, Jørn Stag, are also of the opinion that the administration of the courts should be located in Oslo – in the capital of the country – instead of in Trondheim. I see the argument that an independent court administration should be located away from the ministry offices. But that doesn't necessarily mean that it's necessary to place the administration in another city. Oslo has the largest legal profession in the country. Here lies the University, and here is also the Supreme Court. I would like to raise the proposals from the Progress Party and the representative of the Jørn Stag who has been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e271	Jan Simonsen has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e274	Ot. pp. No 44 for 2000-2001 represents a milestone for Norwegian courts. The independence of the Court of Justice is significantly strengthened. The Norwegian State is further extended as a legal State. The Court of Justice Commission was divided into the question of the central court administration. In the proposal, the Government has made minor changes to the Commission's majority proposal, which is entirely secondary to what the Centre Party considers to be the main points, namely that: the administration of the courts shall be separated from the Ministry of Justice to which it has its own Administrative Board's command authority lapses; For all the other issues, which are also important, the Court of Justice Commission was essentially united on the appointment of judges, on temporary judges, on the side-acts of judges and on the new appeal and disciplinary arrangements for judges. It is therefore no surprise that the Department has largely followed the Court’s arguments and proposals. It is particularly positive that the Ministry of Justice presents such a principle view of the need for a clearer distinction between the courts and the government offices. The proposition highlights the link between the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary. The justification for greater independence also in particular for administrative support for and visibility of the external independence of the judiciary. The Ministry also rightly points out, in my view, that it may appear outwardly less fortunate that the State represented by the Government's administration is a party to a large number of cases, while the administration is administratively superior to the courts. Similarly, I think it is realistic when the department assumes that its own administration will have increased legitimacy in the courts. It will therefore be able to work with greater understanding and acceptance of the judges, and thus with greater efficiency. I would like to add some arguments that have come more into the background of the proposition, but which I consider essential. In the last few decades, there has been an active expansion of the judiciary in the ministry. This has been valuable, but at the same time gives the ministry a continuous influence on the activities of the courts that were previously foreign. So I want to include the control function. One of the most important tasks of the courts is to verify that government and government offices act legally. Good control requires the most independent control body. The Stortinget has two statutory control bodies vis-à-vis the administration – the Riksrevisionen and the Civil Ombudsman. But it would be strange for Norwegian thinking whether the Riksrevision or the Civil Ombudsman should be administratively directed from a department. The proposal highlights the need for transparency and the trust of the courts in society. In this context, it is natural to call for an indication of the importance of information activities for the new court administration. And then finally. The applicant's rapporteur has made the Committee's proceedings well visible in the setting and has underlined the degree of unanimity that characterises the setting. I would therefore like to commend the ministry's solid craftsmanship expressed in the proposition, and I would also like to commend the thorough work done by the Court of Justice Commission set out in No. 1999:19.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e305	The conclusion first. The left joins the majority on all points. We believe that there has been a thorough evaluation of the considerations to be taken into account, both in the work of the Ministry and of the Committee. I'm not going to elaborate on the different points, except to mention two. I believe that the reasoning made in relation to the Constitution is important, but I share the conclusion drawn both from the Ministry and from the Committee. Then I will go into a relationship that is not directly discussed, and that does not affect the arrangement itself, neither the arrangement with the suspension body nor the system of governance, but it is a matter that I, for my part, will present from the pulpit of the Storting and to the public. It concerns the ability and willingness to recruit judges with such a social and professional breadth that one can then nod and say that the wisdom has been promoted to the homeland. It's not given that it should be like this. All professional groups, even professional groups that bear as great a responsibility as the ones we are talking about here today, and where there are many forward-looking representatives in the state, have a special responsibility when you get that freedom to do – let me call it – the kind of self-justice, self-recruitment and quality assurance that is in that we get a reasonable breadth. I am somewhat familiar with such considerations – not related to the case today, but associated with e.g. the question of the appointment of judges of the Supreme Court – and I think it is important that this is said from the Parliament’s pulpit. Some people would be surprised to say that if you drew a small geographical area in Norway, and I'm not even going to put it on the map, you'd find a annoyingly high concentration of Norwegian judges. I have not found from my experience in life that it has gone beyond intelligence or judgment, nor the ability to maintain professional standards, but it is not in itself an ideal situation. That's why it's very important that you carry what can't be written anywhere, but which I prefer to talk openly about, that when you're recruiting, setting up, you call people who carry the width of this Norwegian society. And not least, it's important that people who are going to be judges carry a social insight that makes you understand the different social conditions in this country, and not just parts of it. Now it is not given that it should be so, but I feel a strong need to underline it. None of what I have now said is at any point contrary to what has been presented by the ministry, and it does not conflict with anything presented by the committee, but I felt a strong need to underline it. For my part, on behalf of the Left Party, I would like to say that, as far as possible with the openness and transparency to which we know it is to be added, we will follow precisely this side of the evolution when we get the system as a majority of the population, with the support of the Left, will vote through here later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e316	SV supports the principle of releasing the central administration from the Ministry of Justice to make the courts more independent than today. This is in line with the desire for the greatest possible distinction between the exercising power and the judging power in relation to the principle of distribution of power. Therefore, the SV supports the majority on all points, including this point. What I would like to comment on is the fact that the Justice Committee is opposed to the principle that the independence of the courts should be incorporated into the Constitution. So there we came to the opposite conclusion of what I understand left has done. The main reason for this seems to be that the Judicial Committee does not wish to legislate only part of the principle of the distribution of power, i.e. the independence of the courts in relation to the legislative and executive powers. One of the guarantees of legal certainty under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights is that the courts shall be independent and impartial. SV is in favour of incorporating the independence of the courts into the Constitution because this communicates the law best. Unwritten constitutional practice and the reference of the Human Rights Act to the European Commission on Human Rights are not communication-friendly enough and thus make the principle unclear, we believe. The most important aspects of the state form must be able to communicate with people most through the Constitution and not through lawyers with constitutional law as particularly impact areas. Now the matter is not dealing with this very thing today, but when the whole Constitution is going to be reviewed, we will ask that the whole principle of power distribution be investigated and expressed in the Constitution. We come back to the principle of the independence of the courts in this work when the matter comes up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e327	There are basically important changes Odelstinget is dealing with today. I am therefore pleased that the proposals put forward by the Government have brought together such broad political support. The most comprehensive and principled proposal in the proposal concerns the future organisation of the administration of national courts. It has been the Government's wish to present a proposal which clearly marks the independence of the courts in society, while at the same time demonstrating that the judicial sector should and must have a close relationship with society in the future. A particularly important keyword is ‘trust’. The government has wanted to clarify a clearer distinction between the courts and the ministries. It is an important principle that there are clear distinctions between our three state powers. The Odelstinget proposal today highlights this distinction. With the proposal, we have also wanted to establish a new and more independent court administration that could have greater legitimacy and effectiveness in relation to the individual court. I believe that a more independent court administration will provide better and more correct governance of the courts in the future. The proposal means that the direct command authority of the Ministry of Justice is currently in the position of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the administrative situation of the individual courts. Of course, the courts remain subject to democratic control. However, general rules shall be laid down, either by law, regulation or through the proposed system, providing centrally defined guidelines for the operation of the Court of Justice through the examination by the Storting of the budgetary proposition promoted by the Government in this area. The proposal must also be seen in the context of the organisation of the other judicial administration. After the establishment of the Police Directorate at the end of the year and after the changes in the administration of the Criminal Service, the courts are today one of the last major public enterprises managed directly from a department. Taking into account the special status and function of the courts and the freedom and autonomy of the courts, it would be a very poor solution to continue a system of continued central administrative governance of the courts directly from the Ministry of Justice. I have noticed that the committee believes it is important to build IT competence near the court administration. I agree that the specialised work of the courts requires an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the needs of the courts for IT and the use of IT. This need must also be defined by the judicial administration in the future. However, it is in everyone's interest that resources should be used in the best possible way, and therefore the Ministry of Justice has asked the directors of the IT units of the police, criminal services and the courts to assess the possibility of pooling selected IT functions in the justice sector. However, I will take the views of the Stortinge into account in the final assessment of the proposal they come up with. The proposal also proposes changes in other areas. A new system is proposed for the appointment of judges and a new appeal and disciplinary system for judges. It is proposed to lay down the rules governing the right of judges to take on side effects and the rules governing the use of interim judges. These, too, are proposals that have brought together broad political support. However, I would like to stress that, in my view, there is now a working order and division of responsibilities in relation to the appointment of judges, which well underlines the autonomy of the courts in society, while maintaining the principle of the appointment of judges by the King of the Council of State. I also think it fits well with the topic raised by the representative of Dørum, namely the need for a broad recruitment of judges. It is an important element, as it is still important that judges be appointed by the King of State Council. It is also important for the public to have confidence in the courts that the proposal for a new system of complaints and disciplinary action and the regulation of the right of judges to carry out side-effects are made. I am convinced that these are important steps to strengthen the transparency of the interaction between the courts and their users. Together with the regulation of the use of temporary judges, it will help to strengthen trust and quality in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e350	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 586]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e364	This case shows that there is still something good coming from the EU. The changes that we are going through here to do in the Automobile Liability Act are primarily to adapt Norwegian law to EEA law. But it's also a most timely and reasonable change. The consequences of our legislation today are unreasonably severe, and in addition, the Supreme Court has stated that the third paragraph of Section 7 of the Automobile Liability Act is contrary to the EEA Motor Insurance Directive. The Ministry of Justice has assessed the rest of the Car Liability Act in addition to the third paragraph of Section 7 and has concluded that a change is also needed in Section 10. Unfortunately, the deaths and injuries in traffic are horrifying, and a large proportion of these injuries are caused by the driver of the car being rushed. There are several ways to prevent drunkenness and other driving in abusing. We have frequent checks, we give fines, we punish those who run in the rush state, we even charge for negligent killing if negligence has been gross enough to do so, and we have, as we have just discussed here today, entered for a lower limit of the pro-mille and also what it is about here, curtailment or no payment of the sum of the insurance if you have run in the rush state. This curtailment is also in line with the general right to compensation for participation, thus reducing the compensation payment. However, the third paragraph of Section 7 of the Automobile Liability Act goes beyond the normal right to compensation and the criteria for participation. This additional requirement of care in the law on car liability shall continue to apply to the bus driver, but for the passengers seated, it shall apply after the new proposal only when he has contributed intentionally or negligently, and not when he can only be irradiated a little in order to have contributed to driving in a rush. The Committee considers that such a distinction in the degree of renunciation between the actual driver and the passenger seated is reasonable, but it is also reasonable that the passenger should receive a curtailment or, if he has contributed to the damage, the payment should be eliminated altogether. We know that, especially in youth environments, passengers can often be responsible for the drunkenness that happens, because they put pressure on the driver. Furthermore, as said, we are amending Section 10 of the Car Liability Act, which will put the injured person in a more favourable position in relation to the insurance payment when the car that has caused the damage has been uninsured. When the person is the owner or driver of the car, no insurance is paid at all today. We now ease this, saying that you should not receive payment only when you have taken the place in the car of your own free will and knew that the car was not legally insured. That means we're equalising the driver, or the owner, with the passenger in an uninsured car according to today's rules. The burden of proof in relation to whether the person who has been injured knew that the car was not legally insured lies with the Transport Insurance Association. The Committee also believes that consumer policy is good. We know that many people today might not put their heads in the wall, but in the insurance companies, when they try to get insurance paid out they think they have a right to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e381	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e395	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e409	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies from each group of main speakers and up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e420	All children are entitled to safe and secure legal frameworks around their growth. This security must cover all, regardless of the family situation in which the children grow up. Children in families with parents living in registered partnerships have the same need for legal security in divorce and death as children in families with two spouses. Children in registered partnerships do not necessarily have this security today, and it is with this in mind that the government of Stoltenberg has made proposals for stebarn adoption in registered partnerships. A fundamental condition for implementing all adoptions is that adoption should be beneficial to the child. It is the child's best to focus. This right is also enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Labour Party believes that the proposal currently under consideration by Odelstinget meets these requirements. The proposals to allow for sterilisation are in the best interests of the child. In Ot.prp. No 71 amendments to the adoption and partnership laws are proposed. The proposed changes involve the granting of access to step-child adoption in registered partnerships, unless the child is adopted by a foreign country that does not allow such adoption. This last reservation, i.e. the attitude towards the child's original homeland, is necessary, because we know today that a number of states do not allow this kind of adoption. Fortunately, the attitude to partnership is constantly changing around the world, and the proposed legislative text meets the need for flexibility in any changes in the attitudes of the countries with which we work. It seems that there has been a misunderstanding in some people regarding the realities of this case. It is not that with the changes now proposed, a child can be adopted against the will of one biological parent. The first paragraph of Section 7 of the Adoption Act clearly states that the person under the age of 18 cannot be adopted without the consent of the parent or parents. This provision is not proposed to change, of course. The aim of the step-child adoption is that children should be guaranteed the right to have two legal parents even in cases where one of the parents is dead, missing or for other reasons cannot or will not be able to participate in the rearing of the child, and to provide legal protection for the child by, for example: deaths in registered partnerships. It is the Workers' Party's view that the child has everything to gain from such a scheme as this one is put up to, among other things. by providing the child with two legal parents and through them a wider and wider network through their families. During the examination of the proposal, the Socialist Left Party has made a proposal that the Workers' Party considers to be a proposal for general adoption rights for homosexuals and lesbians. The Socialist Left Party is in all likelihood left to stand alone on this proposal. In its programme, the Workers' Party has the following wording: ‘The working party will review today’s adoption legislation and practice. One objective of such a review is that form of life and sexual identity shall not in itself constitute an obstacle to... adoption.’;» This means that during the next period the Workers' Party will carry out an investigation which may form the basis for a decision in the Stortinget, in line with the intentions of the SV's proposal. The working party wants more knowledge and a broader review of the case complex before we go into such a decision. I repeat once again: in the work of the Workers' Party on these kinds of questions, we want to make sure that we take decisions based on a solid and nuanced knowledge base. And then we can't vote in favour of SV's proposal, as it is promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e454	It was okay that Frank Willy Larsen, who is the case rapporteur, also presented our proposal. I can do that later. We share that view that everyone should have the right to live up to safe conditions. We also share the perspective that children's best interests should be decisive all the way. We certainly fully agree that the fact that we could not have opened up to the age of sterilization is an expression of a long, long history of discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. This discrimination will continue to exist, even on the basis of what the Stortinget proposes. We support stebarn's adoption, but there is a way to end discrimination, and we also think it is illogical, because: Lonely people can adopt today. So if you're two of the same sex, it's worse than being one of the same sex relative to adopting. Homophiles may become foster parents today, but they can be prevented from adopting even if this is best for the child. In other words, the child will not be able to enjoy the same rights in relation to legal certainty and in relation to inheriting as a child adopted by heterophilic foster parents. I have understood that the Workers' Party signals very outwardly that they are for everyone's right to be assessed as adoption parents, and that is what we are in favour of in our proposal. Then I don't understand why the Workers' Party is voting against what you should think they were in favour of. Or is it the Labour Party that is not mature enough to make such a mature decision today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e465	The representative, Valle, says that she ‘understands and doesn’t understand’ the Workers’ Party’s position, so I’m well allowed to make a poor attempt to clear it up. Ot. pp. No 71, the matter we now have to deal with is a matter of children's rights first and foremost. The general right of adoption for gay and lesbians concerns the rights of adults. We have believed that combining the two issues – on the one hand, the rights of children, which we are dealing with today, and then the right to general adoption that concerns adults – does not benefit any of the parties. It is basically an assessment that I would like the SV to take inward sometimes. We have a clear wording in our party program that we want an evaluation, and I said in my post that the Workers' Party will acquire greater knowledge of general adoption in the next period. The knowledge acquired then will form the basis for any decision that is in line with – I hope – the intentions of today’s SV proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e474	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e477	The Christian People's Party opposes the amendments promoted by the Government of Ot.prp. No 71. The reason for this is not that we believe today's law is good enough and in a good way ensures that children who live with one of their parents and their registered partner. The reason, however, is that the Christian People's Party cannot join the way the Government proposes to safeguard the legal rights of the children concerned. That is why the Christian People's Party has promoted its own proposal. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to take over the whole issue of adoption. Adoption is not an easy matter either for the person who gives up the child or for the person who takes responsibility for a child. Unfortunately, adoption has become too much a fight for adults, a question of adult rights. That angle is why we're taking a lot of distance from it. The focus must always be on the needs and rights of children. Gradually, we know quite a bit about what children need from the necessary framework and from the emotional quality. The proposal in the proposition has a strong focus on legal certainty for children, and that's good. But I would like to stress that stebarn adoptions do not only have a legal side. It is also a major issue of children’s need for identity and experience. The main objection of the Christian People's Party to the Government's proposed legislative changes is that there is too little focus on the emotional side of adoption. There's two things I'll go a little bit deeper into: 1st@item: inlistbox Weaknesses in the step-child adoption2. Alternative ways of securing children legally, economically and emotionally, in the short and long term The adoption law of 1917 opened for sterilisation. It was a very important and necessary arrangement for children born outside of marriage, or experienced divorce. Both parts were very stigmatizing at the time. I'm going to say that the need for stepchild adoption has been reduced – as society has evolved since 1917. It has, for example, for several decades, equality in relation to the rights of children born inside and outside marriage. The development of rights for parents and children over time has made it possible to secure the rights of children without taking the dramatic step of adopting them. I refer here to the rules of the Children's Act on Obstetrics and the rules on wills in the Inheritance Act. Some measures can be taken within today’s legislation — rather than sterilisation — while maintaining a child’s relationship with the biological family. And here I am at the heart of the point: every adoption – and stepchildren’s adoption – is a lifelong and therefore very profound change in the child’s relationship. This applies both to the biological parent of the child, who is no longer a legal parent or a member of the child's family, and to the person who becomes the new parent through adoption, thereby giving the child a whole new family and family. A step-child adoption, like other adoptions, is irrevocable and cannot be reversed afterwards. I have noticed the descriptions by the State Youth and Adoption Office of stebarnadopts who contact the office after they have grown up. It is not uncommon that adults are deeply unhappy about the decision that was made on adoption while they were children themselves. SUAK says that most of these statements are that as children, they were neither able to take inward nor fully understand all the legal and emotional aspects of adoption. In stebarn adoption cases, a careful assessment of the benefits to the child of this particular age must be carried out. While there is no good fasitancy response, an assessment of the child’s best in the short and long term must be made before an adoption authorisation is granted. The Christian People's Party believes that if the proposed amendments to the adoption and partnership laws are adopted and the child will have two parents of the same sex, these assessments will be particularly difficult. I also want to underline the value it represents to have both a mother and a father. To sum up, the Christian People's Party believes that the law can be improved in a number of fields so that the children in question can be guaranteed better legally, but without one going to the step of opening up the extended use of steped child adoption. The Children's Act and the Inheritance Act may, for example: they are being changed in line with today’s needs. One might imagine that a number of persons living in partnership would find it more appropriate both for themselves and the child if the legal and economic relations between him and the child became clearer and better defined in the Children’s Act and the Inheritance Act rather than making sterilisation the only possible way to ensure this. In this way one would avoid breaking legal and family ties, and one would ensure the relationship between the child and the stepparent also in cases where biological mother or father opposes stepchild adoption. This could ensure legal and economic relations between the child and the stepparent in far more cases than the proposed changes to the Partnership Act and the adoption law can. On that basis, I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party has promoted it in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e514	Ola T. Loans have drawn up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e519	One might not think it was necessary for me to take a line on the representative Lånke, since, to put it this way, we stand together in thick and thin in this matter. And I really believe that the representative Lånke made a very interesting and good contribution, which the Progress Party fully supports. What makes me wonder a little about what the Christian People's Party's arguments are about in this case, goes back a little bit in time. I'm going to ask you quite simply and directly. After all, the Christian People's Party was united with the majority when it was opened in order for lonely people to be allowed to adopt. My question becomes simple: what is the difference between the argument that Loan now uses in his post, and the argument that the Christian People's Party had when they were united with the majority of the Stortinge not so long ago and opened up solitude to adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e526	The representative Sandberg says that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party stand together in thick and thin. At least it has to be added ‘in this case’. But that's right, we're together about the very most in this area. Regarding the question he asked, it is clear that this is a slightly different matter. What was adopted on the right to adoption for lonely, gives a very tight opening. It almost just gives in theory an opening for lonely to adopt, as we see it. We've chosen a slightly different angle here, because we see that there are possibilities to take other action. In the case of stebarn adoption, I think, as I also stressed in my post, that this matter has come in a slightly different light over the years. The need for this is less. The value of looking at the emotional and biological bonds has been strengthened. It's not a question of, what to say, solving individual cases, but it's a matter of establishing a law for the future to regulate the relationship for children in such a situation. I think adoption children are particularly vulnerable. They need special protection, and in this context, the Christian People's Party has now chosen to present a proposal in which we want to see opportunities to strengthen the safety and security of children within the biological context. That's why we've gone into this proposal. That there may still be an opening for a step-child adoption in these cases too, I do not rule out, but in this context we have chosen to focus on the possibilities of giving a better and more holistic grip legally in the case of step-child adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e536	The representative Lånker said, if I don't remember completely wrong, we didn't have to confuse adults' rights and children's rights. Let's make it clear that for all of us, whether it's about going in for a step-by-step adoption or going in to expand the rights, it has to be the children's best that's guiding all the way. But let me also say that the attitudes that are signalled to adults in this context will also be attitudes that are signalled to children, and that affect children and young people who prove to have a gay or lesbian lay. I'm actually going to praise the Christian People's Party for agreeing to the sole right to be assessed as adoption parents. I also want to commend the Christian People's Party for having been of great help in getting the big message that we are going to deal with on Thursday. However, the representative does not see Lånkene's inconsistency: we are thus opening up the same right to be judged as adoption parents. A lonely adopts a child. Then it turns out that he or she is gay or lesbian and gets a partner. How will the Christian People's Party stand in such a case? Wouldn't it be for the child's best that it could then be adopted by the stepparent? Can the representative Lånke also comment on the following line of thought: One parent is good. Two parents of the same sex as the one that's good are not good. It's worse than one parent. It's the logic if you don't open up gay and lesbians to be evaluated in the same line of loneliness. I would like a little answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e545	I said in my post that I think the best thing for the child is that it has both a mother and a father. I have not said that a gay or lesbian is inappropriate as a caregiver. I think gay and lesbians can be good caregivers. I don't think it has anything to do with sexual orientation. Let it just be fixed! What is our starting point here is that we want to ensure a law that not only preserves the legal and economic aspects of an adoption relationship but also draws the biological bonds. Because I think you've become more aware of those tapes lately than you've been before. And then we think it's wrong to go the opposite way. I have not excluded the possibility that a gay or lesbian in a registered partnership can be evaluated – I have not said that – but we are talking about very few adoptive children. According to the Storing message that we are going to process on Thursday, it was, as far as I can remember, registered approx. 34 children with parents in registered partnerships. I don't know how many of the people who could be involved in the stebarn adoption, but we're talking about very few. So we do not establish a law after that, but we believe that in each case we have to decide who might be most suitable to take care of a child who had to lose everyone and who is in such a situation. What we need then is to find someone who, in a vulnerable situation, can replace an adopted child's lost home. And then we think we have to look at the law. Then it's irrelevant to answer the question that Ågot Valle finally asked, because we want to look at the biological bonds first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e554	Let me start by saying that it is not a homosexual we treat today – for those who had to believe it – we treat a law that assumes that there are a number of children living with two parents of the same sex. It's a reality that's there. And then we discuss a few extremely few cases in which one of the biological or the legitimate, legal, one of the parents goes away, and on which a child is then to have the right to keep his or her stable surroundings. That is what we are discussing today. So it's not a gay thing, as it's often referred to as. There's one thing that's just starting from the best of children, that is. that children should have a right to grow up in the environment that is safest and most stable for a child. That's what this is about. Therefore, I agree with the representative Sandberg that it was an interesting post that the representative Lånke made, but if it was as good as he said, I am more uncertain about. For the question is, what will the representative Lånke do with the few children who end up in this situation, and where it is obvious to the child's best that it should be in the home in which it has grown up? That's the question. Does the representative Lånke think it would be right to take a child away from a safe and stable home, a home where the child wants to be, and where does it have the best opportunity to have a good upbringing? Does the representative Lånke mean this? That's my first question. The second question, which I think is becoming more serious, and which I now think requires an answer, is: In my post, the representative also leaned on the emotional aspects it is for a child to grow up in such a home. Will the representative Lånk clarify what emotional aspects of growing up in such a home that he is aiming for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e563	I am pleased with the introduction by the representative Hornslien, because I think he fixed something that we share. That's the consideration of the child's best, and that this is not a gay thing. In fact, I fully agree with that. I am also pleased that he said that he thought it was an interesting post. That he found it well, I guess I wouldn't have waited, so that's how I accept it. But he asked me two questions. What will I do in the few cases it's about? Yes, I am not sure if it is up to me to decide. I have answered that question already in my previous post, that this is a matter that others have to consider on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, there may be solutions outside the registered home. In some cases, it might be the only option, and then we'll probably accept a star child adoption. There is no mention here of registered partnership. I think I'll say the same thing also about a heterophilic relationship if there are biological bands that it's important to connect to. When it comes to emotional aspects, it's clear that it's a difficult question. There is something that needs to be seen in a long-term perspective. When we listen to SUAK's report on how they experience adults who have been adopted and who tell us what they have experienced and about the possible mistakes that have been made early in these people's lives, it's clear that there's no simple question. I think that emotional ties exist in several directions here, and that the child's own vote or vision must also be listened to. Here, I don't think it's right for a politician on the Stockholm Chair to give a recipe for what will be best in individual cases. What we want to establish is that the child should have a mother and a father, and that there are biological ties that we don't have to jump over, and that we have to try to ensure that through the law that we are now going to try to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e577	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e580	The right supports the proposal to grant access to sterilisation in registered partnerships. The rapporteur, Frank Willy Larsen, made a good contribution where he went through the main reasons, and I will go quite quickly through some of our comments. The proposal is based on the current provision that one partner may, with the consent of the other, adopt his or her child. However, it is clarified that this does not apply to children who are adopted from a foreign country that does not allow such adoption. To the right, as it seems to most people, it's important that the consideration of the children is first. For example, when a biological mother who lives in a registered partnership has children with an unknown father, and the child grows up with the mother and the partner, it would be quite natural if mother dies, that the partner is given the opportunity to adopt the child. I can't understand the representative Borrowing the mention of the emotional and complications associated with this when in most cases we're talking about an unknown, for example. a sperm donor or an unknown father. In this case, it would be quite unnatural not to go in for adoption. It is important to stress that the purpose of the sterilisation option is to ensure that children are entitled to have two legal parents even in cases where one of the parents is dead, missing or for other reasons cannot or will not be able to participate in the rearing of the child. The right is of the opinion that this fundamental right must also apply to children in registered partnerships, and therefore supports the Government’s proposal to amend the law. We underline the importance of the need for international adoption work to be based on mutual respect for the laws of each country, and support in this respect that the law provides for an exemption for step-child adoption in the case of foreign-adopted children who come from a country of origin that does not allow a subsequent step-child adoption in a registered partnership. The proposed legislative text provides sufficient flexibility in relation to the ever-changing nature of attitudes related to the adoption of step-by-step and registered partnerships. During the examination of the case, many people have come to the conclusion that different parts of the adoption law should be taken into account, which was also the subject of Mr Lånke's intervention, linked to the general adoption of a step-child. I am of the opinion that it must be natural to go through the adoption law on a general basis and not to address issues that are not related to ste children's adoptions for those who live in registered partnerships by this crossroads. Right will support the Government's legislative proposal. We are concerned that this is now being done in a way that makes the steped child adoption considered natural in cases where one partner goes away. Where the child has grown up in a home with two parents of the same sex, it would be totally unnatural to go against the possibility of adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e597	No one's ever asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e600	Ot. pp. No 71 is about adoption in registered partnerships. The proposal is to introduce a new provision in the adoption law to allow one partner in a registered partnership, with the consent of the other, to adopt its child. A new provision, Section 5(a), is proposed in the adoption law that will regulate access to the sterilisation option both in marriage and in registered partnerships. The proposal is based on the current provision that one spouse, with the consent of the other, may adopt his or her child. Access to sterilisation in registered partnerships is proposed for both parents’ biological children and adopted children, unless adopted by a foreign country that does not allow such adoption. The Progress Party is very sceptical about the legislative proposal in which one partner is given the opportunity to adopt the other’s children in the same way as for persons who have made marriages under the marriage law. The Progress Party will assume that there will be relatively few cases where sterilisation in the context of partnership is relevant. At least today the question is of greater principle than it is of practical importance. A main motive for the law of partnership has been to equalise homosexuals and heterophiles with regard to legal rights and obligations of marriage. However, in the case of adoption, the child must be given the highest consideration. In case of sterilisation, legal ties to the original genus will be lost. The child will come in some special situation that it gets two parents of the same sex. The progressing party sees that this can create emotional reactions in the child and act as a stranger to outsiders. It's important that you pay attention to this. The Progress Party notes that it is proposed that access to the model child adoption in partnership should not apply to children who have been adopted from abroad. We agree that this can be contrary to morals and legal beliefs of individual donor countries. The point of progress is of the opinion that it would normally be in the best interests of the child's development to grow up with both a mother and a father. Of course, gay/lesbian partnerships can also be excellent caregivers and parents. However, if both parents are of the same sex, a child’s growth situation lacks something. That children with single parents do not have parents of both sexes to deal with, and that this deficiency can be compensated in different ways, including in partnership, does not change the principle of this point of view. The Progress Party considers that adoption should therefore be the normal practice for the child to be adopted to have the best possible caregivers of both sexes for parents. However, there may be cases where a stepchild adoption for couples living in partnership can be a solution. Such a case may be where the only parent of the child is dead or unknown, and consideration of the child's best advocates for such a solution. Here we're moving into an area that's very difficult. The essential must and must be a solution for the child. Everything else is irrelevant. In addition, for a child who grows up with a parent living in partnership, the second biological parent will represent the gender lacking in the child’s family situation, and this parent could be of particular importance to the child. An adoption means that the child not only loses his/her inheritance after the biological parent and his/her family and ceases to be responsible for the care of that parent, but the parent also loses the right to be associated with the child. The Progress Party will vote against the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e626	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e629	It's always focused on what's best for the child from this pulpit. I do not understand what is so difficult about this matter. What makes this matter so difficult for Bredvold if it is the child's best that underlies his assessments? If there is an assessment that suggests that this is right to do for the child's best, what is it that makes the matter so difficult, other than a problematization around conditions that have an external character simply, that you are afraid of reactions. For example, you write. in the notes to the Contracting Party: ‘In step-child adoption, legal ties with the original genus will be lost. The child will come in some special situation that it will have two parents of the same sex." What we're talking about here is not that the child will come into such a situation. It's already in such a situation. Ergo is kind of falling the argument of the Progress Party something out of reality already there. But then you continue the comment by writing the following: ‘These members see that this can create emotional reactions in the child and act as a stranger to outsiders. It is important for one to be aware of this.» That's why I kind of challenge the opponents of this change a little bit. Because now we're going to have to get an answer to what these sentences really mean. What are the emotional reactions we're talking about here? Is it prejudice that we have as our foremost goal from this pulpit and in this room to counteract, one is afraid of? Is that what you're afraid of? Or what is contained in this concept of ‘emotional reactions’ and fear of the outside? So I actually don't accept what has been said from here, that it's impossible to say anything about, because as long as you write this in the form of a note, you also have to be able to justify why you write it. What are the emotional consequences of this? In fact, I think we have a claim to know. I also think it is important to comment on this that, if this is for the best of the child, why will it not be possible to make provision for legislation that ensures the child's very best?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e650	I thank you for the line. It sounds a bit strange, because the representative Hornslien also had a line earlier today in the same case, when he said that this should not be a homodebat, but I almost think that it is what is being added up to now. For the Advancement Party, it is important here, and the only important thing, is the rights of the child. In the situation we are unfortunately living today, often a lack of identity is one of the major problems. The children are torn from one extreme to the other. Since what we look at as the most natural with safe and stable parents, is a mother and a father, we think it's best the way it is. We haven't said that not two of the same sex in a relationship can be good caregivers and can be good parents, but we see it as most natural that there is a mother and a father present where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e657	I have also noticed that the Progress Party of the representative, Mr Bredvold, stresses that the best interests of the child make the Progress Party land on the position being taken in this matter. I have also, of course, noted the wordings used by the Progress Party in the matter, such as that it is ‘disreputable to grant adoption to partners of the same sex’. It creates «feeling reactions» and it may seem «foreign» to others, and that the child will be in a «some particular situation» that it will have two parents of the same sex. Then my question becomes to the representative of Bredvold: Does the Progress Party not see that the attitudes of the Progress Party repeatedly from this pulpit are adding to the burden of the children who already live in families where parents of the same sex are? It seems that the Progress Party does not take inward that that is what is reality, and that is the reality to which this ousting proposition is trying to relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e666	Once again, I want to talk about the rights of the children, the best of the children. And that's two things: it's the best of the kids, and it's the best of the adults. In this case, the best thing for kids is to talk about, and their feelings. And we might have gotten into a slightly special situation. Maybe we have two realities, two real worlds we live in. Perhaps the Workers' Party has its view of the world of reality and we have ours. We want what we have to pass. We want a family pattern like we have today, with a mother and a father, in the situations that are possible. The Progress Party continues its family policy in this matter, as we do in other matters, and I just want to mention that we were against the Partnership Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e673	I have to say, the more answers we get, the more uncertain I am about what minority means in this case. For the representative of Bredvold said in the previous line, that we think it's better it's going to be the way it is. Yes, as it is, a child lives with his father and father his partner or mother and mother his partner, and it's about securing this for the future. If the person who is a biological father or a mother and does not live with the child is in agreement with it, is not present or is dead, then it will be relevant. I want to ask you a very specific example, because I don't understand. We must either talk by each other, or there is something progressing and Christian People's Party that they don't say. I get a little feeling that 'we know that, but we don't like it' in this argument. For example, Ole cages with father and partner. Mother of Ole is dead, biological father is sick, and father and father's partners want to ensure that Ole shall be bowed in this world even if father should get sicker and possibly die, to easily secure the exact stability ahead of Ole. And to complicate it all, I can even say that the mother's family has good contact with Ole, and they're very positive about this. So it's a way to secure the child's duty and right to be bowed to the person who has acted as a biological parent with father. How would the Progress Party address such a situation? Would you say no, because it's all of a sudden wrong? So one gives a signal to all the kids who live with gay parents that this is wrong, it's so stressful that we won't accept it officially. We can look through our fingers with it if it's informal, but we don't want to formalize it and thus secure the situation for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e684	The representative Starrfelt took one example, but it's not a typical example, it's an exception either. As mentioned earlier in the hall, there were perhaps 34-35 children living in such a situation. How many of these are relevant to this type of adoption, we don't know. That makes it difficult. And it must be wrong to change a law because of exceptional situations. The Progress Party wants a general policy and a general law that protects all children in any case. This builds, among other things: to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and Human Rights. We do not want to ‘adopt’ the Labour Party's family policy, which is involved in moving borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e693	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e696	Let me first refer to the rapporteur's statement, which I think was a good one. And then I'll comment a little bit on what Hornslien has said here today. Hornslien asserts that this is a child's cause and not a homosexual thing. I agree. But then ask Hornslien, why is that difficult? And I want to answer that a little bit, because I think this is a difficult matter even though I have come to support SV's proposals. The issue we are discussing today is, of course, demanding because it touches on deep feelings within us, it concerns values and attitudes and changes in such attitudes over the past ten years. It is demanding because it challenges our respect for the integrity of others and the recognition of the ability of all people to be themselves. And last, but not least, it's demanding because it's children – young, vulnerable and caring children that we'll do the best for. We can't do any wrong in these cases; it's too big and too important for that. Let me establish, like the others here, that the child's best and the child's needs are the starting point, and are crucial in these matters. That's why no one has the right to adopt, but we're discussing who should have the opportunity to be considered adoption parents. All adoptions must be individual. Because the best thing for the child is the starting point, you might think that the best thing is that there are two legal parents, one mother and one father. Then everyone would be happy and satisfied. If life was that simple! But life is not that simple. Many children today live with a parent. Many children experience living with more families and in different circumstances. And then we have children who live with a mother or a father who is gay, and then the situation that we're discussing today comes up. So it's the way with attitudes to homophilis that it's changed a lot over time -- lately, very briefly, this has changed. And that's very good. So maybe you could say like the Workers' Party, let's stop with the Stebarn adoption. It's reasonably accepted among people. The problems are not, I think, the small family with two parents of the same sex and a child, because they will be able to have it well in a stable, caring and loving relationship. The problem is all of us around. And we can't ignore that. That's why I think there won't be so many cases of sterilization or adoption for homosexuals, which in my view should be considered adoption parents in line with heterophiles, because I don't think care depends on sexual orientation. You might say, like the Workers' Party, let's take more time, get more knowledge of the step-children's adoption before maybe we go on. There's a lot of sense in spending more time. At the same time, I think that sometimes you actually have to put your foot down and say: I mean it's going to be wrong against individuals, against some children, against some foster parents even, who may have taken responsibility for a vulnerable child who needs special measures, who has social problems. There are no foster parents or adoption parents in line to care for children with special needs. Maybe there's an aunt, one who lives in a partnership, who takes care of the boy, stands up all the time, year after year, and so the community says: you're going to be foster parents because we need their efforts, but you can never become adoption parents. I think it's wrong. I think it's right for us to say: the best thing for the child is what decides, and then we get the law so that in those cases where it's best for the child that these two can adopt, we say yes to it. We'll open it up. Not because there are many cases, because I don't think so, but because it's actually right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e719	I have written in quite a few of the reflections that the representative of Lahnstein had, and I agree that this is a difficult matter. But that's exactly why it has to be allowed to ask a little bit about what's hard when you're so afraid to open up for adoption for the few that it's up to. For they are about security and justice. Whether it's 34 or 430 of them, I think I'm completely uninteresting. For those who are in debt, it will mean something. So Anne Enger Lahnstein says that it can be right to stop, like the Labour Party. No, the Labour Party doesn't stop, but we're taking this case now, and then we've said we should sort things out. In fact, we have a relatively binding programme formulation when it comes to this, which we will spend the next period of time to find out more. These are sensitive questions, where there is a balance between influencing the grips and not provoking them so strongly that one gets counter-reactions. There has been a great deal of positive in attitudes towards homosexuals in recent years. I'm very happy about that. We have to make sure that we don't go so fast that a number of people protest and oppose it. But I think this will go on, and that in the next turn it will open up opportunities for more general rights to be judged as adoption parents. I also see a logical relationship between it and the right to adoption for the single. I'm interested in listening to what the Center Party actually means. The centre party has created an application. In my district, quite a lot of people report out of the Central Party because they don't like these adoption decisions, and it's said from our local representatives that no, they're not for this – then I don't think that the representative of Lahnstein and the centre party people in the hall will do today, because then the previous program broke. But can the voters expect the Centre Party to collect in favour of the adoption assessment of homofiles for the next major period?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e728	Now there'll be a large majority in Odelstinget today for stebarn adoption. The batch centre has an application specified in the configuration for the next period. I have also written in the setting that the principle of the best interests of the child is the starting point for the assessment of all those who want adoption, that I cannot see that sexual orientation itself is an obstacle to such an assessment, and refers to the program where it is called ‘that homofiles should have the opportunity to adopt under the same conditions as heterofile’. Now there are more in the Central Party's big group and of our candidates who have reserved themselves against this. Of course, it's being accepted in the Center Party. It is also the case that this proposal that is being promoted by SV today, but sent to Stortinget, I expect, you will be able to relate to. It's clear that you're going to make a choice on this, but it's also opening up for reservations. It's also true that many of us view this as a matter of conscience. In this case, I don't think anyone will be able to bend to a program if you, for example. do not agree. Otherwise, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt was in the midst of some reflections about this that you should not go too fast. It's been my dilemma, too, because I've encountered reactions out there that make me pretty sure of what is the answer to Hornslien's question: what is difficult? Yes, they are people's views on this. And a child who grows up in an environment and meets this, doesn't get it easy. It may not be the best of the child. But there are cases where we have to go ahead. I am also of those who believe that you cannot accept injustice because it is to mature all the way. I want to quote from Bishop Gunnar Stålsett's wedding address. He said we should not be too patient on behalf of those who suffer wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e740	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e744	Let me first say that we're all talking about the best of children, but it's also clear that this is a gay thing. The absence of daily discrimination is a fundamental human right. Being accepted regardless of sexual orientation is related to the fact that all people are equally worth it. From this angle of imagination that all people are equally worth, SV suggests that lesbians and gays should be given the right to be assessed as adoption parents on the same line as single and heterophiles. It is positive that the Government wants to open up the possibility for children of lesbians and gays to be guaranteed a continued link to their breeding environment through a sterilisation option. But accepting a stepchild's adoption is, in my opinion, just a small step on the way to accepting lesbians and gays as whole people, in line with heterophilic couples who want to adopt a child. The government's proposal is inconsistent because it is already possible to adopt unanimity. After pressure from both the Workers' Party and SV, it has become a reality. In other words, one parent is good for children, but two parents of the same sex are wrong – it's worse than one. This is the logic if the Storting continues to make it possible to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation. And further, the gays and lesbians who are recognized as foster parents are not given the opportunity to adopt if this is the best of the child. What does that mean? Well, that means these children are deprived of the possibility of the same legal certainty and inheritance rights that heterophilic foster parents can offer if foster parents adopt the children. I want to refer here to Anne Enger Lahnstein's reasoning around just this. Both on the basis of the principle of equality and the best interests of children, SV believes that it must be opened in order for lesbians and gays to be able to be assessed on the same line with heterophilic couples in terms of adoption – and this is what we have thought for a long time. I want to stress that no one has the right to adopt children. Being responsible for a child through adoption is no one's right, but there is no logical reason why lesbians and gays should be excluded from an assessment of the ability to assume such responsibilities in the same way as heterosexual couples. So there are regulations and guidelines on the adoption law and the individual's suitability as adoptive parents in the given situation that are crucial, not what sexual orientation they have. The research so far shows that lesbians and gays have the same care capacity as heterophiles. There's no reason to think that they don't have feelings for the extra strain of adopting a child with an already complicated background. I'm not naive. Still, there are many lesbians and homosexuals who experience a society characterized by strong homophobic attitudes. These attitudes towards a human being can be so devastating that it can be an additional burden for a child to be adopted into this environment. It is precisely the prejudice that overrides the view of human qualities. So I want to ask the question, who's wrong? Who is wrong that a child under given conditions cannot grow up with safe adults? Is it the fault of the lesbians and gays, is it the child's fault, is it the fault of the Norwegian Church, or is it our politicians' fault? The answer is not unambiguous, and the distribution of blame is uninteresting. What's interesting is what society signals with prejudices, and what we do with them. A society where people are excluded by the good community because it's the prejudices to determine is a society I wouldn't be proud of. We need a society that is more tolerant of freedom to be different, and we also need to go along with that in this debate. I would like to point out that when adopted, it is important to involve the possible extra load it may not be growing up in a nuclear family consisting of two of the opposite sex. But this should not alone exclude gay couples from being considered suitable adoptive parents. The research has found no difference in the care of heterophiles and homophiles, whether they are lonely or they live in obligatory living. These include: confirmed by a parliamentary inquiry in Sweden. The majority of this investigation proposes to equate heterophiles and homofiles with regard to access to be assessed as adoptive parents. So here's a knowledge base to build on. I want to work actively on behalf of SV for a society that takes collective responsibility and corrects the general condemnation and discrimination lesbian and gay experiences today. I will also do that in this case, and therefore, based on what is best for children, but also to go ahead in working for a more tolerant society, I am promoting the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e759	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e764	I have a self-imposed moderation in relation to taking a line in this debate, but in the case of the representative Ågot Valle, I cannot fail. The representative Hornslien said earlier in a reply that this is not a gay thing, this is a child's affair. SV and Ågot Valle say it's a gay thing. This is an adult matter. And is that where the big difference goes in this debate? I've gone through all the comments on SV that they're alone about, and as far as I can see, they're all about adults' rights from end to end. No one should be discriminated against. The research shows that lesbians and gays have the same care ability – I have also stressed that, and that's okay. Homofiles shall not be excluded when it is considered as suitable adoptive parents. The weight and weight of Agot Valle's posts were dedicated to adults' rights. So it ends with a proposal that you want to legislate on the right to be evaluated. What goes like a red thread through SV's argument is adults' rights in terms of adoption. It's serious. I have to ask the representative Ågot Valle and SV: what is the most important thing in a case like this? Where is the focus? No one can doubt that for the Socialist Left, the focus is on equality and non-discrimination for adults, and that is what is paramount, not the best of children – the weak parties. I would ask the representative, Mr Valle, to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e775	When I said this is also a gay thing, it's because this is a case on the basis of the prejudices that this society has long had against gay and lesbians. But I have throughout my article pointed out that the starting point must be the best of the children. And those are the attitudes that we're signalling to gay and lesbians who can be parents, who also want to do something with children, not only children who are heterophilic, but also children who are gay. Children are not born with prejudices. We adults are giving them the prejudices through our actions, through the thoughts we have, through the attitudes we convey. It's clear – and I also said that – it can be a burden for a child to grow up in a gay environment together with gay and lesbian parents, and it has to be assessed. But that's the right to be judged, not the right to adopt, but the right to be judged as we always assert. Let's take an example -- we think of the best of children: a heterophilic couple, a nuclear family, have children. The mother in this relationship has a lesbian sister who lives with a partner. Then what can happen happens happens, that the couple are exposed to an accident and die. In this context, it may well be the best of the child that it is the lesbian aunt and her partner who takes care of this child. We'll be able to do that. It's not possible today, but we'll be able to do that based on what's best for children. And then I will work incessantly for a society with tolerance and the ability to be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e786	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e789	I am also of the representatives who have to say that I have found this question and the matter that has been here difficult. I don't want to say for that reason that it's for everyone, but that's what it's been for me. And I also think that's how there's been too many in my party. But we – I think we will say – felt that, in relation to children's rights, we crossed a limit on the day we had to decide on the exclusive right to adoption. Then we felt that because of – let's say so – the complexity of life that we then got into, that we had to take a stand for, we crossed a line. I also see it that in the case of stebarn adoption, we are in a situation that, for me, may be a little different from the one described in the previous article. There are two parties, one of them dies, the other of the parties has a sexual orientation that is such that you find one of the same sex to live with. In such a situation, would you not be able to judge from the best of the child that adoption was natural? So we know, as several representatives have been involved, that the way Norway is composed, as we are all as people, the external conditions won't be the same everywhere in this country. That's why an adoption never adds to anything other than the best of the child, does not add to adults' rights, but assumes what benefits the child. But in that process, based on the way life is, and the way people live together, are decent and loyal to each other and really happy with each other, also be able to take inward the relationship that lies in the bill we are dealing with today. I am also pleased that, when dealing with the matter – and this is also the case in the proposal – it is taken into account that we cannot act in such a way towards other countries that allow adoption to Norway, that we should then review it afterwards. We have to do what the majority here does, and say that it's a relationship that goes further on the road. Then there's been a debate about you going a step further, as it says, by proposing a general access for people, regardless of sexual orientation, to be considered adoptive parents. For the Left, there is one issue to which there are two comments. One is the contract we have with our voters. For this period we are in the situation that we have behaved towards our voters so that, naturally, as we have conducted the debate in our party and in full transparency, we can vote in favour of ste children's adoption. But we have a program for the next period that opens up for consideration by adoption regardless of marital status and sexual orientation. It's a program formulation that none of our first candidates have reserved for, but it's a matter with which we have to meet the voters when it comes to the selection of the harvest. And I feel that in practice we are in many ways close to the attitudes and intentions expressed in the case by the Workers' Party. We may have drawn the conclusion, but I'm not going to make any other point of that than to describe it that way. That's why it's natural for us today for this reason, but also for a reason to stop by voting for the stebarn adoption, and that's why it's time to go into the second adoption relationship, and we're actually well served that it gets our own preparation, that it gets our own review, so that we get on the table, as more representatives have now described here by their posts, the different parts of life that we have to take with us when we're going to be legislators and pass laws, and also bring with us the process that precedes legislation where the public is involved in the discussion that's going on. Because it is through such public debates, although they may be both easy for some and painful and considerate of others, that we all have to weigh and assess where we stand. On this basis, the Left vote in favour of the proposal on the adoption of the sterilisation option. We will not vote in favour of the proposal that will be sent later to Stortinget, which is promoted by SV, because we feel that it is not right, as I have now explained. Personally, I have gone a rather long way in this matter, and I had hardly imagined myself a five-six years ago that I would stand on the Great Britain's pulpit and make a post where I went in for stebarn adoption. But there is a meeting with people around me who have made such an impression that I, for my part – and there are probably others also in my own party, and that is the end of the debate in the party – have to take that part of reality with me, and that leads to the political conclusion that leads to our vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e806	After this debate, I am a little tempted to say, how much easier it would have been if we had lived in a society where everyone was much more alike! But I don't know if it had become a richer society. In this case, the children's best interests have been the focus. Adoption is not about adults' rights and demands, but about what's best for our children. For me, it has been essential to ensure that children living in families consisting of registered partners and one's children, the same secure legal framework as children in families consisting of spouses and one's children. For me, this is not about discriminating the children who currently live with gay couples. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to amend the adoption law and the Partnership Act in order to allow one partner in a registered partnership to adopt the other's child if the general conditions of the adoption law exist. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen see that families consisting of registered partners and one's children may also need a safer legal framework, but that they disagree with the way the Government proposes to safeguard the legal and economic rights of the children concerned. We have been working on the proposal to open up step-child adoption in registered partnerships and have also evaluated schemes other than those we already have today to secure the step-child, whether the step-parent is the parent's spouse or registered partner. However, I believe that the proposal for a step-child adoption is a far simpler and better legal solution than changing the child law so that the child and the step-parent have a different legal relationship to what is possible under current legislation. The most important thing for me is that the proposal implies that children in registered partnerships are given the same possibility of full legal protection in relation to the stepparent that children in marriage have had for several decades. The proposal does not, as is known, include any change to the conditions for sterilisation adoption in relation to the applicable law, except for this extension with regard to who can apply for sterilisation. The general conditions of the adoption law, inter alia: the adoption must be in the best interests of the child and the necessary consents and statements must, of course, be met. In the end, I would like to say that it is completely wrong for me to assume that changing a law would be wrong. In relation to a few cases or exceptional situations, I am actually willing to change the law if it can help to ensure a better daily life for some children in Norway. I think in this debate we must have the ability to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. I think that the discussion about stebarn adoption and about a general adoption right for gays would have been completely different if we, as political leaders and representatives of our national assembly today, had shown greater legitimacy for the difference and for the individuals who are different from the vast majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e826	I join until the last time the Council of State said. I wonder if she also agrees that this case is based on the prejudices that society has had against homosexuals and lesbians. In the VG Sunday, the Council of State stands out as the one who has fought for the adoption of gay and lesbian children. I have many times registered that she has fought for this, and that is good. She says it's about lovingness and being a good parent. I'll go back two years. Then SV and the Workers' Party agreed on a proposal in Innst. O. No 53 for 1998-99. The proposal included: as follows: ‘The main objective must be to strengthen the ability of children to grow safely and effectively. Form of life and sexual identity shall not in itself prevent seeking and being considered as adoptive parents.’;» The case-rapporteur at the time was Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. So what's happened since then? Well, the Grandfather's representative has become the Council of State, and she has had full opportunity to make proposals in line with this. So she's promoting a proposal for a step-children's adoption. I'm going to say that this is an inconsistency in relation to, for example, foster parents, who take on the great responsibility – as Anne Enger Lahnstein said – and who need to secure the child’s inheritance and legal certainty. What does the Council of State really mean? Some have said here that you need more knowledge. I would then like to mention a parliamentary inquiry carried out in Sweden – and Sweden and Norway are not different – where the majority concluded that it is now right to open up a general assessment. Are there any obstacles in the government councils? Or are they in the Workers' Party? Who is it that is not yet mature to make this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e840	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the impatience shown by both the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein and the representative Ågot Valle in this matter. I believe that this is also a little bit about what kind of attitudes we can express. I have repeatedly said that I do not find good arguments against homophiles being considered adoption parents. It should not be the sexual orientation, but the caring ability, which should be crucial for the kind of care we can give a child. But then I recognize that part of the reality is also that gay people do not live in municipality-Norway. The situation is that they're being pressured to move to our big urban communities. Homofiles that stand out in our small communities are viewed as kind of originals. I also believe that if we had made a proposal today without an investigation into the Storting, this big deal would not have come to pass. I am also aware in the government that a case should be submitted to the Stortinget, it should also have a good basic documentation. We heard that from the representative Odd Einar Dørum who has been in government; one has to prepare a case before it is presented to the Stortinget. And then I can live with the fact that I have not managed to get any longer in my work. But I actually believe that this government has done more for homosexuals in our society than any other government. We have received tremendous positive feedback on the stepedia adoption, not least in relation to the bigotry message to be debated here in Stortinget on Thursday. Therefore, we must now have the ambition to give greater legitimacy to homosexuals in our society, so that they can stand up with their sexuality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e851	My reply to the Council of State goes to SUAK and their considerations, especially what they said on 28 February 2001. SUAK is the State Youth and Adoption Office. They state that stebarn adoptions have not only legal aspects, but also largely about children’s need for identity and identity issues. They think it's so important to focus on the emotional side of adoption, and we all agree. But then they say that on a general basis, there is a need for a restriction on access to stebarn adoption in relation to today's practice, and not an extension, as this is added up to. Then my question becomes: How much has the Council of State put in these comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e859	I have noticed the views of SUAK, and it will of course be interesting in the further debate to look at the material on which SUAK has based its opinions. I have noticed that no questions have been raised about this from the committee. But then SUAK is an external agency, which also has to deal with the decisions and decisions taken by the Storting, and when a majority of the Storing is in favour of stebarn adoption, it would be right for SUAK to comply with those provisions, make its judgements in line with what the Storing has said, and of course also fits their role. That's what I'm sure SUAK will do. But I can promise you one thing, and that's that we're going to ask you to look at the basic material that SUAK has on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e864	I'm going to give praise to the Council of State for the commitment she shows in this matter, and I don't at all condone the importance it has that Government is now presenting the matter of ste child adoption, which has really been overmature for quite a long time. It has been a long time since the order for the stebarn adoption was given to the Government – not this government, but the previous one. So the Council of State says that no government has done more in terms of gay and lesbian lifestyle than this government. Yes, the government has signalled an open position, and the government has provided the big message, but I would like to remind you that the proposal for the big message was submitted, and it was almost pushed forward by the SV and the Right together. There was absolutely no goodwill from the Workers' Party at the time to want to prepare a big message. But honor be the Government for it being presented now, and it has many important perspectives in it. The proposal we have put forward is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure lesbian and gay rights to be considered adoption parents.’ So there is no change in the law to be passed overnight. All legislative changes require a thorough preparation of the case. All legislative changes are also required to be brought to the attention of the public. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State agree that this order should have been sent to the Government now, so that the Government can start this work? There's no doubt in my mind that it was this council that really wanted the Storting to have decided, so I want the Council of State whispering its representatives here in the ear that it's really wise to send this order to the Government now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e878	I know that we have different roles to play when we're in opposition and in position. The representative says that the time is overdue, and that this has been called for a long time. Yeah, that's a good idea. But my starting point is that this government delivers concrete results in a timely manner in the area by area. And then a good person can put on an ideological hat here today or become very principled. But the point is that we've been in government a little over a year, and we've actually put forward a proposal that will secure children living in gay relationships, and we've done a thorough work on a big message that will have a big impact on homosexuals in Norway. We have also shown courage – and we have been criticized for it – and we have done just that to show that this is about human dignity and not that we are playing a game in relation to these groups. So I notice what the representative Ågot Valle says about the order, and I'm going to take it further. But I can say one thing; that the national meeting in the Workers' Party has decided its things, as the case-rapporteur has carefully explained, and I see no reason to comment on anything more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e887	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e890	It was in particular the post to Anne Enger Lahnstein that made me draw on the list of speakers again, because I want to give praise to the representative Lahnstein for the attitudes and the starting point that she expressed in her post. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the fact that many people in this and many other questions in the area have needed to let things mature and go difficult and perhaps long rounds both with themselves and with others. I have a great deal of understanding for that. But at the same time, I demand the same understanding for those of us who haven't needed these rounds, because, fortunately, I would say, we have grown up in a more liberal and open society, because we're younger, and maybe because we're grown up, for example. in Oslo. This means that for me this case is not very difficult. I do not dismiss others who think the matter is difficult, but to me who have lived in this city, and who have lived in this city for many years and seen children who have lived in gay relationships, happy children who have had it very safely and well and well and have all the love and care they need, it is of course quite obvious that if one of their parents did something, they should not be taken out of this environment. To me it's quite obvious, it's not hard. But I understand that for many others the road may have been longer than it has been for me. It also brings me to what SV opens up in his proposal. I had hoped that this proposal could be turned into a transmission proposal, so that it would not be downgraded. I live in and for myself in a relationship where I might be able to adopt, but for the time being – in relation to today’s legislation – I have to be careful with a bike. That means that in terms of this opening, I could well imagine that we're continuing the discussion about the question of people living in conditions like this. I live in, are worthy of caregivers, also to be able to adopt. Then I would like that discussion, at least, not to be derailed by the fact that what is really a majority is voting for a proposal that you really are in favour of. I would rather be a little less impatient than that SV is, and say that it is more important to me that the proposal is thoroughly investigated, and that it gets the majority, than that we rush through a vote in a few days now. That's the most important thing -- at least for me. We're starting with a very important step today, by opening up for stebarn adoption. It's a very important step in the right direction. I think the government – it may not be so surprising – has great credibility in this area, it's not because I'm from the Workers' Party I'm saying it, but it's because I experience the commitment around this as real, honest and sincere, and because I'm absolutely sure today's debate is just a step towards full equality between gay and lesbian and heterophilic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e906	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e920	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e931	The change in the law we handle today concerns several minor changes in the family protection office law. What has led to most discussion is whether to open up data for statistical purposes with so-called individualising characteristics if necessary for accurate knowledge, etc. to further develop the service as much as possible. This kind of opening, which is in line with health legislation, is a multiple. The majority have at the same time streamlined the laws in relation to information for research purposes, and have suggested that information with such individualising characteristics should not be available here either. No argument is made about research in the setting, only when it is necessary to expand this to include statistics. If this is a mistake, it's important that the plural corrects this right here in the hall. If that's right, I would like to have a foundation for such a sharp tightening. The working party is in the hands of SV when it is submitted by the Government to open to provide these individualising data for quality statistics, but this should be provided as far as possible without individualising characteristics. In the notes, the minority, the Labour Party and the SV stress that the legal text itself states that the ‘Information shall be provided as far as possible without individualising characteristics’, and we further state that in cases where data protection crosses the need for statistics, the level of privacy should be the most important. The Labour Party believes that the bill takes sufficient care of privacy and that with such legislation there will be no danger that information given to the family protection offices will be misused. Besides, it's an equality with other health and social legislation. The government gets support for all the other legislative proposals in the proposal. Of course, we're happy about that. I want to do the right thing for the most important changes as a case manager. It is important that the different family protection offices – the public and the church – have the same legislation as far as possible. Following the amendment of the law, it is not stated that the administrative laws of the Member States should apply to all, except for the liability of employers. In addition, the Committee agrees that the obligations to pay are still to be governed by Section 5 of the Act that we are dealing with here today, and that this is a reference to Sections 21 and 23 of Health Care Professionals. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the family protection law should contain a declaration of consent, in the same way as that of children. The same applies to children's right to be heard. The Committee points out that it is important that children’s views are given emphasis in relation to maturity and age. Obligations to provide services shall apply without restriction unless the consent to provide information has been given. In matters dealt with by the family protection office, there may be interests which imply that the obligations are retained by law even if consent has been given to the removal of the obligations. It can be done here, for example. it is appropriate to observe the obligations of care for children even if they are granted such powers. The county council has been authorised to maintain its obligations by way of law, if any, with the consent of the county council. In their work on family problems, family protection may raise awareness of circumstances that should be reported on child protection. This is now regulated by the laws. The same applies to social services information when there is reason to believe that a pregnant woman is abusing drugs in such a way that it is very likely that the child will be born with harm. A plurality in the Committee, all the Unacceptable Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the representative of Stolt-Nielsen, support the Department that legal regulation of special personnel requirements is no longer required at the Family Protection Offices. The majority is of course concerned that the competence must be high in a service defined as a specialist healthcare service, but that the county authorities take responsibility for this. This is both a simplification and a example of the decentralization of responsibility and authority. Finally, I would like to point out that on page 3, first column, third paragraph, paragraph 3 is referred to Section 5, second paragraph. There should be Section 5a, which is provided by the legal text itself. This was discovered after the setting had expired, and I request this to be corrected. With this, I would like to recommend the legislative changes that are being introduced, and at the same time take up proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e964	The representative, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e967	Christian People's Party has supported several of the Government's proposals for changes to the Family Protection Offices Act. They have mainly been concerned with harmonising the legislation so that the publicly owned family protection offices and the Church's family protection offices can deal with the same legislation. In two areas, however, the Christian People's Party has found it right to oppose the Government's proposed legislative changes. One concerns the proposal to allow family protection offices to provide personal identifiable data for statistical processing. The background for this was that identification by the application of the user’s personal identification number would help to make statistics more reliable and nuanced, thus providing a better basis for family protection research. I registered that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt called for a reason that this also applied to research. It is possible that our comments may have been somewhat vague, but we have not distinguished statistics from research in this context. The title of the paragraph has both parts in it, and here it is the psychological effect on the outside that it has been important to focus on. However, it is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the importance of research is balanced against the interests of users' security against family protection. That's the point. Family protection is meant to be a low-threshold service. Opening up the delivery of a personal number would lead to a deterioration in privacy, and we think it would result in many people refraining from using the service. We have noted the argument of the Statistical Central Bureau in the letter, which was last presented in a letter from the Council of State to the Committee, which clearly highlights the need to be able to access non-anonymized data in order to ensure the quality of the statistics. However, we have also noticed that the Ministry of Justice's law department argues differently in a letter to the Ministry of Children and the Family, dated 16 October 2000, which raises some doubts as to whether non-anonymising information is necessary for statistics to be reliable and nuanced. The law department also suggests a different solution in the letter to meet the same statistical objectives: instead of using personal numbers, pseudonyms can be used. The extension of the law department concerns correctly a question of professional secrecy under Section 5 of the Family Protection Office Act which prevents sensitive personal data from being provided to the Statistical Central Bureau for statistical purposes. The law department answers yes to this question. The law prevents offices from providing non-anonymised data for statistical purposes. It's as we understand it, the reason why the department is now proposing its own law that opens up to be able to provide person-identifiable information on this use. However, the law department’s response is also a response to the need for such a basis and should be introduced. We have also stressed that well over half of the hearing bodies that have expressed themselves have opposed the proposal, including the Norwegian Psychologists' Association and the National Government of the Church's Family Protection. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a clear majority in the Committee also opposes the proposal. The other area of the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the representative of Stolt-Nielsen, has tabled counter-proposals, is about a demand for interdisciplinaryity at the family protection offices. The reason for the proposal is that the family protection offices face users with very complex problems and that the combination of health and social skills ensured by the current law guarantees both the breadth of the approach and the understanding of these problems. In the opinion of the Ministry, it should be for the county councils to decide which professional competence requirements should be laid down. The Christian People's Party disagrees with this. We believe that there is reason to fear that the economic conditions in the county municipalities will overestimate the quality of family protection services, and that family protection offices can lose some of what has been their advantage, namely interdisciplinary. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this can best be ensured by lawmaking as before. There is also reason to regret that the Government is promoting such a far-reaching proposal as this without having been consulted. There is reason to stress that this proposal has also raised considerable resistance in the professional environments. Otherwise, I refer to the comments. I am addressing at the same time proposal No. 2, which is promoted by the Christian People's Party, Right and the representative Inger Pride-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e988	The representative of Ola T. Lånke has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e991	The Act on Family Protection Offices came into force on 1 January 1998. During this three-year period, the Ministry of Children and Family has gained some experience suggesting that legislative adjustments are now being made. There may be uncertainties that stem from the fact that some of the church family protection offices have not been considered a government or local authority body. The fact that some family protection offices are considered as bodies of state or municipality, while others are not, leads to inequalities, among other things. as regards the scope of the Administrative Act and in relation to the right to receive an explanation from the employees. The proposed legislative changes therefore aim to ensure that the different offices have the same regulatory framework as far as possible. Amendments to the Code of Confidentiality have also been proposed. The rules of professional secrecy in today's law are based on the former medical law. The proposal proposes, inter alia: the obligation of professional secrecy for employees of family protection offices is essentially in accordance with the rules of the Health Care Act. The fact that child protection can be provided with information on, for example: drug use during pregnancy, which is experienced in family protection meetings, is a consequence of this change in legislation. This right will join. The right and a majority of the Committee oppose the Government's proposal to have to give up the number of the person in conversations at the Church's family protection offices. We point out that when family protection law was passed by the Stortinget in 1997, there was a broad political consensus that it would be a low-threshold service. Anyone should be able to visit the service on their own premises without any kind of referral. The proposed legislative changes will, in our opinion, raise the threshold of the family protection offices. The risk of sensitive information about the user and users' families being identified on the personal identification number and sent out of the Agency by means of statistical forms leads to a deterioration in privacy and may help many to refrain from using the service. Although the legislation provides for strict practice in this area, some people would find it a psychological barrier to seeking family protection if they had a feeling that the information could be diverted. The majority refers to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice in an opinion to the Ministry of Children and the Family on 16 October 2000 expressing scepticism as to whether it would be necessary to use the personal identification number to obtain statistics on the requested information, and states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the final case of the real considerations stated, the Legal Service has some doubts as to whether non-anonymised data are necessary for the statistics to be ‘sufficiently reliable and nuanced’. On this basis, we consider it appropriate to oppose the proposed amendment to Section 8. The right is also included in a minority, together with the Christian People's Party and the Coastal Party, to which Mr Lånke referred, who opposes the proposed change to the multidisciplinary requirement of the Ministry. The reason given by the Government is that this should be decided by the county councils. The Church's family protection wants to maintain today's multi-disciplinary legislation. The right has a great deal of understanding of this and will vote that today's law will not be changed at this point. In our opinion, the competence requirement is best ensured by law enforcement, where it is now established that psychiatrists or other doctors, psychologists and socionomists should be employed at the offices. Prest, lawyer and other relevant professional groups may also be associated with the family protection offices. With the changes I've referred to, we're joining the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1013	The proposal makes some adjustments to the Family Protection Offices Act. This Act entered into force on 1 January 1998. Of course, in the period following its entry into force, some experience has been gained to suggest that some adjustments should be made. The problem is that, in some cases, family protection offices are considered to be a government or local authority body, while others are not. This limits the scope of the Administrative Act and the right to receive explanations from employees. The legislative changes in the proposal therefore aim to ensure that the different offices have the same regulatory framework as far as possible. The Progress Party strongly supports the position, and I would therefore just like to comment on the areas where the Progress Party has a different view of principle than the Government. This concerns the Government's proposal to enhance the use of data for research and statistics. Today's family protection law § 8 contains a separate provision that regulates access to the supply of confidentiality-related information for research purposes. The Ministry may, under this provision, decide that information may or shall be provided for research purposes, irrespective of the obligation of professional secrecy. However, this provision does not include statistics. The government proposes that this should also be covered by the law. The Party considers that statistical considerations need to be adequately addressed without conflicting with data protection considerations. Here one must be concerned that the interests of the users, their legal protection and the trust in the service are safeguarded and prioritised. The Government’s proposal provides for a general dissemination of personal data, which is a modification of the obligation of professional secrecy. Family protection offices should be a low-threshold service that can be visited by people without fear of disclosure. The Progress Party therefore opposes this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1022	I think I'll try to be very short. I would like to refer you to the post of the President-in-Office of the Council. I would also like to say that I understand the views expressed by the majority regarding Section 8 and can live well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1029	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1043	At the request of the family, cultural and administrative committees, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group, and up to five lines with replies from the members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1052	Sometimes you get a little surprised by the reactions to a bill. The reactions usually occur when the Government submits the proposal, but in this case the reactions occurred when the Committee gave its opinion. Actually, this is a simple bill that states that sport where knockout is permitted must be approved by the Government before it can be practiced. The law presupposes the development of detailed safety rules which shall be based on the limitation of the damage which may result from knockouts. Today, this is an unregulated area, so it's really free to practice any kind of sport that could cause head damage. We have experienced in recent years that a number of new sports have emerged that allow and even reward knockouts. And there's also every reason to expect that in the next few years we'll experience that there'll be even more sports or varieties based on the same thing. Even I have always thought it's a little strange with sports that reward sportsmen who cause other sportsmen permanent head injuries, as is the case within a number of martial arts. Today we have an explicit ban on professional boxing, while amateur boxing has its own clear rules to limit the damage. It is the same system that we now want other sportsmen with the same level of damage to be covered, and then in such a way that we make clear demands for safety before it is possible to practice martial arts in Norway. Now, at the end of the day, it will be a responsibility for the individual to put up with this, and so it must still be. However, the Workers' Party wants not to be able to participate without the efforts of organisers and others to minimise the potential for harm. Now it would be practically impossible to create a law that prohibits some branches, but allows others, as we have for traditional boxing. This is not least because new branches appear that make it difficult to have a law that will be up-to-date at all times. That's why a system is now being created that allows you to be ahead of the situation. A separate selection shall be established, which shall have competence both in medicine, martial arts and administration, to review applications submitted for the exercise of a field of sport which permits knockout. There is every reason to believe that this is also a far more effective and better way to regulate these activities than to introduce a total ban that often leads to continued exercise of the sport but under unregulated conditions. The Council of Europe has recommended that all Member States prohibit so-called free fighting contests – that means fighting with limited rules – and mention in particular cage fighting. When we choose this way of doing it, it's because, in our opinion, it's a more effective way to regulate it than prohibition. One shall not be much up-to-date in the news picture to note that the Medical Association will have a total ban. Of course, when absolutely no parties on the Storting support the Medical Association in this, it is because we perceive that legal regulation is a better and more effective way to achieve the exact same thing: to limit the long-term damage caused by knockout. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party will be free even with all the well - documented medical results they have for the extent of the damage will be on their own account.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1073	The right refers to the proposed law. The bill aims to regulate various sports that allow knockouts. The right has previously gone in to allow professional boxing in Norway. The health hazards that may arise from the exercise of professional boxing and other sports sports where knockout is permitted seem well documented. However, we believe that the risk of injury in itself is not a good enough reason to introduce special regulation in this area, as the risk of sport, both at amateur and professional level, should be a voluntary matter. We will show that there are other permitted sports that not only endanger the practitioners, but also involve auxiliary workers whose lives and health are at risk when rescue operations have to be undertaken. The Ministry of Justice expressed doubts in its opinion on the necessity of the legislative proposal. There are also doubts about the spread of brutal combat activities. The Ministry of Justice also has doubts about the need for legislation in addition to the responses provided by the penal code today. These views are supported by the right and will go against the proposed law. Thus, there are fighting activities in the form of organised competition, demonstrations or training matches where knockouts are allowed to be regulated. Organized training is not covered by the legislative proposal. It is stated in the Ministry's observations on the legal provisions: ‘In cases where two people agree to fight and time and place are randomly chosen, this indicates that the activity is not organised.’ This means that if the new law is to be taken seriously, any sport with a knockout shall be approved by a State name. So if it's not approved, the activity can go on in a training context, and if two people decide to fight, it's okay. This law is unnecessary, it will cause difficult demarcation problems, and I doubt that the police will invest a lot of resources to follow it up. Many young people in vulnerable settings visit martial arts activities. For most people, these are positive activities that give them meaningful leisure time. Of course, it would have been desirable if the sports had not knocked out as part of their code, and that impact, blow, or kick against their heads had not occurred. But it does, and if some of the activities don't get approved, it can also be an extra voltage moment for some. The activity may then be ‘underground’ or in hidden forms. The Ministry of Justice is, as previously mentioned, in doubt as to the need for the legislative proposal. They have doubts about the need for legislation in addition to the responses provided by the penal code today. This, of course, is a good point. The Criminal Act ‘§ 235 will cover most cases of martial arts and organised combat activity’, says the Ministry of Culture in its comments. It further states: ‘However, organised combat activity with few rules and serious forms of violence is likely to be illegal under the criminal law.’ The Medical Association would like to ban all martial arts with knockouts for medical reasons. On the right, this argument accepts, but will stress that this is a voluntary activity. The best thing would have been if the Sports Association itself had been the supervisors in relation to taking the necessary security measures for the implementation of these types of fights. We believe in information and guidance over moral index fingers from a government knockout. The right will vote against the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1105	Ot. pp. No 75 for 2000–2001 intends to regulate organised fighting activities that allow knockout. It is proposed that such combat activity may be carried out only after specific approval. The progress party has been and is now also positive to e.g. professional boxing in Norway, which is part of this topic we are discussing today. To continue with the example of boxing: The Progress Party regrets that opponents of professional boxing have not recorded developments in the professional boxing environment, but uses media ‘backyard images’ as arguments to protect the health of young boxers in terms of knockouts. The person who has followed in the development of professional boxing has seen that the medical monitoring has become much more stringent and that the ringhouses also carry out the job with great vigilance to the situation of the practitioners. It is also clear that the trainers today are very concerned about the safety of the cans in a combat situation. The Party considers that it is directly unfair to those engaged in so-called combat activities with a knockout that they should not be allowed to practice their sport in their own country because of the fact that in some countries, such as the United Kingdom, they are not allowed to do so. The United States and England, there are so-called unprofessional clubs/organizers. The Progress Party considers the risk that talented young Norwegian practitioners will end up in such environments too much because of the ban on exercising their sport in their own country. We will not in any way try to underestimate the report of the Norwegian Medical Association. Of course, the risk of adverse medical effects exists in knockout jerseys. We can also agree to some extent that such martial arts may seem outrageous to some spectators, but if this should be a heavy argument for a ban, for example, it should be. football shall be absolutely prohibited with immediate effect. Of course, the Progress Party also sees that there are still a few unprofessionals in these environments. This, of course, does not mean that such conditions would occur in Norway. The progressing party refers to the conclusion in the same report that says that all blows to the head can initially lead to head injury, regardless of amateur practice or professional exercise of sport. The party assumes that comparable results would be obtained by testing sportsmen in other vulnerable sports activities, such as ice hockey, football, rugby, i.e. sportsmen allowed in Norway, where one is also very vulnerable to other types of harm. Like the Norwegian Boxing Association, the Progress Party believes that this kind of development has gradually taken place, so today’s law ban does not stop professional boxing. Promising Norwegian amateur boxers are still moving to professional boxing. The Progress Party also refers to the Ministry of Justice, which expresses doubts as to the need for the legislative proposal. There are also doubts about the spread of brutal combat activities. The Ministry of Justice is also in doubt about the need for legislation in addition to the response options already provided by the penal code today. That is why the Progress Party will go against the proposed legislative proposal, as we find this unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1124	The emergence of new combat activities in the same category as professional boxing, prohibited by the Law of 12 June 1981 No. 68, has raised the issue of prohibitions should also be introduced for these ‘new’ activities. Developments in the field give rise to concern. Alternatives to legal regulation to prevent the emergence of these activities have been assessed, and I have come to the conclusion that legal regulation will be most appropriate. That's how we can be at the forefront of development. Developments in the field include, inter alia: led to the Council of Europe's recommendation on the ban on cage fighting. The legislative proposal submitted by the majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs to which the majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs has acceded provides for the regulation of organised fighting activities allowing knockouts. It is proposed that such combat activity may be carried out only after specific approval. An important background to the proposal is that it is considered medically probable that blows and kicks, bumps, towards the head have serious medical adverse effects. Reference is made to the opinion of the Norwegian Sport Medical Association mentioned in the legislative proposal. Fighting activities differ from other leisure activities by permitting and honoring potential harmful acts. The government believes that it is in the interests of society to prevent the establishment of combat activities with a high degree of violence. Regulations of the law will be drawn up with detailed conditions for approval. The regulations will contain safety provisions, where the key conditions will be whether the combat activity takes sufficient account of the health and safety of the practitioners. Examples of possible safety provisions are reduced fighting time, medical supervision and safety equipment requirements. Fighting activities that mainly follow such safety provisions are tokwondo, amateur boxing and full contact kickboxing. These may be described as low-risk activities as opposed to high-risk activities such as: Cage fighting, toughman fighting and thaiboking. High-risk activities will not be approved following the legislative proposal. However, I would like to stress that most types of fighting activities under the auspices of the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee do not allow knockouts, and will therefore not be subject to the legislative requirement for approval. I ask that Odelstingen join the proposed law on the law on organized combat activity that allows knockout.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1148	There is a lot of raw sports that can show up, among other things. the so-called cage fighting to which the Council of State has now referred. It might have been interesting to hear a little bit more about the legislation there, but I don't think we're going to go into it now. What's interesting is that the principle here is that the state should appoint a name that will recognise which ones you can allow to have knockouts in. The doctor's association, which has a different starting point from me, because they take it purely medically and in a way do not see the reality, that these are sports that are becoming more and more popular at least in some youth environments, says in their letter to the committee: ‘We allow ourselves to point to the inconsistency in opening up organised competition, demonstration and/or training, through state council approval, where knockout is permitted, while at the same time being very restrictive. This will mean that the King may choose the persons to be subjected to a knockout.» So that means the King in the Council of States. Does the Minister of Culture see that it is a dilemma to have a commission appointed by the State? If you wanted to go further that way, it wouldn't have, for example. better that the Sports Association or the martial arts Associations themselves were given the task of developing legislation that was more restrictive and could address these concerns? Does the Council of State see the danger that those sports that are not recognised by the name will continue their activity in more hidden forms? For there is nothing in the bill on bans on training and bans on practice in these activities, but it must therefore be prohibited to conduct battles. Isn't it the government's fear that you can then experience that there will be underground battles, as you've seen in some other countries where organizing battles of this kind is very popular, precisely because it's forbidden?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1160	I record that the representative of Greece is skeptical about introducing legal regulation in this area, while the Medical Association, on the other hand, believes that this is too weak. I would like to say that when we now have the legislative proposal, we are going to make proposals for regulations, which will of course be sent out at the hearing of all the organisations concerned, including the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Boxing Association, among others, and we expect that we will have a device that can best ensure that the serious damage to which we have seen many trends does not occur. The brutalisation of sport that is developing in this field is reason to look at it with great seriousness, and we need to follow closely the way law regulation works. It is precisely to avoid creating underground environments in this area, that we introduce regulation and not a ban. But we must follow closely in the future, and, as I said, have good dialogue with all relevant organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1167	The Council of State wants legislation to be in the forefront of a development in sports activities that can deliver knockouts. The Council of State has ongoing regulations regarding other sporting activities, which may not have knockouts, but which are absolutely often both tough and hard, such as: ice hockey and other activities with high damage potential due to speed, high strength and often also some kind of roughness in the heat of the battle? Of course, the Progress Party does not want such regulation, but does the Council of State have more regulation going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1174	I can assure the representative Bredvold that we have no concrete plans to introduce regulation in other sports than martial arts that allow knockout. We see, of course, that in a number of minds there are risk factors that individuals are exposed to, but we don't intend to do anything concrete about this. I want to stress that the difference in relation to these sports that allow knockouts is just that part of the game's rules goes on hitting the head. As there is every reason to point out, and as medical science has repeatedly pointed out, there is a great danger associated with this, as a direct part of this martial arts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1180	I wanted to comment a little bit on what Bredvold asked about, because this bill that we are dealing with today is actually the result of a majority order in the Grand Duchy at the beginning of this period. I think it's very good that you've come up with a scheme to take care of people's lives and health, in an area where it's really necessary. I also noticed that the Council of State will develop regulations. This is a complicated area, and I could then imagine challenging the Council of States on this with international cooperation arrangements in this area, which must also exist, because sport is in many ways international.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1187	It is of course a matter for us in the Ministry of Culture that we want international contact in this field. As in all other sports, there is broad international contact. I have briefed on the Council of Europe, which has opposed some of these sports, and we want a good dialogue with other countries on developments in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1192	No more words have been asked for. Nor has anyone asked for the floor in case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1202	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1289	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1298	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1305	During the debate, Ivar Østberg presented a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that future changes in the municipal structure shall not include municipalities where the local government, or the residents of the referendum, has opposed the municipal association.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1403	The center party has warned that they're going to the third term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1674	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1683	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1690	During the debate, Ms Solberg presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the organisation of a more formal welcome ceremony relating to the award of Norwegian citizenship and to propose this in preference to the Grand Duchy in relation to new changes in the citizenship law.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1747	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1756	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1763	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposals by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right proposal by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The President will first vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left and then alternately between the proposal from the Right and the recommendation from the Committee. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law No 26 March 1999 17 on rental contracts II Law of 26 March 1999 No. 17 on rental contracts are amended as follows:Sections 4 to 3 new second and third paragraphs are replaced by the following:The increase can never be more than 25 pst. [[the renting of dwellings,]] [[the renting of dwellings,]] of current rentals, if lower than repeat rentals. Recreational rent is a representative average of the rental level on site, for the rental of similar accommodation on similar rental conditions. The rent represents four-fifths of the market rental value of the dwelling, or another difference determined by the ministry after annual survey in the rental market, and after deducting the part of the value resulting from improvements and efforts made by the lessee or former tenants under the same lease agreement.The present second and third subparagraphs become the fourth and fifth subparagraphs.§ 9-2 new second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: Nevertheless, the lessee shall be entitled to the extension of the lease in accordance with the rules of § 9-3, if the lessee continues to rent the apartment to persons other than his spouse or spouse, his or her relatives in the straight-up or descending line, and the unborn child or other persons with whom he has or has a common household. The household community must have remained for at least 6 months and not been terminated before the beginning of the tenancy relationship.The present second and third paragraphs become the third and fourth subparagraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1821	The President expects the Socialist Left will now support the recommendation of the Subsidiary Committee. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e1835	During the debate, Mr L. Stang presented a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and Mr L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law No 18 June 1965 4 on road traffic, etc. II Road Traffic Act 18 June 1965 No 4 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2010	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, and Mr L. Stage, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has presented the proposals No. 1 and 2. The President takes first of all proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to locate the new court administration of Oslo.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2172	The first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law 13 August 1915, No. 5 if the courts are amended as follows:Article 33(a) first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:The Board of the Court of Justice shall consist of seven members with personal alternates. [[Court of Justice]] The King appoints two lawyers, the Supreme Court appoints three judges, and the Grand Duchy elects two members to the Board. The Supreme Court may appoint another duly qualified representative of the courts instead of one of the three Judges. The King shall determine the member who shall be the chairman of the Management Board of the Court of Justice.’.» An alternative between the recommendation from the Committee to the first paragraph and this proposal is first replaced by the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2269	The first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 55a, the first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The appointing council for judges shall appoint judges and appoint individual institutions in accordance with the provisions of Sections 55(e) and 55(f). The appointing council shall consist of seven members with personal alternates. The King appoints a lawyer and a lawyer to the public, the Supreme Court appoints three judges, and the Storting elects two members to the Constitutional Council. The King shall determine the member who shall be the head of the Board of Directors.’.» Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to the first paragraph and this proposal and the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2701	The first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 235, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The Court of Justice shall deal with complaints and assess disciplinary measures against judges. The Court of Justice consists of five members with personal alternates. The King appoints a lawyer, the Supreme Court appoints two judges, and the Grand Duchy elects two members as representatives of the public to the Court of Justice. The King shall determine which member shall be the head of the Court of Justice. In the following provisions, the words ‘the Committee of Supervisors’ shall be replaced by ‘the Supervisory Board’: §§ 236, 237, 238, 239 and 240.’; Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to the first paragraph and the proposal from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang to Section 235 and the proposal that the Supervisory Board be amended to the Court of Justice in Sections 236, 237, 238, 239 and 240. And then the second and third terms add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2889	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2898	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2990	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e2999	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3063	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3072	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3079	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ola T. Lånkke on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate a review of the rules and practices applicable to sterilisation adoptions, including the assessment of stricter criteria for the rules applicable to such adoptions.’ The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure lesbian and gay rights to be considered adoption parents.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3172	The Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3183	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President expects the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen to vote against this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3196	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3204	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Ola T. Lånke on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3258	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 of the Act on Family Protection Offices is replaced by the following:§ 4. Individual decision-making responsibilities of doctorsThe staff of the Family Protection Offices shall be interdisciplinary. It should be employed psychiatrists or other doctor, psychologist and sociologist. Legal, clerical and other professional groups with relevant education and training may also be employed by the family protection office. In cases where the professional director is not a psychiatrist or other doctor, and there is a doctor/psychiatrist at the office, the independent decision-making responsibility of this doctor is not affected by the third paragraph of Section 4 of the Health Care Professional Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3362	The second sentence of the first paragraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8 of the Act on Family Protection Offices shall be replaced by the following: The information shall, as far as possible, be provided without individualising characteristics.’ The second sentence of the first subparagraph is replaced by the second sentence of the first subparagraph by the second sentence of this proposal, then above the other paragraphs and sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3471	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3480	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3528	The right hand side and the right hand side have a warning that they want to voice against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3539	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Right Party and the Advance Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3552	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29-lower-2.ana.ud96e3561	There is no record available.
