ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e36	The representatives Odd Eriksen and Arne Lyngstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Arvid Falch, has taken the seat. The representative, Kristin Krohn Devold, applied for sick leave from 7 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Anders C. Sjaastad, is hereby called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e64	Anders C. Shaastad is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e69	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e74	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e79	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Marit Tingelstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e84	I allow myself to promote a Document No. 8-proposal for continuing training of craftsmen in the field of building conservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e89	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e110	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Terje Moe Gustavsen State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Karita Bekkemellem Orheim The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Yes, thank you. We start with the first main questions, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e129	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family: The University and Higher School Council strongly protests that the hoochs have been asked to lay down 590 places before pre-school teacher training from the autumn. It is «a jo-jo policy we are taking a great distance from», says leader of the Council and principal of the University of Tromsø, Tove Bull, to Norwegian pre-school teachers. It is important to have well-qualified people for kindergartens, and preschool teacher training is important to ensure enough people, so that we can achieve the goal of 6,000 new kindergartens this year. But when one is suddenly told to drop out of many places of study, there is a lack of continuity. What will the Minister for Child and Family Affairs do so that the possibility of training as a high school teacher becomes more conservative? And will adding 590 places lead us to reach the goal of 6,000 new kindergartens for the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e138	I want to say that we are going to be able to have a good and fully developed kindergarten sector in the future, we are totally dependent on having a competent and good staff in kindergartens. Together with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, we have carried out a review and a survey of the situation in relation to the need for adequate pre-school teachers in the coming years. After the studies we've done, it turns out that with the escalation plans available, we're going to have enough pre-school teachers. We know that there is a reduced search for this profession this year, and I think we also have to look at pay issues in that context. We also know that the introduction of cash support has led many people not to feel secure about applying for the kindergartens. So I think we're going to have to put in a lot of different ways. But after the studies we've done with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, the Department believes that the numbers we have in terms of number of places should be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e145	I thank you for your answer. I'll leave the cash support debate. It is an important reform that gives parents freedom of choice. But back to filling up the study places. I'll take an example that the Council of State knows very well from More and Romesdal. In Volda they have been told to cut 39 study places. In the past, they have been told to be creative. They have added to a decentralised challenge in Kristiansund, with a school class of approx. 30 elephants. There's a big shortage of preschool teachers. We're talking about kindergartens where they're frustrated because they don't get qualified staff. And here's the high school creative and find new solutions to get enough people who want to take this education that we need. Does the Council of State – with the plan that the Government now has, based on the number of places of study – guarantee that we will have enough qualified people in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e154	All the signals we've got so far are sufficient. But it is clear that if that picture were to change, the government will of course come back to the Storting with new measures. We also know that there are many pre-school teachers who are applying away from kindergarten and across to primary school. So I think we also have to look at the contents of the nursery. We know that the working environment means a lot, we know that the pressure on the individual employees in the kindergarten has increased lately, so I think we probably have to look at different ways to get preschool teachers to stay in the kindergartens in the future. But as I said, I can promise that I will follow this carefully and closely, and if it turns out that development is going in the wrong direction, we will come back with concrete action to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e163	There will be follow-up questions – Valgerd Reply City Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e166	I want to follow up with an additional question that is about keeping them in the kindergartens and about expanding new ones. Some of the last time I went to the State Council before I left was to have a meeting between the Preschool Teachers' Team, the Church, the Ministry of Education and Research and us in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. We wanted to engage in dialogue with the Preschool Teachers team, not only with the Ministry of Church, Exploration and Research. We'd get an action plan, a recruitment plan, both to get new ones to apply for preschool teacher training and to keep them in kindergartens, so that there won't be so many people in active occupations. I expect that the Pre-school teacher team has also contacted the current minister when this is the case. At least it'll be weird if they haven't. Then my question is: is there cooperation followed up, so that one here can get a recruitment plan, where also the preschool teachers and their professional organisations are involved? I think it's very important that we have them in a dialogue, so that we can keep the out-of-work staff in kindergartens. It's not just until the foundation many of them go, they go to a whole other profession, and we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e175	I want to say that I fully share the opinion of Valgerd Replystad Haugland. There is no doubt that we need to have a dialogue with the environments and with the teacher organisations. That's what we've had, and we're going to keep going in the time that's coming, so that we can get a recording and have the opportunity to make concrete follow-up action if we see that the goal we have is not going to stand by. But I want to say again that I think some of the most important thing in this field is actually pay issues. And then we who sit here in the hall know that it's a relationship that initially concerns the social partners, and that neither big business nor government is involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e183	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e186	This is a case at the intersection of several departments, and no one disagrees that it is necessary to have highly qualified kindergarten teachers. One of the problems here is that dimensioning is very difficult. It's very difficult to imagine many years ahead how much need will be. Then my question is: could it not be an idea to solve a little bit of the state-level detail control of the higher spheres that drive such a challenge, and let them find new ways, as they have done both in Volda and elsewhere when it applies, for example. decentralisation? And then a let them decide a little bit more than today how much capacity should be in this area, instead of one of them sitting at the center and figuring out how much need is going to be. This almost never claps, and then we get the jojo effect, which is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e193	Now I'm going to be careful to move too much into the field of another state council, but I think the state council Trond Giske would have replied that we will of course be attending when it comes to proposals from the various colleges. I will pass this on to the Minister of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e198	It will be another follow-up question – Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e201	I want to return to my own territory. I see Karita Bekkemelm Orheim as an offensive government council. Perhaps the main problem here is that there are too few young people looking for the preschool profession. The council has said something about pay, but I could imagine challenging her and asking if there are any other things that have to say for recruitment. One of the measures may be that a few decentralised services are provided within education. It's proved to be very effective. Some others may be quality-enhancing measures in the kindergarten itself, e.g. opportunities for further development, guidance in the job and perhaps other measures. So I want to challenge the Council of State to say a little bit more about it. And then I wonder if there has been any cooperation between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research in relation to the number of applications and applications, because the problem in recent years has been that there are too few applicants. Has the number of places of study now been reduced corresponding to the reduction in the number of applications, or is there an unreasonably large reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e210	First, I want to say that I think it's important that we raise the status a little bit for those who work in kindergartens. If there are pre-school teachers or standard assistants – I get to call them that – all of us who have closeness and knowledge of kindergartens in everyday life know that they are doing an invaluable and very important job. We also know that women don't have the pay that many of us think they should have. Here I think we have to come up with a lot of different measures. In fact, I believe that the working environment, the daily pressure, is perceived as very hard by many employees. I believe that the possibility of self-development, empowerment, on which the representative was involved, will be important, and the Stortinget has also decided to grant less than 6 million. kr for the current year for the enhancement of competence. This is a first step in a stepping-up plan. We know that the need for continuing training for this staff is very great, and that will be something that we are constantly looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e215	Per Sandberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e218	The Council of State and the Government have, in a way, two areas in the kindergarten sector that they have given very high priority, one of which is the desire to build 6,000 new kindergartens – now indirectly from the Labour Party and the Council of State to build more than 6,000 kindergartens. The second priority of the Government and the State Council is to get cheaper kindergartens. Now, however, we note that the same government downgrades preschool teacher education, while at the same time having these two main objectives. My question to the Council of State is how to make this work together. We are actually recording today that there is less and less searching for kindergartens, kindergartens are becoming more expensive and expensive, and we have less and less trained staff to enter kindergartens. I don't see that the government has any kind of connection in its kindergarten policy, so I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e225	I will, on top of all of this, distance myself from it. It's not right that we don't look at what needs it will be for staff in kindergarten in the future, I've now said that several times. We have done a screening work at this point together with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The situation is that neither can a government go out and dictate the professional choices to be made by individuals. We're kind of dependent on making a lot of professions attractive. It is completely wrong when the representative Sandberg says that we will not be able to achieve the target of 6,000 new kindergartens in 2001 with the amount of input we have in relation to this group today. It's going to be completely wrong. But, as I said, if it turns out that there will be dramatic changes in the coming years, the Storting must also take specific measures so that we can have a high-quality kindergarten in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e237	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. In recent years, Norwegian consumers have had many alternatives in the refrigerator with regard to milk, cheese, ice, yoghurt, etc., and consumers seem to have appreciated this. The turnover figures may indicate that this is the case. Now some actors in this market seem to have had some problems. NILF reports may indicate that this is due to – say – the antiquarian system we have in the milk market. Those who have taken up the competition feel that you do not have equal conditions, of course, because you have a system that is established for the purpose of not having competition. There was a historical justification for this which was understandable, but which is difficult to understand in 2001. Does the Council of State consider it important to keep other actors in this market, and what will and can the Council of State do within the existing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e249	I would like to admit that I think the question that Gabrielsen raises here concerns a difficult matter. On the one hand, competition is clearly important and desirable and it is desirable that alternatives be available to market-regulating cooperatives. There are clear examples in this industry that it has been beneficial for us to have had such competition, for example: on the meat side, where we have so-called private operators representing a certain size in all parts of the meat industry. My claim is that it has been good for Norwegian meat, it has been good for Norwegian farmers and it has been good for – not least – Norwegian consumers. In particular, we have good alternative actors both on the meat side and on the poultry side, and I also believe that we will have it with the new market organisation for cereals and forage. However, we have to admit that we are struggling to put it in place on the milk side. The acute situation is now on the Q dairies, which are trying to establish competition for TINE on human milk. There is a very demanding exercise, because there is no doubt that just human milk is the part of the milk sector in which economies of scale are absolute. The establishment of competition with TINE, which has a very rational structure on human milk, is a demanding exercise. My main answer to the question, however, must be that I still believe that competition is in principle important. That is why I am now actively working on this issue these days, I am concerned about the issue, and I am now considering new measures to ensure that the objective of competition can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e258	Overall, the milking area in agriculture accounts for about half of the total. DKr 5-6 billion in the state budget. This is an essential element, of course, in Norwegian agriculture, and it is a not insignificant amount in the context of government budgets. Governments mentioned this with economies of scale. It is difficult to imagine that there can be actors who, as from day one, should be such a big player who can compete. This means that if you are going to win this competition, it will necessarily have to cost a few kroner at an initial stage for a limited period of time. If the objective is diversity for the consumer, which I understand the Council of State has as a leading star in other areas as well, and it may indicate that for Norwegian taxpayers it will not be unfavourable to do so, and for Norwegian farmers will obviously be an advantage, will not a small cost related to this appear to be a small cost of a potential large income service in the long term, also in relation to the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e265	It is precisely the kind of arguments that the questioner now uses, which means that the matter is also at my table, and which makes me actively working on the issue in these days. But at the same time, we must also recognise that there are some areas of business where establishing small-scale competing activities against an enterprise that has established itself heavily and properly in the market may not be the world's wisest business strategy. It cannot be the task of the public at any time, almost no matter what kind of business strategy the competitors of TINE have, to raise them up. And that's exactly what I think this assessment is difficult. I am therefore going some extra rounds now, of course with a view to a fairly quick clarification of the Government's position on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e270	There will be follow-up questions – Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e273	Governments say it's not the government's job to help alternative companies. Then I think the starting point is wrong, because as the representative Gabrielsen was in, there is at the bottom a support of NOK 5-6 billion for the main actor today, which is paid by the Norwegian state. So this is actually about developing systems that can offer equivalent offers to other actors, so that they can get into this sector – in the interests of the consumer and not least of the Norwegian peasants, who could in the long run benefit from an alternative on the table. Will the Council of State now take the initiative to investigate alternative models that allow us to provide alternatives to TINE Norske Meierierier in the long term and in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e280	I have already said several times that this matter is under assessment and that one should come to a quick conclusion. But what that conclusion is, I have to be allowed to come when it's ready. In any case, it will have to contain assessments both in the short and long term, because this will have to focus not only on possible short-term solutions but also on longer-term thinking. What I can comment on in relation to what Ivar Kristiansen is now asking about is that what we have today in relation to the drinking milk dairies, NILF, as Gabrielsen also referred to, has in many ways been competitive on equivalent terms. And that system has been adopted with the Right Votes in Stortinget, so it's not only the Labour Party that is responsible for the system we have, but also the Right. The question here is whether we simply need to establish competitive advantages for the benefit of new entrants and to the detriment of TINE, which is going beyond today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e287	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e290	The starting point for the Right question was that two-three companies have had problems and can even go bankrupt, and there could be a lot of questions in the Questionnaire if all such business problems were to be addressed. In the past, however, the companies concerned have also received extra attention in all consultations on agricultural policy and agricultural policy, and when the Business Committee has been on the move, they have always been at the top of the list. There has been ongoing discussion in the Committee and in Stortinget on how to open up the competition on which there is an agreement – everyone agrees that there should be competition – but these companies must also be able to stand on their own feet under the same conditions as those they compete with. They must then find themselves paying a countervailing charge, because they take into account the products that are perhaps the most profitable, and are in the best areas. I think it's very worrying if that's how it's going to be a political definition of competition. Is it really what the Workers' Party is now adding, after one has previously agreed that it is the professional calculations of the balancing charge that will determine this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e297	I just want to establish first that there can be no doubt that there will be a balancing charge, both geographically conditional and product-related. So it's solid, and it's not to be assessed. But what is to be assessed is simply the question: if you say that you want to compete, how do you put the framework conditions in place so that you can actually have the opportunity to establish competition? It must not just be a political statement that one can hide behind and say: yes, we have politically said that we want it, but in practice it is impossible to achieve it. And that's the question that I'm now considering quite carefully, to see if the system we've set up today actually makes it possible to establish competition. And, as I said, that question I have per. Today, it has not been concluded, but that conclusion will soon be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e302	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e305	The size was, as far as I remember, unanimous in agreeing to have a more open and equal competition on the processing side when it came to milk. We haven't done this, TINE has over 99 pst here. of the turnover. Now we've got a NILF report. Subsidies schemes are also assessed at a higher level outside the market organisation. But it's important to consider other things, for example. the quota system. Today, all milk must be produced within quotas. Will the Council consider opening up this legislation as an alternative? We have a commitment to the Norwegian people. The milk sector costs approx. $6 billion a year. It is the most pervasive sector, and it is often the case that many regulations – higher prices for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e311	The answer to the question is no. I don't want to judge that. In my opinion, the quota system in the milk system is one of the most important elements of Norwegian agricultural policy. But it is not surprising that the representative Hedstrøm and I consider this issue quite differently, because we have a completely different understanding of what is supposed to be the role and task of Norwegian agricultural policy. And it is clear that if one does not want to use agricultural policy as part of the rural policy instrument, one can be opposed to quota arrangements in the milk sector. But as long as you want agriculture throughout the country, and as long as you want to use agricultural policy as part of the rural policy, it is very important that the quota system in the milk system remains in place. And that's what it's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e319	I would like to ask a question to the Council of State, Terje Moe Gustavsen. Aviation has become increasingly important for the development of business and for rural settlements. Since the establishment of airports, there has been a steady growth in the traffic of air passengers up to the year 2000. For the first time, air traffic has fallen, with a total of 4.5 pst. on an annual basis. The tax burden on air traffic in Norway has led to a total of 30-80 pst. the price of tickets is made up of charges, which means that air fares and conditions for air carriers and thus for the Air Administration are increased. What will the Council of State do to improve the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e328	Aviation is very important — and has gradually become very important in our country, not least for business and the whole of District Norway. At the same time, aviation is the most environmentally harmful mode of transport we have, and it is also a very expensive mode of transport in relation to the infrastructure. There must be a constant balance between these considerations – taking into account the very high value added and the costs and pressures it provides. It's true that we've seen a drop in traffic relatively recently. We and the Swedish Aviation Agency are uncertain whether this is a lasting trend or a temporary phenomenon, not least as a result of recent structural changes in aviation. It is only after some time that we can see whether this is permanent or only temporary. As far as the framework conditions of the Aviation Agency are concerned, they are central to the organisation of safe and good aviation and, as the representative of Stensaker is aware, this is currently being dealt with in this House on the basis of the Government’s notification of the National Transport Plan. We propose that the Aviation Agency should have a good basis for carrying out its tasks. We will follow developments closely, including in the area of fees, to ensure this. But I expect that both this house and I can also come back to you in the course of the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e337	I thank you for your answer, and would like to raise an additional question. The introduction and increase of the passenger charge leads to more expensive air tickets. This results in lower traffic, which in turn leads to reduced revenues for the Aviation Agency. In addition, the financial situation of the Aviation Agency is characterised by significant maintenance and investment needs, while requiring a higher return from the State. The additional tax burden now imposed on aviation will affect districts unfairly and will contribute greatly to weakening the competitive conditions of industry. This could lead to more centralisation of both housing and business activity, a development that goes beyond the expressed wish of abiding magnificence and government. What will the Council of State do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e346	As you know, the fee that the representative Stensaker is focusing on here is formally the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but – I had just said – the consequences are my responsibility, and that is why I choose to comment on it anyway. The changes in the passenger fee that were adopted during the last harvest of the budget process will result in a passenger fee also in South Norway, but I would like to stress that no passenger fee is paid in the three northernmost counties, except Bodø and Tromsø. Furthermore, aviation will receive a zero rate of VAT from 1 July this year. This will lead to an improvement. Whether this results in reductions in traffic remains to be seen. This may lead to the need for state purchases of air traffic services at some airports, as we have seen at Røros. I want to keep this under constant observation to see if there is a need to enter the state purchase, and it is also clear that over time you have to assess the entire charging side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e353	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e356	I would like to follow up on the question of focusing it a little bit more on the high air fares you get when you live in District Norway and have to combine the regional grid with the main route network. We've seen a huge impact on prices, especially from Finnmark, when you're going to get between different places in the county, and when you're going to get from Finnmark to South Norway. What I'm a little interested in asking the minister about, is whether in the future, when combining the regional grid and the main route network, you can also imagine – especially with regard to the main route network to and from North Norway – to assess the purchase of services on the main route network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e363	I agree with the representative of Sahl that airline tickets are expensive, not least on the long distances. With regard to the price regime in relation to the country of purchase, it was organised through the tendering round which took place in the autumn of 1999 and which was launched on 1 April 2000. In other words, decisions were made by the government then sitting at the price level. Later, these maximum prices are regulated according to the price increase. As regards the question of extending the scope of the purchase of services, which is actually the subject of the representative, Sahl, there will be a question to be considered in each round of tenders and of course have to be assessed in the course of the 2003 round of tenders. But it's clear that entering the large traffic volumes at part of the tribal airports and buying services there will be enormously expensive. And that of course belongs to this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e370	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e373	I have a question for the Minister of Transport – the crossroads is the TIME train, the Bratsberg track in Telemark. There have been recent negotiations between the NSB management and the French train company Connex that this company should take over the TIME train project for operation on Bratsbergbanen. This has created optimism in view of the fact that traffic can return to the rails, thereby avoiding the strong negative effects that the closure of operations has had on both the border area and the Notodden community. So it turns out today, according to the media in Telemark, that Connex says no, allegedly justified by the fact that it has become too expensive, the NSB has overpriced its material – that is at least how it emerges. The NSB will sell this material as soon as possible, while there are other actors that may possibly be on the road. This will mean that an important arrow for the TIME train will fall away. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this sale does not take place too quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e383	First, I would like to stress that it is not such that the Bratsberg Railway is shut down. The reason why the NSB itself does not operate the path now is the resource situation for drivers. With regard to the situation around the company TIME train, I have been and am very positive about getting other owners, other actors, and I am the first to complain that actors are falling out of this. I'm also still positive that others get on the track, if that should happen. I have had a dialogue with the NSB on this, also in relation to possible negotiations on takeover. It is clear that the NSB has to assess this on a commercial basis, but the NSB has assured me that they have entered into these negotiations and will continue to enter into any negotiations on a reasonable basis. But it's also that the NSB -- let's say literally -- can't give away properties. I am also sure that the representative Rahm agrees with me. I'm still positive for a sale. I intend to do so in a reasonable manner, however, so that the NSB has to assess the commercial nature of it. With regard to the question of starting the operation of the NSB on the Bratsberg Railway, it is necessary to consider the resource situation on the driver’s side. Overall, according to the NSB, the driver situation will improve only in 2002, but there is still reason to follow developments closely in relation to the individual route. I show you, among other things: that the NSB has decided to resume traffic on the Arendals track – as far as I remember now – in June this year. So I am still positive about the sale of the TIME train, but if a sale is not successful, you have to make sure to get NSB traffic started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e396	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and would like to follow up on what he said about the reason that there is no traffic on the Bratsberg Railway, is lack of staff, especially lack of drivers. There was a public meeting on the Notodden last Monday that had quite a stir, and where representatives of the Locomotive Man Union were invited. They say the following: There is no driver shortage in the NSB today. You have coverage, you have enough material, and there is also money to operate on the Bratsberg Railway. The economic director of the NSB, Kjell Haukeli, today confirms through the telemark newspapers that the driver’s problem has been solved, and that he has the capacity to operate the Bratsberg track, but at the same time kicks the ball over to the department, and says that it is now up to the department whether or not there will be traffic on this route. I therefore ask the Council of State the following questions: Can the Council of State help to ensure that there is traffic when the drivers are in place, the material is in place, and the money in the budget is in place? Why don't the trains go?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e405	It has often been said in this Chamber that one wonders whether the Council of State is governed by the Lokomotive Man Union or by the NSB's management. So it may surprise me a little bit that you now show greater confidence in the trust of the Lokomotives' Association than in management. I, for my part, obviously have to deal with the management of the NSB and with the board, which provides information about the personnel resources to us. That's what I'm still going to do. Otherwise, it would simply be a mistrust of the company's management. We have, as I said in my main response, a continuous dialogue with the NSB's management, and we still want that. The point is that the temporary stoppages resulting from the lack of driving shall cease as soon as they are advised, as soon as they are sound. This shall continue to be the case both in relation to the Bratsberg track and other tracks. That's the goal, and it'll be there all the time. It is clear that we want to include all the information in this dialogue, but I expect everyone to understand that we have to deal primarily with the management of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e412	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e415	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture is opposed to consumers alone, to the animal health authorities and to agriculture on the issue of the prohibition of imports of bovine animals from countries infected with BSE. He hopes for support from the Right and Advance Party, as he got in the matter of makeup, and as he got in the matter of continued use of antibiotics in animal feed in Norway. We would not have had any discussion about cow disease in Norway if it wasn't because the Council of State examined their own professional authorities. In other European countries, imports of animals from countries with BSE infection have been banned in hopes of avoiding infection in their own country. The attitude of the Council of State must be due to the earlier opening of the Workers' Party to imports of live animals, despite the unambiguous advice of the same professional authorities and agricultural protests. Why should not animal health and public health considerations be as crucial for the Norwegian Government as for the authorities of EU countries, as I said?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e424	The answer to that question must be that I am, of course, concerned with taking care of animal and public health in Norway, and base the decisions made, precisely on clear professional assessments in this way. The starting point for the issue of imports of live animals into Norway is that in Norway we have an institute that has a clear responsibility for carrying out a risk assessment of various professional issues. That institute is called the Veterinary Institute. And I've asked the Veterinary Institute if the import of live bovine animals is a threat to animal or public health. To that end, the Veterinary Institute has replied: when we import live animals into Norway from countries that have a lower status than us, there is an increased risk that we will import the infection into Norway. But it will not, however, pose a threat to animal and public health, because first of all, jealousy is not a contagious disease. So it won't be able to be transferred from one cow to another cow in the poultry. This cannot pose a threat to animal health, given that one cow does not begin to eat the other cow – and hardly! Nor is it a threat to public health, because we have a special system to follow up these animals when they come to Norway. Therefore, the Veterinary Institute concludes that when we mark them, we remove risky waste when we slaughter them, and test all imported animals before they may be placed on the market, the Veterinary Institute considers that this meat is safe, in the same way that Norwegian meat is safe. And then I do not have a professional basis for imposing import bans.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e431	The same veterinary institute has confirmed in writing – and orally to the nutrition committee – that importing animals from such countries also poses a risk to an importer. They have also said that the tests you have are not sure enough. In addition, we don't know enough about the pathogens, they also say. So this is about a leading var attitude. That's what they've been using in other countries that I referred to. When the EU destroys all animals when there is one animal that has infected a herd, it is because they do not trust their tests. If not, they would have tested the animals that were not infected, and used them for food. I guess the Council of State does not say that animals are now being destroyed in the EU to regulate the market. I hope that's not what's happening. Then it's about a huge misrepresentation. The veterinary institute shall have, inter alia: confirmed that the tests are more insecure as the younger the animals are slaughtered and it may be contaminated meat coming out as food for that reason. Does the Council of State consider that the Norwegian tests are better than those used in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e440	I don't have my own opinions about the tests. I just want to repeat what I've said, that the Veterinary Institute says that jealousy is not a contagious disease. There is a very broad consensus on this in all professional environments working on this issue in Europe. There is complete agreement on this in the Scientific Committee of the EU system, and the Veterinary Institute has no other assessment of this issue. It's not a contagious animal disease. The veterinary institute also concludes that when we follow the animal, the risk material when we slaughter it and test it, it is safe for Norwegian consumers, just as Norwegian meat is, of course, safe for Norwegian consumers. And as long as the Veterinary Institute says that here we have meat that is safe, we have no professional basis to argue for an import ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e447	There will be follow-up questions – Valgerd Reply City Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e450	I had enjoyed listening to the Minister of Agriculture during the Nordic Council's session in Copenhagen yesterday, where he spoke enthusiastically about people's need for security when it comes to groceries osb. It was an interesting post that was kept there. But what becomes a paradox for us who listen to the Minister of Agriculture yesterday, and who has also followed the work of the Government, is that on the one hand one says that one has a great commitment to public health and security when it comes to food, but on the other hand one goes out and recommends some directives that even according to the government's own judgements are a weakening of the people's affections, the food make-up directives. It's going to be a paradox for us that there's one argument that beats the other in whole. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to try to explain how, on the one hand, they want to stand up as warm defenders of safe food and safe health, while, on the other hand, they recommend directives that they know can weaken public health, and which, in fact, the Government itself says in its assessments will be a weakening for some people's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e459	The President's assessment is enough that this question was a little bit on the side of what was originally asked, but she leaves to the Council of State to assess whether he will answer it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e463	My assessment of this, too, is that the question is also raised in relation to a directive to which it is not up to the Ministry of Agriculture to adopt a position. However, the starting point is, of course, that in every case – including those matters that were being dealt with by the previous government, such as: administered imports of live bovine animals from countries with bovine disease — need to continuously assess the risk versus the measures taken to address the risk. Then there is an overall assessment that needs to be made to find out how to conclude. And then it's the government's assessment of both the additive issue and the import of live cattle that we can nevertheless tell Norwegian consumers that the food sold over the counter in Norway is safe to eat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e470	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e473	It is interesting to listen to the answer the Minister of Agriculture gives to the representative Morten Lund, where he says that the Veterinary Institute claims that meat from imported live animals is safe to eat because it is controlled. In the United Nations on 24 January, the Minister of Agriculture says that the Veterinary Institute states ‘that the risk of eating this is also low’. This is a completely different statement from what the Minister of Agriculture is using today, where he says that the Veterinary Institute has said that it is safe. There's a difference between the risk being low and it's safe to eat it. This statement is reflected in a series of statements made by the Minister of Agriculture when he has dealt with the question. He started by saying that there was no point in imposing a ban on the import of bone meal. The Minister of Agriculture had to go back on that. Secondly, the Minister of Agriculture said that meat from live imported animals was safer to eat than meat from Norwegian animals. The Minister of Agriculture also had to go back on that. The Minister of Agriculture is now trying to build confidence by making people believe that unsafe tests are safe. There is only one way to prevent the spread of infection; it is to stop imports of live animals, as some EU countries have also seen. When will the Minister of Agriculture see the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e484	Firstly, the situation in the EU so that several of the countries that have been banned from imports are now in the process of lifting their bans, for the very same reason that we cannot impose a ban, that the European Scientific Committee has clearly stated that there is no professional basis for imposing an import ban. So the countries that have adopted prohibition decisions are in the process of lifting the ban. I just want to make it very clear that the Veterinary Institute's opinion to me – and of course anyone can check by calling at any time – is that with the measures taken in relation to this imported live bovine animal, it is the meat sold and offered in Norway that is safe to eat. It's a clean record of direct statements that have been given to me in several contexts lately. The meat is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e491	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e494	Yesterday, at a meeting of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen, the Minister of Agriculture said that the Council of Ministers would now set up what he called the Consumer or Food Security Council, which would be more responsible for food security in the Nordic region. And that, in my opinion, is a wise way to organize the work. What I could imagine challenging the Council of States, if not this is also a wise way to organise the work in Norway. The deep crisis of confidence that now exists between the population and meat producers in particular means that political responses must also be seen. In Germany, it has now been decided to set up its own Ministry of Consumer Affairs, and the Ministry of Food has already been established in Denmark. In Norway, this type of question is divided into many departments, with unclear responsibilities. My challenge to the Council of State is: Can he imagine going ahead with it, so that he himself may not only become Minister of Agriculture, but in fact also Minister of Consumers – which he has always inspired and said he wants to be – so as to get a greater degree of political focus on what is the big issue of European policy now, namely food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e503	First of all, it is important for me to stress that what Djupedal says about a fundamental mistrust between consumers and the authorities in Norway is wrong. It is obvious that Norwegian consumers have confidence in what the authorities have done in relation to the cow health crisis, for the fact in Norway is that the consumption of beef has increased, while elsewhere it has fallen dramatically. So Norwegian consumers eat more beef than they have ever done, as far as I remember the statistics, the consumption has at least increased after you started to focus on cowhood. So now when you try to show it as if the government and I are acting in such a way that consumers are almost shivering in uncertainty, it's a fundamental mistake. At least there is no indication of how consumers behave at the shops, they buy a lot of beef. So to the second question. I think Djupedal will have a great deal of understanding that it is the Prime Minister who always organizes his government that he finds useful. However, regardless of the question of how the Prime Minister chooses to organise the number of departments, we will come to Stortinget in a time to simplify both the field of supervision and law in this area with food – food security, food control, food surveillance throughout the whole chain from land to table. We aim to promote one food law that will replace five food laws. We are working on the coordination of agricultural supervision, animal health control and food surveillance, and are therefore to come to Stortinget with a proposal for a regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e510	I thank you for your answer. The last part of it was positive. Now I have not said that Norwegian authorities are necessarily in a deep crisis of confidence. But if we look at what's happening in Europe, the politicians throat after consumers, the fall in the sale of beef in France, Germany and Italy is over 50 pst. I am glad that Norwegian consumers still have more confidence in the authorities than they have many other places. That's why it's important to be ahead of each other, and not just neck after neck, as you've seen across Europe. That's the starting point for my question. When the Nordic Council of Ministers now sees the need to reorganize, when the German government sees the need to reorganize, when the Danes see the need to focus more on consumer issues and food security, I am pleased with the organisational and political action that the Government here suggests. But the question is, should you actually not go on here? I understand that the Council of State does not have the authority to say that this is a good idea, that this needs to be discussed further in the Government. But at the same time, I must be allowed to encourage the State Council of Hanssen to raise the question to discussion in the Government if this should not be organised in a more offensive, consumer-oriented way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e519	Well, if Djupedal with the latest one thinks asking if I feel a responsibility to work offensively with the organisation of this whole area, the answer is absolutely yes. There's no need to bring it up in the government, it's already been on the government's table several times. But if Djupedal with the question thinks that I'm going to take up the government's question about changing the ministerial structure, the answer is no. Of course, the Prime Minister must always be free to assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e526	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e529	I want to ask the Minister for Transport a question. As we know, there is significant value creation along the coast, and there are high expectations of increased value creation in the future in coastal industries. Today, the shipbuilding industry has an order mass of NOK 33 billion. That's about. three years of work for the yards, and there is no urgent need for ferries to be built here to keep employment up. In the construction industry, on the other hand, it is said that two thirds of the capacity is available and the industry is shrinking. At the same time, there are many unresolved problems that we're totally dependent on being solved if we're going to get the expected value creation that we're talking about. These days we are also talking about the renewal and modernisation of the public sector and getting more targeted services. So I want to ask the Minister for Transport the following: what is the contribution of the transport area to the modern modern thinking? And is it a modern and good idea, for example. the inclusion of annual subsidies for ferry operations in the financing of ferry relief projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e541	With regard to the shipyard industry that the representative of Kongshaug initially affected, I think that the picture is a little variable. On average, this is what the representative of Kongshaug referred to, but it is also the yard that has the opportunity to contribute on the ferry side in the near future. Of course, the employment aspect is also important in this way. With regard to the construction industry, it is difficult to identify the situation there in relation to labour. It's because you have long traditions of having construction and construction as one sector, and then it's not easy to see it split up. They're grey zones, too. So it's necessary to operate with a voltage, to put it this way, in terms of how many people are out of work or who are out of work, and there's a lot of evidence that in this industry we have as much as 2,000 to 3000 people who are out of work or who are out of work. With regard to the situation in the future, following the Government’s national transport plan, the activity will increase in 2002. Of course, the government will also have this situation in its evaluation during the 2002 budgetary procedure. With regard to our contribution to renewal, there are extensive processes in many of the businesses in the transport sector; perhaps the most visible has recently been processes for the state road system, where there is a significant increase in efficiency. So we're not just talking about hundreds of years' work, but maybe thousands of years' work, and at the same time a better and more efficient organization. So it's also absolutely a theme in the transportation business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e550	I thank you for the answer to the first part of my question and would like to repeat the second part of it: is it a modern and good idea, for example. the inclusion of annual subsidies for ferry operations in the financing of ferry relief projects? I would like that signal from the Council of State. On the other hand, we also know that shortages of labour will be a major challenge in the coming years, and there we all have to be involved in making our contribution – also from a political point of view – to try to remedy it. In fact, there is talk of the need for labour immigration of 10,000 people per year. years. Is it not reasonable, then, that the manpower employed to drive ferries back and forth between two points is liberated/remunerated by fixed connections and that the labour force can then be directed towards more targeted and efficient production?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e557	In general, it is important to equip the workforce to get the most out of it, as well as in this area. With regard to the specific question of using ferry subsidies, we have an assessment of this in our proposal for a national transport plan. It is reasonable to assume that this is now also under assessment in the final processing of the transport plan by Stortingen, and I expect that in that context we will also come back to it. In general, I would say that there are good reasons to think in such a way, but we also need to have an overall picture, and in that overall picture, both ferry subsidies and labour belong at home, but it also belongs here that you often relieve underwater tunnels that have a very high operating cost. And of course, the capital costs of such a tunnel are also included. It's in this whole thing you have to find good solutions, and that's what we're trying to do all the time, and we're sure that it's also the basis for the Greatness treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e566	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e569	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The last week has been marked by the cruel killing of Benjamin Hermansen, and in this regard party leader Thorbjørn Jagland has written his weekly letter on the fight against racism. The title of the letter is ‘The fight against racism begins with prevention’, and he writes here: ‘But nothing helps without attitudes.’ Whether this was written before or after he referred to Gabon’s President Omar Bongo as ‘Bongo of the Congo’ shall be unsaid. But further in the letter, Igland writes: ‘We need to focus on national child policies and youth policies. Or lack of such a thing.’ Does the Minister for Children and Family agree with party leader Jagland that Norway does not have a child and youth policy? And what will she do to meet the party leader's demands to provide the country with a child and youth policy? In addition, it may be interesting to hear what the Government is doing now to strengthen the prevention work in the fight against racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e586	What party leader Thorbjørn Jagland has said is that, as the Prime Minister has also said, we are at a crossroads in Norway with what we have experienced in recent times. And I have to say that I am very happy that we have a party leader in the Norwegian Labour Party who is concerned with the prevention work directed at children and young people. I also think that, as politicians, we have to admit in many ways that we have not been able to organize a good enough preventive work in our society. The representative of Greece asks what the government will actually do. We are working on presenting our own youth message to Stortinget. It'll be ready in June. I would also like to mention that the Prime Minister will now have a meeting with various organisations and individuals on the next Friday on how we can follow up on what we have experienced in recent times. What I feel in a way that the party leader has said is that it doesn't help if we have fine honorary words in our speeches if we can't follow it up through concrete political actions. And then it's a responsibility for those who sit here in the Chamber, it's a responsibility for the Government, and not least it's a responsibility for our municipal politicians that we take a common vow for children and young people. That's why I hope we can have cross-political cooperation, so that we can get a completely different bet on children and young people at the time we go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e595	I am very pleased with the desire for cross-political cooperation. But I think it's strange that the party leader uses this roadblock to go into unilateral attacks on the policy that's being pursued in Oslo, and that he spreads direct lies about the situation in Oslo. It will include, among others: in the weekly letter that ‘in the 1980s, a systematic closure of recreational clubs and other recreational services for young people began’. In Oslo today there are 108 municipal leisure clubs and 69 private clubs. These get over 100 million. kr i support. It is further written in the letter that the maintenance of schools in Oslo has been neglected. There is a budget of 6 billion kroner over eight years for this maintenance. Does the Minister for Children and Family feel that party leader Jagland is proposing to invite cooperation across party boundaries, when he systematically discriminates against the so-called bourgeois parties in the fight against racism?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e602	What Thorbjørn Jagland has pointed out is the actual situation in Oslo, which means that in some schools there is an increase of 100 pst. in the case of the school leisure scheme. This is a political act, and the City Council in Oslo cannot ignore it. I also think that all those who know the Oslo School, in some ways, share the opinion of Thorbjørn Jagland that the school builders should have been in a different constitution. We know that the content of Oslo School is good in many places. But I think we have to admit that we should have a completely different offensive with regard to offers to children and young people, and I want to ask a question back: Does the representative Trond Helleland really think that the offer we are able to give children and young people in Oslo is good enough? I don't want to say there's any contradiction between what Thorbjørn Jagland has said, and the invitation I'm now asking Right to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e607	There is no reason to ask questions back, so it is still unanswered. The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e614	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Kjell Magne Bondevik to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 2, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Defence, will be taken up by the representative of Arvid Falch. Questions 12 and 13 from the representatives of Morten Lund and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left. Question 14, from the Per Sandberg representative to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Kari Økland to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 21, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, the question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. In addition, question 9 was removed from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e641	This question, from Kjell Magne Bondevik to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e644	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In several countries, inter alia: The United Kingdom, Germany, Poland and Sweden, were marked as a memory day for the Holocaust on 27 January 2001. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to ensure that this can also be an annual marking and anniversary in Norway, as a regular reminder of the historical untruth and as part of the work against racism?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e653	We must make our efforts against racism and intolerance in many areas. One important task is to keep historical lessons alive, not least to give new generations knowledge and a deeper understanding of good and evil forces in our own history, our own cultures and our own time. Holocaust is European history. That's why it's also part of Norwegian history. Before Christmas, we marked an end line for the settlement in connection with the assets that were abducted Norwegian Jews during World War II. But at the same time there was an opportunity to remember November 26, 1942, when 530 Norwegian Jews were picked up and stowed on board the cargo ship «Donau», which was at the dock in Oslo. A few days later, 346 of them had ended their lives in the gas chambers in Auschwitz. Two and a half years later, only nine of the 530 were alive. It's our duty to do everything we can to understand and explain that because it actually could happen one more time. The Kims of what ended up in the holocaust are not torn away. The Kims live as part of our civilization and emerge in new utterances. Less than ten years ago, we once again had to deal with the concept of ethnic cleansing in Europe. Again and again, we have seen racist statements and racist-motivated violence, which have also led to killings. The trafficker at Holmlia has clearly shown that Norway is no longer ashamed of this. The government's emphasis is on contributing to the whole community's awareness-raising efforts to curb racist, violent and authoritarian flows. This work needs to be expressed in several ways, with a particular focus on the local community’s own ability to meet the challenges. In addition, we must ensure that our knowledge of history is maintained. The government has therefore decided to establish a centre for studies of the position of Holocaust and life-synthesis minorities in Norway. This centre is to be added to Villa Grande, which during the war was used as Vidkun Quisling's residence. Preparatory work is now under way, including: with the participation of the Mosaic religious communities and the University of Oslo, on how to equip Villa Grande and how to fit in with the Centre. In the context of strengthening attitudes towards racism and intolerance, annual memory markers may have a positive value. Some countries chose on 27 January – the date of Auschwitz liberation in 1945 – as the starting point for such a mark. This may also be an appropriate date for an annual Norwegian marking, but there may also be other dates with the correct symbolising effect. In this context, I would like to point out that 21 March is the UN International Day against Racism. The government will, among other things in contact with organisations engaged in the fight against racism and in connection with the establishment of a holocaust centre at Villa Grande, address the issue of an annual marking on a date that can make the best contribution to mobilisation and reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e673	There is a broad consensus about what the foreign minister now said, that we need regular work, both to remember the untruth and the genocide against the Jews during the war, the Holocaust, and to continue working against the germs we have of racism and Nynazism in our own society. When I think that 27 January can be a suitable date for an annual day of marking and memory – as one of several measures in this work – it is because several countries have chosen that date. There can therefore be a flag across larger parts of Europe. And otherwise, it is also a coincidence, because it was the night of January 27th the tragic and racist motivated killing of Holmlia took place. I believe that schools, non-governmental organisations, the Church and others should be involved in such an annual marking. In the United Kingdom, which started this year, they have developed a great teaching system for school students. I am pleased that the Government will go further on this, and I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if not just 27 January for these reasons should be the right date.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e682	As I said in my answer, it might be a right date. But the government thinks it is important to have dialogue with all those who are engaged in this work, and see it in the context of the establishment of the Holocaust Centre in Villa Grande. Bondevik has mentioned a few moments that must be included in the picture for the date 27 January. It is clear that, among other things, must have contact with the Benjamin Hermansen family before we proceed with that date, since that argument has also been brought into this context. The government will have contact with many people to investigate what is the most appropriate date in this country, but we fully agree that it is both right and necessary to have a national label once a year around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e687	I see both of the answers as positive. The most important reason for this is, of course, that this is becoming an international day for the liberation of Auschwitz. My supplementary question will go on various types of instruments that you can use to mark such a day. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree that involving this in school, for example? in the form of a properly well-worked educational system, will there be measures with which one will discuss this with them, including challenging voluntary organisations to public labels in the local environment, and entering into a cooperation with the Church, which has proved to be an important part of this work? Is this among measures that the Government considers to be correct in connection with such an annual day of marking, which I understand the Government is in favour of us getting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e694	I will answer an unconditional yes to that. As far as school is concerned, the school has an obligation to conduct ongoing education and information on what happened during World War II, but there is an additional opportunity to do so in connection with such a marking. All the ideas that Bondevik now comes up with indicate that it would make sense to have a lot of people speaking here, because there might be a lot of good ideas about how to make such a mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e702	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative of Arvid Falch.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e705	On behalf of Steinar Bastesen, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘In the last Question Time, the Minister of Defence stated that coastal surveillance is and will remain a central task of defence. That same evening I attended a meeting where the central people from the Overcommand stated that this was not a task for the Defence. It was also said that surveillance of the territorial border should be carried out by the police and that they could even take over the coastal radar. If this reflects the position of defence, how is coastal surveillance, as the Council of State itself has said, being a central task, actually taken care of?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e714	The representative of Bastesen, here represented by a colleague, is constantly meeting officers who consider anything other than the Minister of Defence and the military leadership of the defence. It's a little surprising in itself, since we have a total of 11,270 orders in the kingdom. If, however, there should be questions in each question hour, there is another matter. There is no reason to assume that there is an ongoing attitude in the defence of the issue of coastal surveillance other than the one I have already notified to Stortinget. I would therefore repeat that coastal surveillance is and will remain a central task for the Defense. This is in any case a matter of government and big business. I don't rule out still meeting officers who think there's anything else, but here's the government and the Storting and the defense's military management. It is completely unknown to me that it would be a topical issue to leave to the police the responsibility of the Defence today for monitoring the territorial waters and sea areas. But I don't doubt that you might have met any officers who believe it. It is also not appropriate to leave the coastal radar chain to other stations. Maritime surveillance will continue to be a prerequisite for the defence to carry out priority tasks such as: sovereignty, exercise of authority and crisis management in our marine areas. Another instrument is the presence of appropriate forces and units. As I've talked about before, mobile devices also make a significant contribution to total surveillance. Today, it is largely the defence that has specific prerequisites and relevant resources for monitoring. In addition, other public agencies with special responsibilities in their sectors come. As other government councils and I myself have said here in the Stortinget, it will be necessary to coordinate and exploit the civil and military surveillance resources better. This will be assessed in the context of the work in which the departments concerned are now involved, inter alia. on the basis of the initiative of the Minister for the Environment, and I refer both to the response of her and other government councils on the same subject. In this context, it is natural to discuss the possibilities for the development and modernisation of current monitoring systems and how this can be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e727	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have a certain feeling that he is trying to minimize the problems that exist. The background to the question is to get full clarity in the command line and so that there is no question of how coastal surveillance should be conducted, and of who. The Minister of Defence has previously informed Stortinget that the status of the coastal radar chain in South Norway is poor and that in order to modernise and help it has been applied for infrastructure resources in NATO. This work has been in progress since the late 1980s. It is well understood that funds from NATO's infrastructure programme are earmarked for the need for military capabilities. If this is true, there must be a military-professional justification for applying for precisely such means.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e734	It has been raised beyond doubt that this issue has been under development. It was easier to get NATO funding for so-called infrastructure measures in a situation that was marked by the problems of the Cold War, and we are not going to trust that we sometimes manage to finance things that we then also needed nationally, in addition to the fact that the need was based on an allied analysis. But there are clear signals that NATO is not interested in participating with structural funds in an upgrade of the coastal radar chain in the south as before, and thus we have a financial problem of quite large dimensions. I have explained this earlier in my answers in the Questionnaire on the same subject, and this question we have to deal with, so that coastal surveillance – and there are many capacities here beyond the radar chain – becomes the best possible. But I must unfortunately disappoint the representative in terms of NATO's willingness to finance this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e739	I thank you again for the answer. But I would also like to remind you that the Minister of Defence has informed Stortinget that there is no military need for coastal radar in Norway. Is that how to understand that there would be a military need if NATO had funded 80-85 pst. for costs, but that it is not now considered to be a military need, alone for economic reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e744	No, I'm not aware that I've said there's no need for the radar chain. On the contrary, we have a well-functioning radar chain in the north, which is'shipshape' and updated and works well. There is a military need for it, and of course there is also a military need for a coast radar chain that covers the whole country. But we're in a different financial situation than we've been before, and it's seen on the Allied side as less urgent to participate in this than before. That is the problem with regard to the financing itself. But of course, we have military use of the coastal radar chain in the south as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e752	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘The Council of State and the Government have expressed great ambitions for the conversion of the public sector. In what way has the Council of State intended to involve the Storing in this process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e761	The Government’s Public Sector Renewal Programme was mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Labour and Administration for 2001 and received largely positive reception during the course of the treatment in Stortinget. The programme includes major reforms such as hospital reform, university and higher education reform, defence reform, police reform, etc., and not least the division of tasks between levels of government. In addition, reforms and horizontal measures targeting the entire public administration are coming in order to simplify and streamline this for the benefit of users, i.e. the population. These reforms are about exploiting new technologies to provide new services to users, such as: day-to-day management, faster information and responses and effective document and procedure. They are also about getting more transparent and simpler legislation and ensuring that we do not constantly produce new rules that are inappropriate for municipalities, businesses and individuals. In addition, the renewal programme includes the organisation of the administrative apparatus, so that resources are effectively used for the production of services and we have reduced internal administrative tasks, such as unnecessary reporting. With regard to the major reforms such as hospital reform, police reform 2000, university and higher education reform, defence reform, responsibilities and tasks between levels of government and several other proposals for major reorganisations, these will be presented as communications and/or propositions to the Storting. More are presented already in ours. I have announced that I will report to the Government on the status and issues of administrative policy in April, with a main focus on the government's renewal work. I hope that the Storting is very much involved in the discussions related to big business messages, propositions and the administrative policy statement. In addition, the Government’s long-term programme will be presented this spring, and the focus is also on public sector renewal. The size has a decisive influence on the way in which legislation, various welfare systems, the organisation of management and the allocation of resources are organised. My wish is that, in all matters relating to the renewal of the public sector, we should clearly – and even more clearly than we have now – be able to do – both the main points of view and the expected effects of our proposals. One of the main aims of public sector renewal is that we need to rotate the use of resources from administration to service provision. This is a major challenge that will result in transformations and reorganisations that can also lead to people having to change jobs. I would also like to contribute to various forums discussing the Renewal Programme and the fact that there are still new proposals for improvements. The program is not static but shall be a continuous process. We would like to contribute if there are committees/groups in Stortinget who want more information about the renewal programme or various themes within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e776	I agree with the Council of State that there is a need for change and renewal in the public sector to free up resources, so that the police can patrol more and teachers can teach more. I am pleased with the answer, and that the Storting will be so much involved. But I know that renewal is not that easy, not at all when it goes beyond units across the country, and it often does. Then the counterclaims come to the fore. It also comes this house for an ear, and then it can be easy to fold, because security is quite decisive to get to the conversion. Then I get busy if the government sees the possibility that the Storting will get a more comprehensive overview of what is happening in these conversion cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e781	As I have said, it is important that the Storting should discuss the general principles on which the renewal should be based. It's just the way to keep focus on the future desires, while discussing the different organisational changes as a consequence of the overall desires. Therefore, the long-term programme will be an excellent opportunity to discuss the overall focus, while at the same time looking at the individual organisational issues, which will in turn be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e786	I thank you again for your answer and I'm happy with that. There's one side to this that's already come out, and there's some community that's coming out very badly in several of these conversion processes. Does the government have plans for measures to help these communities, which may have government offices located in several different areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e791	There's two angles of incidence for this. One is that the State as an operator must contribute to the development of industrial activities in these municipalities. The second is that as a large public service user, but also as a large producer, the state helps to decentralize, i.e. outsource businesses from Oslo, and of course the most affected areas of the country need to receive the most support for such redeployment – of course, on condition that we can do things with the necessary skills to solve the problems. This is something the Government will focus on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e796	We're now going to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e802	This question from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Oil and Energy will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e805	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘According to the Haugesunds Avis 29 January 2001, there has recently been a sharp increase in the reporting of so-called adverse events on the North Sea installations. Both the Oil Directorate and the trade unions criticise the safety of the North Sea. Issues are raised both about the safety culture in the offshore sector and about the relationship between performance and safety requirements. What is the cause of this negative development, and what is being done to correct it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e814	Let me first say that I share the concern expressed here by the representative Einar Steensnæs, who has also emerged from the oil directorate and employee organisations. In recent times, the oil companies at their industrial association, the Land Association of the Oil Industry, have also joined in these concerns. The authorities believe that the activities on the pedestal in general, despite the negative developments we are now seeing, are still sound. The increased reporting of near-misses can be attributed to some extent to better reporting practices and can thus contribute positively to the priority of safety promotion measures. However, there is a general view that there is a real increase in the number of near-misses. Supervisory authorities have identified deficiencies in relation to regulatory requirements. The direct oil statistics on personal injury to the petroleum industry also show a flare compared to previous years. It is therefore important that action is now taken to address this negative trend. In my opinion, the reason for the negative development is complex. The processes of industrial efficiency and change have resulted in a lack of focus on health, environmental and safety assessments in some cases. In addition, one must also see these problems in the light of the general ageing of devices with equipment taking place. In the first instance, the industry itself needs to take the necessary measures to reverse this negative trend. However, the Oil Directorate has taken several initiatives to put the issue on the agenda, including: to attribute to the socket all rights holders of the licences their joint responsibility for the care of health, the environment and safety. A project has been launched to assess the development of the level of risk on Norwegian pedestal and to ensure a consistent understanding of the problems facing you. Furthermore, a dedicated partner forum, the Security Forum, has been set up to address and discuss various aspects of these issues. The Oil Directorate will also focus on this development in the supervisory context in the coming years. I trust that the Oil Directorate has the necessary overview and uses the required tools. Furthermore, the problems will also be dealt with more broadly in the context of the presentation of a separate notification on health, environment and safety in the petroleum industry this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e827	The main message to which the Council of State refers was, of course, initiated by Stortingen through its own Document No. Eight proposals, and this will be a very important document. But it's clear that developments on the base have been so negative that there's reason to use more immediate means. In fact, we don't have time to wait for a big message. The following evening's post refers to an intriguing criticism that Norsk Hydro gets from the Oil Directorate, which it says: «Existing procedures have not been complied with and there appears to be a work on the pipe deck that violates basic safety principles.» It is also stated in the same essay in the Evening Post: "Last year we recorded 16-17 near-misses where only millimeters and seconds separated death and life." I think this is such a serious indication of a lack of safety culture in the North Sea that I would like to ask the Council of State if he does not see the need to address this issue now by tightening up legislation and perhaps increasing control, in order to prevent these near-accident accidents from actually becoming accidents and leading to tragic outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e849	We are already in dialogue with the Oil Directorate on how best to use the resources we have to meet the health, environmental and safety requirements. Just this report, where the Oil Directorate is really critical of a company, makes it very clear how serious the Oil Directorate is taking development, and they are therefore willing to deploy the necessary resources. If we need regulatory changes and if we need additional resources to strengthen control activities, I cannot respond concretely to today. We will answer that first when we have carried out the complete review that we are taking as a preparation for the notification. But I can assure Mr Steensnæs that if there is a need to re-priorities to strengthen control, we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e858	I am pleased with the Council's response in the sense that this is being taken seriously. I also see the long-term strategies followed by the department, testifying that this will be taken seriously and thought through. However, I am more uncertain as to whether the immediate measures will be sufficient to avoid what may be a very negative development with – unfortunately – opportunities for catastrophic consequences in the North Sea. I would like to ask the Council of State, waiting for one to look at the legislation and assess the recordings that have been made, whether he also considers it relevant to impose fines on Norwegian pedestals for companies that do not comply with the legislation and the basic basic security measures, as the Americans have done – as I understand with a successful result?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e865	It is quite clear that if there are any enterprises that are unable to or will not comply with the regulatory requirements imposed by the supervisory authorities, the authorities must consider responses. There may be reactions to their future possibilities on the base, and there may also be reactions in the form of fines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e870	We're now going back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e876	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘Previous changes in tax laws and practices led, entirely unintentionally, to strongly negative consequences for the Norwegian externalisation. The last two governments have expressed a positive willingness to correct this. In the revised national budget in 2000, it was announced that proposals to amend tax laws at this point would be sent to the hearing in 2000. The situation is serious for several mission organisations. What time does the law change come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e885	A proposal to amend the tax law at this point will be sent to consultation during this month. The Ministry intends to submit proposals for legislative changes to the Stortingen in the autumn with effect for 2002. The consultation note will include the consideration of humanitarian organisations in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e892	I thank the Council of State for a positive answer. It's the way many people are waiting anxiously for the announcement of the bill change. If there is no change in the law that changes the practice, it will mean the night of the Norwegian external mission and the hook at the door of many voluntary teams or organisations that carry out social and interpersonal work in developing countries. Therefore, the matter is urgent, and I am very pleased that the Council of State now said that the progress plan is such that things will come to Stortinget during the fall, and that this may affect the coming year. However, this practice, which one has had a time, and which was unintentional, has led to the imposition of taxes by several equality offices. There's been a lot of extra costs. Since this was an unintended practice, could it be interesting to ask this supplementary question: will the Council of State consider giving retroactive effect to this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e901	Let me first say that it is not obvious that the changes have been unintentional, in the sense that there is a lot of evidence that past practice has not been correct in many contexts. For my part, I believe that we need to clarify what the legislation is like. That is why we are aiming for a review, and as I said, we are sending the matter to the hearing during this month. I also assume that what is being sent to the hearing will lead to a clear change, among other things. that, in accordance with such legislation, non-residents who are abroad for a specified period of time may be able to apply tax exemptions to employee income, regardless of whether they are taxable in the country of residence or not. I want to go. it is not expected today that the scheme will be applied retrospectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e906	When I used the expression unintentionally, I mean that this system had consequences that one at least hadn't thought about for mission organisations and for volunteer organisations that run out of work. But I know so well about these organizations that I know that they have taken advantage of a practice that is consistent with both the law and the regulations. I am well aware that both humanitarian organisations that operate on a voluntary basis and mission organisations are concerned because the practices we have have have incurred have incurred the huge additional costs. So I'm glad that the Council of State, as I understand his answer, is willing to consider whether it makes sense to give the notice of the amendment retroactively, so that if this has incurred large extra costs, which was actually not the intention, it is possible to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e913	We shall always be open to consider the question, but I will repeat what I said, I will not assume that it will be given retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e921	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘As of 1 July 2001, housing law relating to housing law will be exempt from VAT on administrative services. From the same date, stand-alone housing law and owner’s association are required to pay 24 pst. VAT on the same services. Is the Council of State in favour of such discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e930	The reform of VAT will enter into force on 1 July 2001. The VAT Act provides for exemptions for VAT for the turnover of management services of residential buildings under related housing laws, as the representative referred to. The exemption shall apply to housing construction layers placed on the market for housing law. The status of related housing laws is directly determined by housing law. Services that will benefit from the exemption are management services provided by the housing law to related housing laws in connection with the construction of buildings and the operation of the housing laws themselves. Construction will include services consisting, for example, of the preparation of a construction and financing plan and assistance for the conclusion of a contract between the contractor and the law of residence. In the operation of the related housing laws themselves, there will be services consisting of business conduct on behalf of the housing laws. With regard to the detailed justification for the exemption, I point out that housing cooperation has played an important role in the implementation of public housing policy. In June 1997, a sample was appointed to assess and, where appropriate, to propose revisions of existing legislation for housing and housing law. The committee gave its position in June 2000, NOU 2000: 17 Burettslovene. On the issue of the link between housing law and housing law, the sample expressed, inter alia: there is reason to believe that the management of related housing laws has provided the basis for the continuity of the housing co-operation. Housing is cyclical and has fluctuated considerably over time and between regions. The management tasks are stable and have made it possible to maintain a professional appliance in the housing units. Thus, the Finansministeriet proposed this exemption as the specific form of connection between the housing construction laws and the related housing laws, as well as the unfortunate consequences of the introduction of VAT obligations, could have on the management structure of the housing cooperative. The majority of the majority of the population, as they know, agreed to these assessments. I can see no basis for extending this exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e941	I have to say that the finance minister at all did not answer my question. I have reason to ask if he thinks I'm a complete idiot, because what he was reading up now was what was in the proposition about the VAT reform. I've read it. What I was asking is, does the Council of State consider such discrimination to be a good thing? It is also stated in the proposal that the minimum exemption for VAT on services should be allowed. Here you go away and make exceptions without having any special reason. Why are housing laws not treated in the same way as independent housing laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e946	The President just wants to say that the subject of 'Idiot' may not be parliamentary, but because the representative is talking about himself, it must be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e949	If the representative had taken the time to listen to what I said, instead of irritating himself about it, the representative would have registered that I justified why it is such a different treatment. As I said, this is due to the specific form of connection between housing and housing law, while independent housing law does not have a similar link. If the representative asks if that is reasonable, the answer is yes. If the representative asks if I believe that there is reason to extend it, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e954	Now it is suggested in NOU 2000:17 that there should be no strong link between housing law and housing law. It is proposed that this relationship be democratised. The Minister of Finance sees any reason, when they are punished for finding another business manager, for example. by imposing VAT, by addressing this and by democratising the relationship between housing and housing law? It goes without saying that when VAT is applied to equal services, it is actually a discrimination against self-employed housing laws. I do not ask for exceptions, but I think they should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. This means that VAT should be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e959	We're not talking about similar forms of organization. Let me quote three sentences from the NOU that I think are quite illustrative: ‘Construction and related building layers form a collective cooperative system.’ Further: ‘Collaboration in this form has played an important role in housing supply here in the country for more than half a hundred years.’ And on the other hand, ‘Many would argue that the integrated organisation, the link between building construction and civil engineering, has been an undertaking to carry out the tasks just mentioned.’ I agree with that. That's why I think we're facing two very different situations, which justify it somewhat different treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e982	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The need for local knowledge and guidance is also crucial in the context of a good equality service. It is now planned to close and merge the Equations Office in many municipalities, but it is clarified that the Equations Code will be ‘presence’. What is the term ‘to be present?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e991	In this context, ‘to be present’ means that the Equation Management will be represented in each municipality — either on its own initiative in the form of a district office or local office, or as a branch function in cooperative solutions such as: the social security system or within the framework of public service offices. In the forthcoming reorganisation of the equation management, it is particularly important that the tax rate facilitates continued good local service and guidance. For this reason, the Equation Management shall continue to be ‘presence’ in virtually all the municipalities of the country. The Tax Directorate assumes that 80-90 pst. of all public enquiries can be dealt with locally where the establishment is represented only by the function of the establishment. The reorganisation was presented to the Stortinget in the 2001 budget. A large majority in the Grand Duchy joined the proposal as they know it – among others. The Christian People's Party Group and the representative Holten.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1000	Being present in this context means having representation in individual municipalities, as the Minister of Finance now says. What matters to me, and of course to those who live in these small municipalities, is that professionals are provided with skills that enable daily operations, and not least that it is possible to get answers to the questions that arise. Personal equality is to the extent of a curative matter today. But especially in the field of business, there is one thing to be present with your own representation, but the question is: is it such that you have the opportunity to take on this information continuously to those who are nourished as a background?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1005	As the representative pointed out, we are facing quite a change in tax work. We all know about simplified tax returns, which more and more of us have the opportunity to use, and as the representative said, the equation of people becomes simpler than before, while in many other contexts we see a more complicated equation compared to business. There has been an important reason for the proposal to reorganise the tax rate that we presented to the Stortingen in the fall and to which the Stortingen, who is known to have agreed, gave its approval. The starting point is that district offices will be able to develop a specific competence within, among other things, various issues of nutrition, but also so that the district office and local offices can interact with each other in a way that is considered appropriate in individual cases, and also to assign specialised functions to individual local offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1010	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1013	The clock in my place doesn't work, so if I just get to quit?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1018	Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1021	Where one is represented, but does not have its own offices in the form of district offices or local offices, the vast majority of the simple functions can be performed – it is assumed that 80-90 pst. These interventions should be able to be addressed locally — while some more complex questions, including: in the context of nutrition, reference will need to be made to local and district offices. But an important prerequisite here is to have a distribution of local offices and district offices, so that in any case there will not be an inappropriate long way to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1026	It's probably the president who doesn't work, but now the state council got a little extra time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1029	I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1035	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I know, of course, that this matter has been dealt with in Stortinget. But it is nevertheless such that one must have a balance point between saving, making it effective, and being able to provide services that are needed. Then there are questions about whether a person might be in danger of being reorganized, which means that those in need do not feel able to cover them. Then the question is, have we gone too far in rationalizing and economics? And then the question again is, is it perhaps unfortunate in this area to go too strongly in favour of an economic downturn? Because that can lead to a lot of incorrect equations, and it's not for individuals or public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1042	Let me first make sure that an important element has been the need to develop more expertise than is the case today. If we were to do that without a reorganization, it would have required a significant number of new posts in the tax rate. Now, when you do this reorganization, you're going to be able to be around everywhere and have a very decentralised function, while developing the more specialized functions. Then I can assure the representative that, among other things, in Eastfold, there will in any case be a short way to get assistance from – to say – deeper character. But, as I said, the simpler functions we have to be able to perform in every municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1052	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘UDI will not grant a residence permit to a Polish nurse living in Bodø while she waits for the county to decide whether education in Poland can be approved. At the same time, Aetat is applying, for example: in Poland, by nurses able to fill the many vacancies in Norway. Will the Council of State ensure that the Polish nurse remains in Norway until the issue of recognition of her education has been resolved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1061	By law of 30 April 1999 No. 22 on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act decided to establish the Foreign Office. This decision shifted responsibility for individual cases out of the department. At the same time, the Stortinget decided to make changes to the department's right of instruction so that, after the entry into force of the Act on 1 January of this year, the Ministry cannot instruct either the interpretation of the law, the exercise of judgement or the decision on individual matters under the Foreign Affairs Act. This is the situation today, both in relation to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs. As Stortinget is well known, therefore, it is no longer up to the Council of State to decide on individual cases, neither on the outcome of the case nor on the question of access to stay in Norway pending the examination of the application. As I have stated on several occasions, the Department is working on simplification of the legislation so that it becomes more flexible, which I think is absolutely necessary. As you know, I have set up a working group at State Secretary level under the direction of State Secretary Øystein Mæland in the Ministry of Justice. This working group considers in particular the legislation relating to the recruitment of labour from abroad. It is expected that the working group will make its proposals during the month of March.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1068	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State is probably familiar with, there are many such examples. But it also illustrates that one public hand almost doesn't know what the other is doing. And here we get a picture of a situation where another public hand is in Poland and is going to recruit nurses. So in this particular case, we have placed in Norway a person with education that meets the requirements. If she is going through this now, she will have to go home to Poland to apply for a return to Norway. I wish the Council of State would take a stronger initiative to advance this work, so that we did not get these almost meaningless examples. Of course, we need strict practice. However, when action has been taken to recruit nurses for the many vacancies we have around the country, it must be possible to show discretion and have room to go in with individual measures when there is reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1077	As I said in my main answer, I cannot and will not comment on individual matters, because I can no longer instruct in individual matters, but in general, I agree with the representative of Kristiansen that it is too heavy as it works today. Therefore, in a very short time, I will come back with proposals for simplifications and regulatory changes to ensure that the overall duration of proceedings in the UDI is shorter than is the case today. As regards labour immigration in general, as soon as this working group has made its proposals, i.e. in March, we will come back with some suggestions on how this should be made much easier. I agree with the representative Kristiansen that, on a general basis, when we are in a situation where we are obviously within, for example, The health sector has a alarming shortage of labour in parts of the country, we should, of course, make it easier for those who come from other countries and have relevant education to be able to take up work at health institutions around our own country. But as I said, I'll come back with suggestions for that in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1084	I thank the Council of State for a positive approach to the matter. But it is assumed that from the government's side you are willing to grasp the bottlenecks you have, which are not in any form of a new date. These bottlenecks include: in the case of proceedings in the UDI. In the past, you have been on the track saying that you want to do something about the situation. I think there are many who will follow in the footsteps to see what the Council of State is taking initiatives in this area. The second question to the Council of State is: Will this be taken into account by ensuring that it is not just the province of Oslo that is going to sit and deal with these individual matters? Would it be possible to consider the use of other county offices to ensure that these applications can be dealt with within reasonable time limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1091	I can respond positively to the fact that in a very short time, simplifications in relation to the procedure to get the procedure down. I hope that will mean – that is the objective of it – that the procedure will take less time, and that it will make it simpler than it is today. In this context, we also consider whether it is possible to move something out of the UDI and let it be treated by others. All of this will now be assessed in a very short time, in the job that we are in the middle of. So on a general basis: positive signals – and I will return with immediate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1099	I ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The State aid schemes to the rehabilitation centres vary greatly from institution to institution. For the North Norway Kurbad Rehabilitation Centre, the allocation rules have helped to ensure that the spa receives very small State reimbursement aid compared to a number of other rehabilitation centres around the country. Why is there discrimination and is this a desirable discrimination from the state?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1108	Until this year, the funding system has been such that training institutions have received a fixed contribution rate from the population per year. Day of curfew. In addition, institutions could require a proportion of patients to cover their total costs. As there are large differences in the costs of institutions, the result was that the balances varied greatly, in fact from NOK 195 per year. 24 hours for the cheapest and up to NOK 626 per day. 24 hours for the most expensive. With effect from 2001, this amendment was made. The most important thing in this respect was that the prostheses were harmonised and, at the same time, reduced from an average of 220 kroner per person. daily for SEK 190 per month. 24 hours. This means an increase in government funding of about 24 million. kr for the current year. This is intended to provide better protection for the expenses of persons with chronic disease or disability. The institutions may no longer determine the excess of costs in excess of the maximum rate fixed by the size. The objective of the financial instruments is to provide institutions with a level playing field in order to provide patients with a good offer. However, institutions still have different costs, such as: may be the result of varying indebtedness. To cover these costs, the State provides support for contributions from the public interest. The rate of the contribution has now been fixed for each institution, on the basis of an estimate of the institution's costs. The size agreed to base the so-called ‘currency’ of the individual institution in 2000 on the cost estimates and thus on the 2001 contribution rate. At the same time, the contribution rate was increased by 2 pst. in relation to 2000. Nord-Norges Kurbad has subsequently come out with the lowest price of a course among the comparable training institutions. This is not a result of discrimination, but on the contrary of the equal treatment of institutions, based on those cost estimates. Then I have registered that the institution itself does not consider the contribution rate sufficient to ensure further operations, and can inform you that the department is in dialogue with Nord-Norges Kurbad on specific issues related to their financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1121	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a good review of the facts. There are, as the Council of State said, different costs associated with the various rehabilitation centres. What worries me is that there is a risk here that North Norway's Kurbad in Tromsø will be laid down because of the change in rules that has occurred, and that will be very regrettable. I'm assuming that the government might have looked at the NRK yesterday, where a patient had literally learned to go again after being paralyzed for well over ten years. So that job, based on the need for rehabilitation in the health care community, the Council of State knows for sure that is very important. Therefore, I would like to ask: will the Council of State and the Government ensure that there is more money in that pot in the revised national budget, so that the level of activity can be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1128	As I said, we are fully aware that Nord-Norges Kurbad has financial problems that we are in dialogue with the institution about and will seek to contribute to solutions to. I would say that to the extent that this is the problem, it is not the conversion of the scheme as such that is necessarily the cause of the problems, but the fact that the total cost recovery for both this and several institutions in the same category is currently difficult, which means that we are also reviewing the whole system again. I registered, in so far as the NRK notice yesterday as it was referred to here, but I would also say that it is probably related to a different issue than the one that has been raised here – not less important for that reason. I can't go into what we're coming into the revised national budget, beyond what I've just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1135	I thank you again for the answer. I had probably expected that you would not respond to what is included in the revised national budget. But it is at least positive that the Minister of Health is in dialogue with Nord-Norges Kurbad. Then I just wish, hope and believe that the Council of State is conducting such a dialogue that the patient offer is maintained. It is true that to meet the needs of the health care system, you must at least maintain the institutions you currently operate, and then I assume that the Council of State will take care of it. Having said that, I assume that government will ensure that treatment capacity in the future will not be reduced due to economic constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1142	I share Mr Korsberg's wish that we should avoid it, and see it as my task to do the best to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1157	The President cannot see that the representative of Skogholt is present. So we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1163	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Health: ‘According to the Evening Post on 1 February 2001, Norway lacks 3 700 nurses. It is open to foreign nurses who want to work in Norway. An English nurse authorised to work in all EU countries has received a refusal to recognise her education in Norway, despite her long and relevant experience. The Health Act provides for the public recognition of foreign nurses who have demonstrated the necessary skill. Will the Council of State ensure that this nurse receives Norwegian approval?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1172	Let me first remind you that the purpose of having at all an authorisation scheme for health professionals in Norway is to ensure the necessary competence and quality of health care. An authorisation shall provide for predictability and certainty of the holder’s specific qualifications. If four of the competence requirements for foreign applicants are met, the very purpose of the authorisation scheme may be eroded. Authorisation as a nurse is granted under the Health Care Professional Act. Nursing nurses with training from outside the EU must, according to the law, be recognised as a regular Norwegian education in order to obtain Norwegian authorisation. The matter raised by the representative Sjøli concerns an application from a person with training from the United States. The education system in the United States is very different from that in Norway, among others. by the fact that different subjects and training programmes are based on each other and can be combined in different ways. There are different educational pathways leading to the title ‘Registered Nurse’. The two most common pathways of education are either a two-year education at a college or a four-year education at a university. The first gives an ‘Associate Degree in Nursing’ and can best be compared with a Norwegian auxiliary nurse training, while the second gives the degree ‘Bachelor of Science in Nursing’ and is equal to the Norwegian three-year nurse training. Both courses give the title "Registered Nurse" after passing the State Exam. It also means that a title similar to an auxiliary care provider is usually not used. Only education qualifying for the «Bachelor of Science in Nursing» is recognised as a professionally equivalent to Norwegian education and provides the basis for authorisation in Norway without additional requirements. The applicant to whom the representative Sjøli refers has an Associate Degree because she does not have enough accredited courses to obtain a Bachelor's degree in the United States. However, according to the Health Care Professional Act, authorisation may also be granted on the basis of the fact that the applicant has demonstrated the necessary skill other than through relevant training. Relevant professional experience may to some extent compensate for shortcomings in the training itself. The current applicant has long professional experience from the United States in acute and intensive care. In addition, she has gained experience in care and care for the elderly through work in the care establishment in the municipality of Arendal. Health authorities have considered the applicant’s qualifications to be good but not sufficient to obtain automatic authorisation in Norway without complying with additional requirements. However, her professional experience will be weighted in assessing the additional requirements she needs to fulfil in order to obtain authorisation. Following the initial application, the Health Authority has received additional documentation concerning the applicant’s training. This will now be part of a review of the additional requirements necessary to obtain authorisation as a nurse. I would like to add that the new Health Care Act, which came into force on 1 January, also opens access to a limited licence when the requirements for authorisation have not been met, which the former Nursing Act did not give rise to. This means that the applicant may apply for a limited licence as a nurse until she fulfils the authorisation requirement. The applicant has received approval as a nurse in the United Kingdom, but this is based on a bilateral agreement between the two countries and is therefore not based on EU legislation. Also, her authorisation from the United Kingdom, which is based on education from outside the EU, does not imply that she will automatically be authorised in other EU countries. Finally, I would like to mention that Norwegian nurses will not receive automatic authorisation in the United States either. The additional requirements vary from country to country, but a minimum requirement has been passed and passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1193	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It may appear that there may be a solution for this nurse by reconsideration and that she will be instructed on what other qualifications she needs. But it's not just this case. It turns out that of 17 Filipino nurses who took the compulsory course in national nursing care last autumn, only one is approved – one was immediately approved, and he is a Norwegian national. The 16 others aren't, and there's reason to think that's the only difference. It seems that the documentation requirements are more stringent in us than in other countries. Philippine education is four years old, and the nurses I have just mentioned can all work in EU countries. Does the Minister for Health think this is reasonable? And does the Minister of Health think that the approval rules we now have are good enough? Or is that the practice of the legislation there might be something wrong with? I'm referring to the Filipino nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1202	Unfortunately, I do not know the matter to which it is now referred, so well that I dare to comment on it in concrete terms. But I believe that our legislation, our guidelines for approval and our approval procedures for foreign health professionals are now satisfactory. I myself am concerned that they are being practised with flexibility and, in individual cases that have been treated so far, have stressed that this should be done. At the same time, however, I am also concerned that we should not renovate with the professional requirements we impose on health professionals, including the requirements we make in this respect also for our health professionals, who take their education and have their professional experience in Norway. I can't believe that decisions are made on the basis of whether people with foreign education – whether they are the Philippines or elsewhere – are Norwegian citizens or not, but I'm going to go into that matter, of course. But I can't do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1209	I just want to stress that I am also concerned that we are going to have a professionally good education and practice for our nurses. That is also the intention of the Health Personnel Act, so that is exactly where we agree. However, it may seem that some of the matters being dealt with are not subject to the necessary judgement. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will now go back and look at what happened to the 16 Filipino nurses who did not get their approval after meeting one of the requirements of Norway, namely to review the national course for nurses. Because that's how we've reduced the requirement in terms of language, so it can't be where the problem lies. I hope that the Minister of Health can go back and see what was the reason for the rejection of the 16 Filipino nurses I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1218	I can confirm that I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1227	‘In the evening post on 30 January 2001, it is pointed out that private imports of American passenger cars are in fact prohibited. Reference is made, inter alia, to: e-labelling of lights prevents such imports. In the past, the approval of US cars from the German Car and Safety Test Organisation, TÜV, was also approved in Norway. This is no longer the case. Both Swedish and German authorities accept US approvals as equivalent. Will the Council of State take the initiative to introduce this as a mechanism in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1234	In Norway, we set the same requirements for imported used cars, regardless of whether it is a company or a private individual who imports them. Following recent contacts with the Swedish authorities, it has been confirmed that they make certain derogations from the European provisions on lighting equipment for cars from before 1995, especially in the case of private imports. This means that for some cars Norway has somewhat stricter requirements than Sweden. In contrast, when it comes to moving cars, they are technically approved in Norway in accordance with the 1942 motor vehicle regulations, which in practice means that it is almost unproblematic to bring moving cars from the United States to Norway. The German TÜV, Technicher Verwaltungsverein, has never had an authorisation under the Norwegian vehicle regulations, but has been and is still an instance that can issue documentation, i.e. attest that a particular vehicle meets different standards or requirements. Such evidence is still accepted. On the other hand, according to the Norwegian vehicle regulations, only the manufacturer of the vehicle can determine and guarantee the maximum axle load and the total weight of the vehicle. In particular, the question refers to the difficulty of obtaining the approval of lighting equipment on U.S. cars which are not built for export to Europe. It is a fact that the United States and Europe have different requirements for lighting equipment on cars. This applies, inter alia, to: the requirements for colour and slide. In some areas, there is little difference in requirements, but we know that European requirements, among other things. gives greater safety against glare from vehicles in contact with each other. The Directorate of Roads is currently carrying out a revision of the Norwegian lighting regulations, which will include: based on road safety considerations, the extent to which Norway should approve lighting equipment designed to meet US standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1245	It is good to hear that there is at least little going on – especially in the case of lighting equipment. The fact that the German and Swedish authorities accept American recognition as equivalent to the EU authorisation rules is recognition that the rules on the two continents as a whole are equivalent. In some areas, the US rules may be slightly better than the EU rules. And on the other hand, in some areas, EU rules are a little better than the American rules. Another reason is the recognition that the measurement methods are different and therefore difficult to compare. This doesn't mean that one way to measure things is worse than the other. The Swedish and German authorities have then also assessed the recognition schemes as equivalent. Is there any reason why Norway, which does not even produce ordinary cars, should have far stricter rules than car-producing countries such as Germany and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1256	As far as Sweden is concerned, as I pointed out in my main response, there is a difference between private imports and company imports, and if you look at company imports, the requirements are in line with those in Norway. It is therefore not the case that in general it is different in Sweden. All the while, here we will be faced with a balance between road safety and consumer interests, and it is quite obvious to me that it is precisely this balance that must lead to how we are going to practice this in the future. We have to open as much as possible, also in order for people to import cars for the US market, but then cars have to meet road safety requirements that it is reasonable to set in Norway, even on the basis of EU legislation. After all, it is not by chance that we have over time come into a better – although we lack a lot – road safety situation than many countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1263	In the case of e-labelled light, several tests show that US SAE-approved lamps provide a significantly better light than e-labelled lamps on the same cars. The difference is that American lights don't have a full knife-sharp dividing line on the dipped beams, but they give it about. 7 pst. more bedding lights, which in practice are not marked by the drivers. Does the Council of State think that the 250 million American car drivers – in the home country of the car, the United States – are dangerous to traffic when they run around without e-marked lights? And is it that the minister will make it a little easier with private imports into Norway and look at what the Swedish do?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1270	I do not feel qualified to enter into a detailed discussion about arcs and diffusers. However, I feel sure that a serious and proper review of this is being carried out in the audit carried out by the Road Directorate. I will not claim that the demands of other countries put people in a more dangerous situation than we do in Norway. I just notice that in the last 30 years that we have been doing systematic road safety work in Norway, we have actually achieved more than most. It has to do with vehicle requirements, it has to do with behaviour, and it has to do with this whole area of road safety. We're going to keep it at a high level in the future, too, but we're going to align it with what's reasonable in terms of consumer interests, so that we don't have rigid demands where there's no real need and justification for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1280	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1283	I will be asked the following questions: ‘According to Today’s Economy, 29 January 2001 Norway may be required under the EEA Agreement to terminate the system of parcels due to a notified EU Directive. The directive states that the car owner pays insurance and the annual tax until the car is wrecked. The system of parcels has worked well in Norway, which is underlined by the department director Ellen Hambro in the Ministry of the Environment. Does the Council of State consider that there are technical arguments to wind up the Norwegian system of parcels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1292	The Norwegian car wreck system was established in 1978. The system ensures that about 85 pst. by car wrecks are collected. About 75 pst. the materials contained in the wrecks are destined for recovery after the removal of special waste. The remaining 25 pst. are waste destined for landfill. These are very good results compared to other countries. While the strike fee is not earmarked for any particular purpose, the scheme can be considered as self-financing by the fact that the income from the wreckage fee together with the value of the steel from the wrecks over time corresponds to the payment of the pledge to the owners of the car and the subsidy to the collection and treatment system. In September 2000, the EU adopted a new Directive on car wrecks. The Directive is partly justified by environmental considerations and partly by ensuring a level playing field in the field of car industry in the EEA territory. On some points, the Directive imposes stricter environmental requirements than the current Norwegian system does. This applies, inter alia, to: requirements for phase-out of hazardous health and environmental chemicals in vehicles, enhanced requirements for treatment facilities and higher recycling requirements than currently achieved by the Norwegian system. Furthermore, the Directive provides for manufacturers and importers of cars to have the primary responsibility in the long term to pay for collection and recovery. Such producer responsibility is consistent with schemes already in place in Norway for different types of waste, including: waste electrical and electronic products, batteries, tyres and packaging. In order to ensure a high level of surrender of car wrecks, the Directive requires that it be free to deliver cars for wreckage and that vehicles cannot be permanently deregistered until a wreckage certificate is available. Provision is made for the use of temporary deregistration. The Wreck Certificate scheme allows countries to connect registration of vehicles with current charges. However, the Directive does not impose such a link. We are now assessing the implementation of the directive in Norwegian law. For me, it is quite clear that any adaptation schemes should not lead to worse environmental performance than we have had in Norway for more than 20 years in this field. At the same time, the Directive has stricter environmental requirements than we do in some areas, and the producer responsibility it imposes is in line with other Norwegian waste policies. Furthermore, a change from our public system could contribute to a clearer and clearer division of responsibilities. State pollution control, the SFT, which currently administers the scheme, has different roles in this regard, both as an economic operator in the conclusion of contracts with fragmentation plants, as a grant provider and as a concession authority and control body. In my opinion, then, there may be good professional arguments for adjusting the current system, while it is crucial not to lose the strengths of this system. In this context, it is important to stress that, in our assessment of the Directive, it is up to us to continue the mortgage system in addition to switching to a producer liability solution, if we wish to use charges during the deregistration period, as long as it does not seem to distort competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1305	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. When a case like this comes up – and there are many EEA issues that are partly very detailed – a trick can be made of what you have lost, because we have a system that the Council of State says has produced very good results, and then it may seem that we are not going to be allowed to keep it. In many areas when it comes to waste collection, we have not got into systems that work well. This arrangement might be the one example we have of getting something that works well. Then there's someone who thinks they're going to try this out. I find it very difficult to see that this has to do with regulating the competitive situation. There can be no problem for the car industry in Europe that we keep our own order. Is it checked whether we have to implement this Directive, that it is so-called EEA-relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1316	I agree that this was a relatively long and thorough answer. So there might be reason to repeat one sentence in the answer, that as far as we can see so far, we can keep the mortgage arrangement. So I expressed that in my principal answer. I also pointed out that it might be right to adjust the scheme even if it has worked well. It is probably also possible to make it work even better, among other things. in relation to the management of special waste. But it is also important, and it is up to the Ministry of the Environment to do so without losing the good side of the scheme. In order to ensure this, a very thorough process has been set up with the business community and with the relevant agencies in the near future to have a proper basis for evaluating any implementation, which can take place within the deadline I have been informed, which is April next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1323	There is an important difference between the two arrangements. Today, the person who leaves his car standing unused for a year or two and takes off the signs, fails to pay anything. There will be no reason for this directive to be implemented. This with the level of detail, the fact that business is charged with things that are very detailed and so detailed that it is completely unnecessary, I think a problem is one that makes you critical of what an implementation of the EEA Directive is. Another important principle is the principle that a nation should be able to determine its own taxes and taxes. And as far as I know, tax policy is exempt from the EU agreement. If we had become a member, we could have said that taxes and taxes should be exempted. But when, for example, they say that there is no tax or tax; there is something else; there is support for enterprises. I think that also based on that, which it has to weigh down, we have to be able to say no to this. This is a fee that we should be able to decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1337	I want to return to the main response when it comes to this with temporary deregistration. I said in my main response that the system opens up the use of temporary deregistration, as it is in the directive. I agree that we should keep the good sides, but I don't think we have to assume that we consider the current wreckage arrangement to be absolutely perfect. Good schemes can also have an improvement potential, and we need to carefully assess that. I see it as opportunities for improvement. We're going to take care of the good side of the system. It must be the guide for assessing possible implementation, as mentioned by April 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1347	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1350	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘In the Stortingens predatory debate on 30 January 2001, the Minister for the Environment was very vague about the views of the authorities on the notified killing of two wolf flocks. I assume that the Council of State will not turn around in this matter because of the reactions of Sweden or others, but will stand firm on what has been decided in the past, namely the killing of these two wolf flocks?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1359	On 19 October 2000, the Directorate for Nature Management issued a pre-announcement on the killing of one to two family groups of wolves if certain assumptions were met over the winter. One of these assumptions was that the stock of wolves in Scandinavia can continue to be viable even after a possible fall. On the basis of the objective of at least eight to ten family groups of wolves, the government has now set future administrative limits. Both families in Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal are outside the limit set for the establishment of couples and family groups. On Monday, February 5, this year, the Directorate published a decision on a family group of wolves, the Atndals, and a possible re-virtual couple, the Imsdalsparet. Both of these rivals are outside the administrative limit adopted by the Government on Friday 2 February of this year. It is announced that the decision of the Directorate will be appealed to the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry will take a final decision on the matter when the complaints are available. The stock development of wolves suggests more active management over time. Good management will involve both active killing and active protection based on the administrative limit currently laid down. Felling becomes an instrument that will be used more frequently, both to control total population and to extract individual individuals from wolves. The Minister for the Environment also announced in the big news that it is appropriate to open up the search for a licence for a wolf outside the administrative boundary. On the other hand, strict protection will also be provided for a limited number of family groups of wolves within the administrative boundaries, in order to help ensure a viable wolf population in Scandinavia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1370	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which in a way was a positive response to the one flock and the people who live in that area, but unfortunately not to the other flock, which is called the Cup. It has been said that there will be some funds – 8 million. I have heard about prevention. But I think this is shameful, no matter how small or large the amount, because even if they get money, it can't help dampening or taking away the predatory fear of the people who live in this area. As a result, they are greatly reduced in quality of life. So here's the follow-up question: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the quality of life is not reduced for the people living in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1377	As the representative Bredvold says, the decision of the directorate states that the family group of wolves on the Koppelgfühlen should not reach common ground. It is added on the directorate's side that Rendalen municipality is allocated 8 million. for preventive measures also for the next season, and for the Rendalen to be delegated the power to adopt decisions concerning future grazing seasons. The Directorate shall state the reasons for its decision, inter alia: that it is necessary to maintain a certain room of action with regard to withdrawals, both in relation to conflicts on the Swedish side and in relation to potential conflicts elsewhere in Norway at a later stage. A complaint to the decision taken by the Directorate will, of course, also be dealt with in the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1382	I thank you for your answer. After all, this case can go out for a long time, as it is now likely to go to the courts — with its consequences, both for the predators to share, and not least for the population in these areas. It has also been said a lot about the relationship with the Swedish authorities. It turns out that Sweden is a little divided in the view of this with predators, but I see that Sweden has had a great influence – at least it is my claim – on this decision. Could that be right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1391	We have a dialogue with Sweden on these issues, including: in relation to the wolf population, but I would like to stress strongly that the predatory policy pursued by the Government has its basis in the report on predators and in the government's independent and self-decisions. Of course, this is also the case where we are faced with clear contradictions of interest. It is important to get these counter-interests on the table, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important and right to make a complaint procedure based on the legislation we have. It would also be wrong for me to make an assessment of both the decision taken by the Directorate and possible complaints about these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1406	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1419	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1425	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Although the Stortinge has favoured competition in the dairy sector, TINE Norske Meierierier still has an approximate milk monopoly. There are few private operators in the dairy industry and the stand-alone Q-meierien have significant financial problems. What measures will the Council of State consider in order to accelerate the creation of competition in the milk market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1434	This government and former governments, based on the Workers' Party, have welcomed the creations that have taken place in the dairy sector. Since 1995, it has been a clear objective to make the best possible provision for new start-ups through adaptations to the rules we have for the milk sector in agricultural policy. In practice, this has been an adaptation to a requirement that schemes provide a level playing field for all actors – both cooperative and independent. It should not be surprising that it seems so far to be difficult to establish competition in the milk market where we have had one major dominant player for decades. In milk processing, there are significant economies of scale and TINE benefits from well-established production within a wide range of products. This leads in many ways to greater demands for creativity and untraditional investment in the new players than we have seen so far. The Q-meieries, which the queryer quite specifically mentions, also have a clear cost disadvantage through small scale operations. However, from 1 July 2000, we have chosen to compensate for this by setting up a grant for small consumer milk dairies. The Gardsmeieri and Gausdalmeieriet annual grants of 3.75 million. kr. For a production of about 5 million litres per year, this represents 75 øre per. litres of processed milk, covering a significant proportion of the cost burden. The grant shall be financed through the price equalisation mechanism by an increased fee for the other actors. After a few years of experience from the new market organisation for milk, we see that several of the independent actors are struggling economically – mainly the Q-meierines. There have been allegations that this may be due to incorrect rates of taxation in the milk price equalisation scheme, which is a sub-scheme under the market organisation. This has been promoted both in the form of an appeal before the courts and as a complaint to the agricultural administration. Furthermore, it is noted that the established framework conditions do not provide an adequate basis for entry into the dairy sector. The case that is being dealt with in Oslo City Court, it is not possible for me to comment. The complaints from the Q-meieria are for initial treatment in the State Agriculture Administration and have not yet come to the Ministry. When this is said, I would also like to say that it is obviously a problem that several of TINE's competitors seem to have problems getting to profitable operations. It is still a goal for the Government to have competitors for the cooperative market regulator companies. In the light of this policy objective, I will then again consider further measures to help achieve this objective. So I'm working on the matter now. I have no clear conclusion at this time, but I realise that such a conclusion must be drawn as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1445	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was satisfactory so far. The ministry is working on this, with the intention of finding solutions. This is not only about these small Q-meyers, but it is about getting competition in this area in Norway, because the Stortinge has said so, and because both consumers and producers are likely to have earned it. This was also aired in the spontaneous question hour, so I don't have any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1455	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Criminal gangs, often made up of unorganised youth, are increasing. These create fear and anxiety and put life and health at risk. In the past, such gangs were a problem in the big cities, but today there are many problems and exercise of power in many cities. How will the Government help the police and other agencies to improve their response to recrime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1464	Efforts to combat criminal gangs have been a priority of the police for several years. However, this has not been able to prevent a negative development in which the extent of crime is increasing, and the violence carried out by these gangs is becoming increasingly severe. Although recriminalism has been particularly linked to the larger cities, – as the representative of Kaland points out – there are also examples of gang problems and violence in many smaller cities and towns. It is therefore necessary to maintain and not least coordinate efforts to combat the development of recriminalism. It is important that experiences from police districts that have had the most repeat crime are passed on to the others. The establishment of the Police Directorate has increased the possibility of coordinating police action on a national basis, and the Police Directorate informs that the fight against gang and violence crime is one of the areas where the Directorate will actively engage in support and coordination actions. Police districts have good local knowledge, but in order to be ahead of developments, it is necessary to focus on ongoing threat assessments and measures adapted to developments at all times. By setting up a central strategic unit of analysis in the Police Directorate, the police will now receive better information on developments on a national basis, while the directorate's staff will be able to assist the individual police districts in their work. It is important to take action before the frequency has evolved and stabilised. Experience shows that a broad-spectrum effort is needed to prevent recriminalism. This implies that the police must both actively contribute to preventing recruitment to the rest of the world and must provide rapid responses to those who commit such crime. Prevention efforts must be made through ongoing cooperation with parents, schools, child protection and other local authorities. In order to succeed in this work, it is necessary not only to make everyone involved with children and young people responsible, but also to have an ongoing critical assessment of the impact of the various measures taken by the police. In St.meld. No 17 for 1999-2000, Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime, which is an overall plan to combat crime among young people — including drug-related crime — emphasises the need for cooperation between parents, different public authorities and voluntary organisations. Cross-jurisdictional cooperation, attempts at youth contracts, projects against recriminalism in youth settings, arrangements for concern talks and the development of parental networks among immigrant youth are now being followed up on a national basis. In addition, the Government is working on proposals for further action against child and youth crime, but in particular with a view to developing better responses to youth, including those under criminal sanctions. Against those who are already involved in recriminalism, rapid and firm responses are important. Cases against young gang members shall be investigated expeditiously and the prosecution authority shall give priority to these cases. Increasing the pace of criminal proceedings, in the criminal chain, is of great importance, and a number of measures to further reduce the length of proceedings are under follow-up. Among other things, the Government has proposed that legal time limits be set for police handling cases involving young people under 18 years of age. Police districts shall have procedures in place to ensure rapid response to violence. Law changes in recent years have improved the police’s ability to intervene — in particular against the organised part of the rest of the world. It is important that we now experience the police's use of these provisions. This is actively followed up by the Advocate General. In my view, the sum of the measures I have mentioned is crucial to improve the response of police and other responsible authorities to recriminal crime which, for good reason, causes serious fear in very many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1483	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good response, and I would like all of these measures to be implemented as soon as possible. I believe that many of the young people who join criminal gangs are often out for excitement and economic gain. But now we see, unfortunately, that the gangs also carry out racist power to an increasing degree. Many of these young people are not part of organized activities such as: sports teams, cultural teams or non-profit organisations. I also think it must be an important goal for municipalities to increase monthly efforts towards children and young people in the future. There are two things that have shaken me up in later times. The one is the report we saw on TV some time ago about Arve Beheim Karlsen, who was hunted out in the 11th in Sogndal, and who was literally bullying, and had been bullying for a long time. The other thing I want to mention is for a man in Herey who some time ago was knocked up by a dozen young people when he tried to split up two people that he wanted to try to calm down. They actually used iron rods and balts, and the man was dying. We can't have it like this in our community, so I hope that the punishments and reactions have to happen faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1496	I agree with what Mr Kaland points out. There are two main strategies that we must pursue. One is that the reactions must come quickly. Then we can also have a more reasonable response, and reactions that may seem understandable to the young people involved. It's a very important strategy. The second strategy is to prevent and prevent recruitment, to prevent further development. And there the municipalities are very central. But I would also like to point out the importance of good cooperation between the police and the local authorities. The approach developed on Nordstrand in resolving the far right environment where — which was precisely a close cooperation between police and urban areas in that case, but in other places it would have been with municipalities, schools and parents — is obvious a model that can be drawn not only from the experience of right-wing extremes but also from other types of youth environments where we need to look at each individual youth and be able to draw that youth out of a very negative development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1505	What the council says here, I'm completely in agreement. I think it's very important that a prisoner picks up these kids who fall out of school, who may have a weak network at home and who like to have problems in the home situation, and who get bullied. We have a challenge when it comes to helping that particular group and coming in at an early stage. Now I see that the Council of State Gieske has gone out and said that this with power, bullying and human dignity will come more strongly into the school. I hope that is one thing that they can work together on, so that the school can also be better informed about the developments that are taking place in some communities and cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1512	: I am still – fortunately, I kept on saying – agreeing with the representative of Kaland in what she describes, and would remind you that the work being done in a working group between departments involves both the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, precisely because this is a concerted effort. There is not one area alone that can solve the problem for a child or a youth who is on the wrong track. More needs to be done, for that young people relate to many and not just to one of the departments’ responsibilities. That working group is committed to finding better responses to child and youth crime, and that is precisely the case with a wide range of thinking and responses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1520	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In June 1999, the Stortinget passed a law on temporary changes to the police and criminal proceedings law. The law extended police access to investigate whether persons carry weapons in public places and would last for three years. The law school was to prevent criminal offences, and it opened up to the police. It should also have a safety-creating and preventive effect. Has the temporary law been used by the police, and what is the experience with it so far?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1529	The new provision of Section 10 of the Police Act was intended to strengthen police control, primarily in the context of ex ante planning of actions in order to detect weapons in public places in situations and in places where violence is experientially exercised. This provision entered into force on 1 September 1999 and was given as a temporary law with a period of validity of three years. Its purpose was, among other things: that experience could be gained during this period, both in terms of the practicalisation of the determination and the effects achieved. The illegal carrying of weapons in public places, linked to situations in which violence is easily perpetrated, has been a major problem in the major cities. Pre-planned actions by the police have therefore been mainly relevant there. An evaluation of police experience with the new provision will be carried out before the end of that three-year period — i.e. by 1 September 2002, i.e. in one and a half years. By circular of 30 August 1999 to all police districts, the Ministry of Justice presented the practice of the provision. Police high school provides training for students in the use of metal detectors, and the police's material service has sent out information on the acquisition of the equipment in question. It is available per year. the frequency and contexts in which the provision has been used. The Directorate of Police reports that information will be collected for the year 2000 and that six-monthly reporting will follow-up. The evaluation of the determination itself will start in the autumn. On request, police in several districts report that the criminal environment now appears to have focused on police enforcement of the knife ban and the increased access to visitation. Despite extensive activity by the police, it is reported that people carrying knives or other weapons are less likely to occur in the street. However, it is too early to say whether this trend will continue. Larger police districts report that people and gangs from criminal environments still have weapons and knives readily available and get them brought to them when they think they need them. The evaluation of the provision will ensure that such factors are also taken into account in the assessment of experience. The police directorate also informed that Oslo police district during a prepared operation on the 26th-28th weekend. In January of this year, 228 persons were surveyed and seized one firearms and two knives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1546	I thank you for your answer. I think it was very positive that the Directorate of Police will provide information for the year 2000 and follow-up with half-yearly reporting. Then we have a greater chance of seeing how the change we made actually works. Feedbacks I have received show that the use of a metal detector seems to be difficult – at least it is claimed. Will the Council of State follow up and investigate whether the acquisition of metal detectors is satisfactory, whether they are being used, and whether there is a need for adjustments along the way, and then overall — for example, what is defined as a ‘public place’?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1555	I will include the elements mentioned by the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen, just to be sure that it is included in the evaluation, so that the police districts are encouraged, if they have any views on it, as part of the evaluation we need to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1563	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the wake of the riot crime in Oslo, Dagbladet reports on 24 January 2001 that ‘the criminal gangs are armed with the teeth’. While law - abiding citizens are subordinate to one partly rigorous weapon law, such as the law of arms. So the criminals are armed with guns. This is nothing less than a mockery of the state of law in which the Norwegian people do not want to find their way. What will the Council of State do to disarm the gangits?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1572	Let me start by saying that I share the concern of the representative Hernæs regarding the arming of criminal environments. With regard to the representative Hernæs' reference to the Arms Act, I would like to stress that this is a very central legal instrument in the fight against illegal possession and use of firearms. As other laws, this applies to everyone. Police districts are required to give priority to combating violent crimes and other crimes that endanger life and health. Oslo Police District, particularly affected by recriminal crime, has this as its top priority. Since 1998, the district has had its own strategy plan to combat recriminalism. From the same time, the police district has continuously developed and updated an internal threat assessment, which also deals with the so-called gangs. The main points of the plan are zero tolerance in the case of regular and criminal offences and close follow-up to the members of the gang. These days, the police are developing further strategies to address the problem. The purpose of the monitoring provisions of the Arms Act is to ensure that firearms are only disposed of by persons who are fit and that weapons are kept properly. Although the law has not been able to prevent the illicit trafficking of weapons and the entry of criminals into it, it is a necessary and important tool to prevent illegal possession of weapons and the placing on the market of weapons. In 1999 changes to the police law allowed the police to search for persons when there is reason to investigate whether the person is in possession of weapons. From the Oslo Police District, questions have been raised as to whether access to visitation should be further extended to the search of housing and car of potential criminals, without requiring any cause for suspicion in the specific case. This will be considered by the Government. The prohibition of the carrying of knives in public places, without a legitimate reason for carrying knives, was adopted as the Penal Code § 352(a) in 1993. The criminal offence was imposed in fines or prisons for up to three months, having regard to the fact that this was at that time the penal framework of the Arms Act for the possession and acquisition of some illegal weapons, such as: Spring knives. In 1998, it was also criminalised to carry firearms in public places, although the weapon was legally acquired, registered and unloaded. The penalty was imposed on fines or prisons for up to two years to provide the necessary signal power and preventative effect. In this context, it would be appropriate to consider whether the penalties provided for in Section 352(a), i.e. the provision to carry a knife, should be raised somewhat. The same applies to Section 385 of the Criminal Code, which imposes a sentence on fines or prisons up to three months for the person who intervenes in a knife or other particularly dangerous tool during a fight. I will also mention that the Government of Ot.prp. No 21 for 2000–2001, which was promoted to Stortinget just before the end of the year, suggests a means of implementing a national weapon name path. The aim of such an amnesty will be to control the large number of unregistered weapons located in private homes that constitute a potential for the leakage of firearms to criminals. As I mentioned in my answer to questions from Vidar Bjørnstad in the Questionnaire on 31 January of this year, we have good experience from a pilot project on weapons name path that was carried out in 2000. The policy instruments of the police must be assessed on an ongoing basis from the point of view of crime. With this in mind, I have asked the Police Directorate to draw up an overview of the needs that the police have registered, so that I can assess any new proposals for law and regulation improvements. The Directorate of Police has also indicated that there has already been contact between the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Customs, and that it aims to cooperate on measures to better prevent the illegal introduction of firearms into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1598	I would like to thank you for your answer, which was good, especially as a general review of the Arms Act. Zero tolerance is unfortunately little to suggest, if we're going to believe newspaper headlines and what the police say. So if we could try to be a little concrete here: have the police used the new powers they've been given? And then what is the result? In other words, is there any sentence? If the answer is no, is there anyone who is at least accused? And if the answer to that would also be no, is there at all any checks done to prevent these unworthy conditions that we have on the street? That's what's behind my question, that we just can't figure out that there's a lot of newspaper headlines, which I think are very comprehensive about the facts, that criminal environments are equipped with weapons in large quantities. In other words, what has happened in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1605	I just mentioned in my reply to Åse Wisløff Nilssen that checks have been carried out under the new provision of the Police Act § 10, that Oslo Police District carried out a planned action by the weekend of 26th-28th. They found two knives and one gun after checking for 228 people. What the police are experiencing is, as I also said then, that many criminals no longer carry a knife or a gun on them, but they keep it elsewhere and get it brought to them when a situation arises where they think they need weapons. It makes it harder for the police to find the weapons by controlling people and makes it more topical to assess what the Oslo police district has been doing, and which I have asked them to do more precisely, namely the need to possibly search the car, possibly looking at the rules on house search to find weapons. I cannot answer in respect of the number of persons who are sighted, accused or convicted under the provisions of the Arms Act or, for that matter, the Criminal Code on the illegal possession of weapons, because I have not specifically investigated that. Of course I can do that. I feel relatively sure that there are as charges or points of sight in relation to more people who are both accused and convicted of criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1614	Thank you again for your answer. I want to appreciate whether we get that overview in a suitable form. But this opens up because the situation is almost more serious than what we can imagine. Let me first say that what's behind my question is that we have a big advantage of Norway having an unarmed police. And the question is, do we see any chance that we can maintain such a regime in Norway? Or are we going to have to go that way that weapons have to meet with weapons, that is, an escalation in the use of weapons, which will result from it? In this context, it is true that if the criminals have responded to the new law by complying with it and do not have the weapons so that the funds we have can be used, we have to, as the Minister of Justice suggests, go another step further. But I assume that we can agree that it must now be a goal to prevent it from being the criminals who carry weapons, while the police go unarmed, and that this leads to the need to arm the police as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1623	I readily agree with the representative Hernæs that criminals should not carry weapons, and that we should get rid of the weapons from the criminals, whether they are knives or firearms. On the other hand, I am not sure that it is necessary for that reason to imagine that you need to have an armed police force. I'm pretty sure at the moment that we don't have to. I can refer so far to England, which is another country that has long had an unarmed police force, and as per. Today, it is obvious that there is more crime than Norway, but they maintain their position on unarmed police. I therefore think that the important thing for us is to find good tools to actually manage to take the weapons that are here illegally, whether it's a visit or a weapon name path, which is two very different instruments to get guns out of circulation. That's what we should focus on, and so far clearly say that we don't want any weapons from the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1633	I find it highly necessary to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Incarceration in Norway is getting more and more crowded, and the trend will hardly turn around with the first, due to tougher crime. All over the country there are only 2,900 prison grounds. A range of the lack of space is longer time to get into the settlement of prison sentences. Does the Council of State wish to take action and further explore the terrain for the expansion and rental of prison sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1642	Criminal services in prison, i.e. In prisons, there are 2,923 ordinary places, and there is a remainder of the sentence. 1 400 Judges. It corresponds approximately to the capacity temporarily closed as a result of rehabilitation at the Oslo and Stavanger prisons. The closed department at the Oslo prison will be reopened next week. Without these temporary closures, we probably had no significant judgments. However, the long-term capacity forecast shows the need for more prison sites, among other things. was presented in the Annual Report on Criminal Welfare, which was discussed by the Stortinget in October 1998. We aim to realize this by, among other things. a new building in Eastfold. In the case of Eastfold Prison, it is mentioned at the latest in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. This is being planned for too much time. As regards the question of the rental of detention centres, it should be stressed that there are, in particular, prison sites with a certain level of security. The requirements to be met for such disposal sites mean that rentals are not very realistic in order to meet that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1649	I thank you for your answer. I don't think it was very uplifting. The Minister of Justice refers to the fact that there is closure due to resuscitation in prisons leading to large settlement cows. The actual situation is that in the past there have also been large settlement cows before the refurbishment started. This is a trend that has been almost sustained over several years. That is what the Minister of Justice was also talking about, about. In Norway, 1,400 people were convicted in pay queues, and it is difficult to see it as a good criminal policy situation. Today's situation means that there will be a long time between the criminal act and the punishment for it. In fact, the sentence that meets as a propitiatory sentence is simply let go of it again because there is no room for them. There are no detention centres. Especially bad is the situation of those who are going into closed settlements, and those who have received the most serious convictions, who are released because there are no detention centres to recover. I have a general question: is this a relationship with which the country's Minister of Justice can settle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1660	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Stag, that we should not have cows for restitution, and that it is a major problem that they are cows for restitution. The question is, how do we best solve it? My answer is that we get a lot further into the solution of this by solving what is the main reason why the problem has arisen, namely that we have temporarily closed two prisons. And as I said, one of these prisons is opening next week. The second prison, in Stavanger, opens during the year. So the situation is going to be completely different. But it's, as the representative Stang also describes, the unfortunate situation that people who have a serious conviction do not come in quickly enough. Therefore, serious judges are given priority first in the queue, precisely because it is worse for them to wait for a long time than for those who do not have equally serious judges to wait for something longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1667	I thank you for your answer. I have the feeling that the Minister of Justice is once again trying to make the situation pink. I just want to point out that central people in prison say that lack of prison places is no longer a challenge, but simply a problem. In practice, prisons are staggering. For approx. A year ago, among other things, Department Director Jan Kato Förstad of the Ministry of Justice's Department of Criminal Affairs that the Ministry of Justice has seen a worrying increase, and we need to see what we can do about the situation. The pressure is greatest in Western and Eastern prison districts, precisely because of what the Minister of Justice was also involved. The same House believes that the increased pressure on prisons will not get along with the first. These are statements from the Ministry of Justice. This is important, because compared to last year, the pay queue has now increased by 500, for reasons which the Minister of Justice was also involved in. This suggests that the Ministry of Justice is almost paralysed. It would be thought that it would be necessary to look for solutions in other options for the settlement of the settlement queues. The Council of State will take the initiative to go new ways to clean up these issues, including: look at the possibilities of rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1678	I have now twice tried to say – via the President – to the representative Stag that I do not disagree with the problem description. It is a serious problem that we have cows. What I do not agree with the representative Stang in is that there is some magic wand solution to this. We're opening a new department in a week, and we're reopening in not too long in Stavanger. Then the situation will look quite different from what it's doing now. I don't think there's any solution to renting prisons. What we primarily need are prison sites with a certain level of security. There are detention centres with ring walls around, many locked doors, etc. Unfortunately, not many of these types of prisons are suitable for prisons, which we can rent on short notice and which can solve the temporary situation that has arisen especially while rehabilitating the two prisons that are undergoing rehabilitation, and which fortunately soon open.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1688	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1691	«The oil conference at Sanderstølen shall be held behind closed doors. The conference, which brings together participants from the oil and energy industries and from the authorities, is referred to as a ‘discreetly deferred’. The organizer is a foundation where an official from the Ministry of Oil and Energy is a member of the board. Others from the department are also involved on the organizer's side. Does the Council of State see that there may be an unfortunate mix of roles when officials from the Ministry attend the organisers of this conference?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1698	Let me start by saying that it is a separate foundation that is responsible for the Sanderstølen Conference. It's not the responsibility of the authorities. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is not among the founding fathers. The Sanderstolen Conference started in 1973. The aim was, and is, to ensure the transfer and exchange of knowledge and information on problems and trends in the petroleum sector. This was important for Norway in the construction of a Norwegian petroleum environment. It is still important because this industry has a central role in Norway and the international aspects and frameworks affect us increasingly. From this point of view, the Foundation has considered it important for international leaders, observers and politicians to be brought together with the Norwegian environment; the conference also includes participation of wholesalers. This creates a valuable meeting place for central premises suppliers for the development of the industry. I share this vision. It is beyond doubt that this provides a rich opportunity for dialogue, knowledge transfer and reflection. This makes the conference a meeting place where people are brought together in the stream of information and assessments of the topic. The conference doesn't get mysterious because if it's not open to participation from the press. The Foundation has come to the conclusion that this is the most appropriate format. I want to add that we must always be open to dialogue and acquisition of new knowledge. We will be open to the exchange of information with international industry and other environments. This gives us the opportunity to present our views and assessments and receive similar ones from others. This gives us a diversity that we take into account in the assessments we make in our own development of the business. So to the question of whether it's a concern that people from the ministry attend the conference. I believe that such participation is an important contribution, and cannot see that neither participation in preparation nor in the conference itself involves an unfortunate mix of roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1713	I share the opinion of the Council of State that such a conference may be of great importance, that it is important for one to have such a meeting place. I am disappointed that one is not more willing to think in principle and problematize the fact that people who also contribute to the granting of concessions and to the design of framework conditions participate in a way that creates confusion about one's being on the organiser's side, and with it an interaction and interaction with companies, as happens in this case here. The conference could keep its meaning even if there had been a distinction between the organizer and the authorities that were much clearer than the case today. My question is whether the Council of State will help to review similar mixes of roles, where authorities and other actors come together in a way that may be unfortunate, in order to identify driving rules that can be used in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1722	I refer to my first answer, where I said that such participation was an important contribution to the conference, and that I could not see that participation in preparations or in the conference itself was an unfortunate mix of roles. And for that reason, I don't see a need to go through it once more to get to the same answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1727	Does the Council not see that when there are the same persons involved in creating framework conditions and who are involved in granting concessions, there should be a neat relationship, which does not involve them in joint arrangements in the way in which this is the case? At one point, Norway was at a stage in which one should learn about this industry and connect it. Then a scheme could be natural. Now Norway is a leading country in this area, setting standards that one also tries to obtain from other authorities. And a support bar in such a standard is neatness between those who run on the steering side and create framework conditions, and those who operate as operators. And wouldn't it be a contribution to such tidyness that one also got it in this area associated with this conference? So a little bit to the role of the authorities in relation to the conferences that are going on behind closed doors. This is also the case with the Sandefjord Conference, where officials from the Ministry of Oil and Energy are sitting on the organizer's side of a conference held behind closed doors. Isn't this kind of secrecy contrary to what's meant by the Public Health Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1736	I agree without further delay with the representative of Kvassheim that it is important to have neat relations. But I am unable to follow the representative of Kvassheim in that it is unfair to join the industry and others in creating a conference for exchange and debate, information and assessments. It is very important that the Norwegian authorities have the opportunity to do so, precisely in order to be able to pursue a sensible and orderly policy towards this industry. In addition, I would like to say: I do not see that it is contrary to the disclosure law or the disclosure principle that in some situations, as far as the disclosure law also provides for by way of its exceptions, there is a need to have meetings where the press is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1743	Question 22 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1750	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Teachers are important as knowledge intermediaries and adult role models. What will be done to increase recruitment of general and professional teachers with a minority background to Norwegian school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1759	I agree that it is important to get more teachers with a minority background in Norwegian school. To achieve that goal, we need to see how we can increase the number of young people with a minority background, and we need to see if those who enter have special difficulties in the course. Due to the general case of the search, all qualified applicants are admitted to many studies. Therefore, applicants with a minority background may start more than one location if they meet study competence requirements. Different paths to general study competence and access to admission on the basis of real competence provide real opportunities for admission for applicants with different backgrounds. I can mention that the Department has given funds to the University of Oslo, so that they work on various recruitment measures in cooperation with representatives of immigrants. Experience shows that a number of students with a minority background have difficulties in completing higher education. In the general teacher’s study, this is not least the case in the Norwegian language. In the case of teacher training which requires Norwegian as a compulsory subject, only one target form of examination is required for students with a minority background. Training institutions must deliberately work at recruiting minority-speaking students for higher education as well as at facilitating these students to a greater extent than they have until now, completing the studies. The newly established general teacher training at the upper secondary school in Buskerud will, among other things, include: pay particular attention to the multicultural aspect, including the recruitment of minority speakers. Funding has also been given to teacher organisations that have cooperated with, among others. the colleges of Agder and Bergen offer to qualify language teachers who have worked in school for a long time without an approved education. The University of Oslo, which has the largest number of students with a minority background, has developed a course in Norwegian, based on their knowledge of the difficulties they usually encounter in the studies. This is offered in addition to the usual studies. Students who do not have Norwegian language as their mother tongue are encouraged to take this course. Students who follow it have better performance than the others. In general, the Ministry is working to increase recruitment to the teaching profession. Bilingual youth is an important target group in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1774	The Council of State and I have a common understanding of the importance of what is involved here, both in my question and in the response of the Council of State to me. I'm familiar with what's happening at the universities in Oslo and Buskerud, and I'm also familiar with the actions that are being undertaken, among other things. to grant a derogation from Nynorsk. However, I perceive the situation this way, after, among other things. to have been in a number of Oslo schools, that there is a desperate need to increase pressure. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if he wants to take the initiative just to bring together people who would have an interest in increasing recruitment, going through an enhanced or what I would call a renewed recruitment plan? I ask the question on the basis of my previous experience with what has been done to recruit the Police College, and much of what the Council of State answers here is similar to that. But my question is, will the Council of State go to the extraordinary step of bringing together the fires in this area, so that you can get an enhanced pressure in the recruitment process?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1783	I am sensitive to all good advice on what can be done to increase the recruitment of the teaching profession in general and in particular to recruit young people with minority backgrounds. Now, the situation is slightly different in relation to the teaching profession than it is in relation to the police profession because the study is open in practice, so there is no need for quota arrangements or other things to increase the intake of minority youth. You just need a bigger search to get it done. We propose to implement in the spring some kind of information campaign on recruiting for the teaching profession in general. We took important steps on the pay side last year. Now we want to follow it up with information work, and here I think it is a good proposal to pay particular attention to recruiting young people with a minority background. Getting good advice in such an information work, maybe from the environment itself, I think we're going to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1790	The Council of State and I share the view that there is a difference between the School of Police and the School of Teachers, but there is one field that should be the same, and that is the recruitment, and at the School of Police you have been active in recruiting. And that's just the activity of the recruitment that takes me. My background to express myself in this way is that I am, among other things, when I have visited very good schools in Groruddalen in Oslo, schools that have a very good relationship with the community, which operates student businesses, have experienced when I have asked teachers in these schools whether they have ever said what was said by teachers on my way in life, namely that we need you for this job, to have met with wonder. I think someone at some point has to say from the beginning, the benefit of immigrant youth, young people with minority backgrounds, that we need you. The message is perceived otherwise; e.g. at Bredtveit in Oslo there is a large collection of immigrants applying for real science, because everyone is going to be a lawyer and a doctor. So they've perceived the norm signals. I don't think you want to perceive the signals without someone actively pushing the recruitment to the bottom of the school floor. And that was the background to the question I had in my previous comment to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1797	I fully agree that perhaps even the teachers in high school and high school can do a lot to promote the teaching profession. In the wage struggle that has been going on for many years, the impression may have been that teachers themselves have not been able to recommend the teaching profession. If it's been like that, at least I think it's now turned around. We've got a new mood and a new status signal around the teacher's profession with the paylift we got last year. I fully agree with the representative Dørum that we should go out and say that immigrant youth is needed in the teaching profession. We also have to do a job of creating a real multicultural school, and we have, among other things, set up a centre for the development of multicultural school competences. In my view, it is worrying that young people with a minority background, even young people born in Norway, are much less seeking higher education than young people with a Norwegian background. So here we have a great job to do — generally in the recruitment of higher education, but especially to those professions where it is so important, such as the United Kingdom. the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1807	I will ask the following questions to Minister of Church, Education and Research Trond Giske: ‘If the cancer plan is to be implemented, there will be a high demand for, among others. radiographs. University of Buskerud, Department of Health in Drammen, wants to initiate radiograph education. They have entered into an agreement with the Radium Hospital on professional and practical cooperation and have full support of the Southern Health Region. On 18 December 2000, the University of Buskerud applied to the Ministry for the establishment of basic training in radiography. This matter is urgent. Will the Council of States contribute to a rapid and positive response?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1816	There are four colleges that offer radiograph education: the universities of Bergen, Oslo, Sør-Trøndelag and Tromsø. In addition, training is provided temporarily in Gjøvik. Thus, education is established in two places in the East. I know that several colleges want to establish radiograph education. My department has sent the application from the University of Buskerud to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. There it will, among other things, be assessed against the other applications. I can therefore hardly predict any decision in this matter now. One of the measures proposed in the Cancer Plan was to clarify the educational needs of radiographs and radiotherapy therapists. The Norwegian Institute for Research and Education, NIFU, carried out such an analysis and completed its report in December last year. In view of this, the need for further establishment of radiograph training will be assessed. In the light of the health authorities' recommendations, I will decide on the location of any new study offer for radiographs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1825	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the matter has been sent to Health Minister Tore Tønne, from Drammen, so it should at least provide a basis for hope. But when the Council of State presented its government budget in the field of education in the fall, he was probably aware that Buskerud is the state with the lowest number of higher education places, compared to the population. This application from the upper secondary school in Buskerud refers to a subject area where the needs will be great in the years to come. In order for a clear implementation of the Cancer Plan, it is necessary to train 400-500 new radiographs, including radiation therapists, during 2003-2004. On 1 December, the College of Buskerud and the Radium Hospital signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of radiograph training. This means that the university has access to professional guidance, expertise and practical areas. I therefore ask the Council of State to clarify this matter quickly, in order to implement the Cancer Plan, it is necessary to train more radiation therapists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1834	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding. Tore barrels are drums, he's not from the Dram. He is temporarily resident in the Drammen, but still has his heart in Trøndelag and his dialect in reserve. The training in Buskerud is close to the heart of this council. That was, I would say, one of the winners of the 2001 state budget. Among other things, we have now also opened up general teacher training at the University of Buskerud, with which Groningensretten Helleland will certainly be familiar. I promise to do mine so that this matter will be resolved quickly. But I think it is important that we have a comprehensive plan of education in the field of health, and here the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health plays an important role. So when they come with their settings, I will conclude in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1843	I expect that from one drum to another it is possible to convey a message even if he is living in the Drammen. What is important here is in a way to clarify how quickly the Ministry of Health is going to work out this matter. And when the Ministry of Church, Education and Research then comes into contact with it again, I expect that the agreement between the Radium Hospital and the University of Buskerud will be emphasized. I also expect that attention will be paid to the fact that a unanimous health region of South has gone into the process of establishing this education in its health region in Drammen. I ask the Council of State to pass this on to Tore Tønne, and that he also assess this in the further handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1852	I feel confident that all the elements that the representative of Greece is now presenting are things that will be included in the Minister of Health's assessment. I can also promise that we will have communication between us in this matter – there are some who may suspect us that it will be really slow when there are two trancers who are responsible. But I would like to stress that even we troupers can be impulsive just as we get to think well about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1860	I allow myself to ask the following questions the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «Minister of State Persson ensured that «A book on the Holocaust in Europe 1933-1945» was published and distributed to Swedish families and schools. The booklet was a response to the lack of knowledge among Swedish youth about the Holocaust. In the evening post of December 18, 2000, Prime Minister Stoltenberg is referred to as saying that we have a duty to talk about and to light up what happened when 6 million Jews were exterminated in Nazi gas chambers. Will the Council of State contribute to the translation and Norwegian adaptation of the booklet for use in Norwegian schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1869	I'm very concerned about the developments we've seen in the far right environment in Norway over the last 10-15 years, and how this environment can attract some very young teenagers. The school's value base is based on the Training Act and the general part of the curriculum. The attitude-building work is going to permeate all the activities of our schools and educational establishments. Work against racism and ethnic discrimination requires a continuous and long-term effort by the whole community. The school's action against racism and ethnic discrimination must not become a segregated measure, but measures covering all pupils. It means, therefore, that anti-racist and discriminatory attitudes should be part of the school’s ordinary activities. There are different programmes and measures aimed at combating racist attitudes and ethnic discrimination between children and young people. The Council of Europe Ministerial Conference in Kraków in October 2000 recommended in the Final Declaration an annual anniversary of holocausts and victims of ethnic cleansing, genocide. The United Kingdom has already agreed to this and has chosen 27 January as a holocaust memory day. In this context, the Minister of Education of the United Kingdom has developed a guidance booklet for use in schools. I am also familiar with the Swedish book to which the representative Marthinsen refers in his question. As one of several measures to combat racism and make the holocaust known to all children and young people, I would also like to assess whether this book should be translated and adapted for use in Norwegian schools. Through the State Education Offices, I now collect information from municipalities and county municipalities about what is done in primary and secondary schools to prevent and combat racist attitudes and ethnic discrimination. When I get an overview of it in a short time, I will consider what further measures may be needed from me. I want to repeat that I see the work on these questions as very important in school, and will do what I can to make it an integral part of the ordinary work at all schools and for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1882	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I do not draw a second in doubt the good intentions of the Council of State in this area. I can promise full support for the work done to counteract the trend we have seen among Norwegian youth in recent times. It may well be that there may be other booklets or books that might be more suitable, but I don't have an overview of that. What I know, however, is that the Swedish Social Democrats are very pleased with the paper that has been initiated and published. I may recommend the Council of State to talk to its Swedish party trap to hear about the experience gained with the use of this booklet. It will be important that we get into school something that is common to all, but that also meets the criterion that we should not forget what is behind the process that leads to similar or similar forms of discrimination, and not just discrimination, but real destruction of community between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1891	I am aware of the important work that Sweden has done in connection with, among other things. The large holocaust conference, which was held in Stockholm for some time ago, and the work that has been followed up after that, among others. I referred to the final declaration at the Ministerial Conference in Kraków, where I myself was able to attend and discuss these issues. In Norway, for example, there are many different activities aimed at this. We have the white buses, which do an important job of informing young people about the genocide that happened to the Jews during the Nazi regime in Germany. We also have many other activities and learning arrangements that involve the same thing. There are certainly different ways to organize this. It is possible that the book referred to by the representative Marthinsen is a contribution in this way. I want to have a review of this, and then evaluate the different measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1900	I thank you again for the answer. I have recently been confronted with a situation in a school where students — in this case one special student with Jewish mother — have been excluded from community because in the same class there were students with a different religious background and cultural background, suggesting that some of the attitudes that have been before still live in Norwegian school today. So I just want to encourage the Council of State to look very seriously at this situation and make sure that we don't get a starting point on the old rush towards the Jews to then take the jumpboard over to the situation today, which is about other people; also the Jews we have to look at in today's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1907	I'm 100 pst. agree with Mr Marthinsen that this must not only become a historical knowledge, it must also become a knowledge one can put into reality today. Genocide is not something 50 years back in time. We have had a genocide in Bosnia, we have had a genocide in Rwanda, and elsewhere in the world there is ethnic discrimination and, in fact, ethnic extermination. This is one thing that young people must be able to put into their own reality. But then I think the most important thing that Norwegian school might do in terms of creating tolerance and respect for different religions and people with different ethnic backgrounds is let our children go together in a common public school. Muslims associate with Christians, associate with Jews, and associate with humaneists. There's one reason why I'm very sceptical about an increase in the number of private schools based on different religious backgrounds, that we sort the children in different schools. I think it is important that they go together, that they have a good school leisure system, a good kindergarten and a good school where they have a community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1916	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1930	There is reason to give commendation to schools and teachers for the will and interest there is in trying out new forms of learning. There is an incredible amount of exciting pedagogical and organizational new work in Norwegian school. What we know, however, is that many applications to try out new forms of work take a very long time to deal with. We know that there are applications that have been in the department for nearly one year before they have been dealt with, and this cannot continue. The ministry has to take this more seriously and get the treatment time down, so that the trials that schools want to start are going on. Schools and education are easily conserving because we all bring with us some experiences that we become defenders of. This applies to teachers and parents alike. I often wonder, too, that as many as often have bad experiences with the school do not create a rebellion. It often leads to a resignation, a resignation that goes on that this was something we had to go through, and therefore our children also have to go through it. So the rebellion, the desire to try out new forms of learning, often does not come from parents, but it comes from school and teachers. Much of the development work is a result of a school recognition that we have to do things differently. There are emergencies and problems that have driven the change processes. For my own part, I also have to admit that I have been a member of flat structures in terms of organisation. But we've seen a lot lately that change work depends on us having leaders who take responsibility and go ahead. The experience shows this largely unambiguously. If we don't have leaders at a school who take the challenges, a person often gets stuck in old traditions. Most children come to school with joy. Starting school is exciting, it's something new to look forward to. We've all come up with a ballast with assumptions. If we go back and look at my generation, which started at school in the late 1950s and early 1960s, we had as information channels one radio channel, we had NRK, we had maybe a local that came out sometimes a week, and in between we had national newspapers. Together with the People's Library, it was the sources of information we had when we started school 40 years ago. When today's kids start school, they have a dozen TV channels, and they get information from them. They have several radio channels, and they have a drum of local and regional newspapers from which they collect information. Everyone must realize that these children cannot be met in the same way that we were met. We cannot offer them the same arrangement that we were offered when we started school. This concerns both organisation and how we facilitate the learning work to be done at school. We have to think about learning in new ways. We have a plan system, curriculums that in general are clear about what the goal of training is. Training shall stimulate formation, search for meaning and fundamental values, stimulate creativity, give emphasis to practical work and skill, give basic knowledge, stimulate cooperation, and raise awareness of nature and the environment. These are the objectives of the general curriculum. Already at the transition from the general part of the curriculum to the subject-specific plans it misses for us. The specifics are detailed both in terms of what to learn and not least in terms of the time to learn. There will be a caricature when it is planned that, within ten years of primary school, one student will have had 2,033 hours in Norwegian — it is stated in the curricula, 2,033 hours in Norwegian, one will have had in 10 years. It doesn't say 2,000 or 2,030, but it's set at 2,033 hours in ten years. In nature and the environment, the hour is 741 hours. It's not 700 or 750, but 741 hours in ten years is what they're going to have in the natural sciences. I know that this number is a product of some variables, but it's going to be wrong when this becomes a regulation and this is going to control what's going to happen in the individual school. It's going to be wrong for several reasons. First of all, we don't need exactly the same time to acquire the material and make it ours, what's the goal of the curriculum. For example, a student may: needs more than 2,033 hours in Norwegian, but he may not need 741 hours in science. So central government is going crazy, it's not opening up the freedom that individual schools need. It also locks firmly a way of organizing. Learning shall take place in classes in work sessions in 45 minutes, which is the best way to organise. Regardless of what to do in a class, working sessions of 45 minutes are the form to be used. This disincentives schools and does not stimulate educational discussions at individual schools. In addition, the whole collective agreement and working time arrangements are based on this way of thinking about organisation and learning. The teacher's working hours are defined in reading duties for the various subjects where the job sessions are 45 minutes. It is clear that this is going to be wrong! We're afraid to trust the schools. But we have to do that! We have to dry out trust in the schools, and the curriculum has to be given a form in which we outline the objectives, the main objectives and the main points, for the different subjects, and then each school has to be free to choose the forms of work and organisation. In this way, we can get an exciting and a newly developed school. It's not just the curriculum that sets these limits. We have knowledge of some other factors as well. In the evaluation of Reform 94, researchers and reports pointed to a number of factors that limit the development of content reform. And what they pointed out was, first of all, that the traditional textbook prevented new development. The textbook is based on the curriculum of the subject. It's unfortunate, because this is a pass on to teachers and students in the search for teaching material. A textbook writer has chosen and fabricated a subject that will also govern work in each class throughout the country. Now it's time to throw out the traditional textbook. Get it out of school! Targeted plans may make it easier to get rid of the textbook. We've had new opportunities. We have the Internet, we have to produce thematic books. In combination with other educational materials, this will be the best way for teachers and students to seek the knowledge and information they need. And the starting point for all the learning work will be the curriculum in the subject. Secondly, we know that evaluation and use of grades prevent new ways of organizing, new ways of thinking about learning. We have a rating system, a rating system, which assumes that the students work in a class, that they sit for 45 minutes on each of their desks, and when they've been sitting there for 2,033 hours in Norwegian, they're going to have a test based on that way of organizing. And it's clear that when teachers and students know that this is their reality, this is their starting point, that's what they're going to measure in relation to, we don't get to new learning forms, which are necessary if we're to be able to change the way we work. So the character system, the way to evaluate students, prevents a development in which a person adopts new forms of learning, where a person uses new ways of organizing work. So my challenge to the Council of State is: Is he willing to take these challenges, which are dealing with the curriculum, which is about looking at the assessment system, the character system, and which is about throwing the textbook out of school to stimulate the use of other teaching and learning materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1960	The question from the representative, Mr Rikvam, is twofold. Firstly, he asks me what initiatives I want to take to enable schools that organise learning to take new forms of assessment. Secondly, he asks me what steps I want to take to get more schools to think learning according to the curriculum. The questions interfere with each other, and I have therefore chosen to give an overall explanation. The curriculum is the compulsory basis for the training. With a view to improving training, many schools are trying to organise work in new ways within the scope of action and the flexibility provided by law, regulation and contractual arrangements. That's not new. However, reform 94 and reform 97 have contributed to the participation of more people in such a trial. As a follow-up to St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, Towards richer objectives, municipalities and county councils were informed that there will be a need to carry out experimental and development work in order to gain more knowledge of the factors most relevant to the quality of learning. The Ministry was challenged to step up efforts, innovation and innovation locally. As a result of the work that has been done since then, the Ministry has received and approved a number of applications for local trials requiring deviations from the Regulatory and Contracting Agency. Many of the applications concern the reorganization of teaching and the testing of alternative assessment schemes. The tests differ in form and content. The elementary school curriculum emphasises that the main purpose of student assessment is to promote the learning and development of individual students. It is also a central objective in the higher education curriculum. The competence of the students shall be assessed in relation to the objectives of the curriculum, and new forms of examination have been developed for the completion of the examination in primary and secondary education. The new test forms involve changes both in content and in organisation. Students are more able to solve the problems at their level. Students are given the opportunity to prepare, cooperate and use tools. In professional upper secondary education, multidisciplinary forms of examination are open. The new Learning Centre shall be a national centre for the education sector with tasks and professional responsibilities in development, evaluation and information. The purpose of the establishment of the Centre was, inter alia, to: that work on curricula and assessment can be seen in the context. In cooperation with the education offices of the State, the Centre shall assist municipalities and counties in the work on quality development. The learning centre shall further develop take-off tests and examinations in order to contribute more to training in accordance with the syllabus. Development of support materials for assessment with and without grades and for final and en-route assessment in the training course are part of the Centre's work. The learning centre shall also carry out tests and evaluation of key test and assessment forms, including: using ICT. Further work shall be carried out on the testing of alternative forms of assessment and testing in vocational training. The learning centre shall follow up and continue national and international work to assess the framework for the content of the school and the learning outcomes for students, including: by developing and using indicators. Local development and testing are also ongoing in order to develop and test new forms of organisation and evaluation in schools. In order to develop systematic experience and knowledge, this work must be further developed and strengthened. It is important to help schools to see and exploit the space for action provided by law, curricula and other regulations and contractual arrangements. We often get applications to the ministry to start trials that are not actually at all trials, but are fully feasible within the current legislation. This may indicate that the knowledge of the flexibility already provided in the legislation is not good enough. I have started a review of existing assessment schemes in primary and secondary education. My primary concern is to assess whether there is good enough coherence between the assessment systems of the two training teams and whether the link between training objectives, content and assessment is well enough ensured. In view of this, it is important to systematise and follow-up experience from the various trials currently undertaken. I think we're often very good at starting a series of trials and implementing them, but too bad to draw their experiences and spread them across the country. As part of the establishment of the Learning Centre, it was important that the Centre should have as one of its tasks the dissemination of these good results and, where appropriate, the poor results, so that not everyone needs to make the same mistakes. As part of the implementation of Reform 94 and Reform 97, a number of measures were taken at national level to strengthen the competence of school students and teachers to implement the new curriculum. In addition, local development work and trials are focused from the year 2000. The development of a high-quality school will be central in the coming years. The main task of quality development is to strengthen the benefits of training for students, and the development of the school should therefore have the student at the centre. State investment in quality development continued and increased in 2001. Key instruments for promoting good schooling and training are coordinated efforts in the development of skills, development, testing and evaluation. Key areas of activity for quality development in primary and secondary education are flexible organisation and varied use of working methods to ensure appropriate training for all pupils and apprentices. We aim to continue this work in the period 2001-2003. Let me also say that the new working time agreement for teachers who apply from the current school year will contribute to more flexible organisation of the school year and school day. The agreement provides more space for local development work and more space for creativity and better use of resources. Cooperation with teacher organisations will be included in an action plan up to 2003. As part of the Government's work on the renewal and simplification of the public sector, I consider, inter alia: simplification of the regulatory and contractual framework. State initiative for further development and experimentation with a view to improving the quality of training will also be relevant. By increasing the capacity of schools to act, we are increasing the opportunities for creativity, flexibility and adapted training. However, I would like to emphasise again that within the current regulatory and contractual work there is a significant room for action. Media has recently mentioned a number of good examples of reorganization of school day. I am happy to see that so many schools use the opportunities available, create a more exciting and better schooling day, increase learning outcomes and create the school of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e1994	This was little visionary – terribly little visionary – and does not address at all any of the most basic problems that we have in school today. That's the actual curriculum and the way to organize and think about learning, the way we've defined the curriculum objectives, the way we've defined the organization, an organization with then and so many increments of 45 minutes over a decade, which are the basic problems we have. It wasn't the Council of State inside at all. When it comes to evaluation, there are many trials. That's right. We've changed our assessment system. But the basic problem is that we have a system of assessment that thinks learning in a certain way, that it should take place in classes of 45 minutes, six times a day, five days a week for 38 weeks in a year. That's the problem. As long as we do, and have an evaluation system, assessment system, which has it as its starting point, and based on it, we don't get to make the changes that are necessary to create a new, exciting and creative school that takes the students and the teachers seriously. As I also mentioned in the introduction: the entire working time system is based on the same system. If we're going to do something about both the working time system, the character system and the evaluation system, the assessment system, we have to do something about the structure of the curriculum and the way in which the curriculum defines the learning objectives – that is, we have to take the individual school more seriously, give it greater freedom, promote the diversity that exists, foster the enthusiasm that exists among students and teachers, because, as I also said in the beginning, the changes that have occurred, the exciting projects that take place in school today, are the result of teachers and students saying that the old way is not working. We have to grab some grips. And that's this kind of grip we're going to stimulate, to which we're going to love, and for which we have to facilitate and give opportunity. It is going to be wrong when it takes a year before schools applying to test out new forms of organisation, new pedagogical methods, get answers. These are tests of such a scale that they have to be approved by the Ministry. We can't have that. It can't be like that. Then we can at least be sure that we will kill what may be of enthusiasm and glow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2008	Let me first say that if it's taken a year to process an application, it can't possibly be my fault, because I haven't even been sitting for a year. But, of course, I'm going to make sure that applications that come in to us for trials and reorganizations will be treated as quickly as possible. I suspect the representative Reikvam to have written his second article in this interpellation debate before he heard my answer. I can't possibly see that this is a little bit visionary. In that case, his own post must also be slightly visionary, because at the point after the point in what the interpellant has in its interpellant, we're already trying. He refers to non-educated school, and that's the headline because projects are being carried out with uneducated school. New ways of organising training are being carried out in Norwegian schools. Untraditional teaching methods, which do not teach for 45 minutes six hours a day, are carried out in Norwegian schools. We had new working time agreements last year. I would like to go further with the teacher's organisations, but I do not know whether the teacher's organisations fully agree with the representative of Reikham to remove the reading obligations. But to carry out experiments in that direction, I'm very much in favour. New forms of examination and assessment, which the interpellant has in its interpellant, are being tested in Norwegian schools. Further efforts are also being made to improve the consistency between learning and assessment. So at all of the points that the interpellant has in its interpellant, there are trials in Norwegian school. I should have liked to have seen that several attempts had been made. But I would like to use this opportunity to actually praise both Norwegian schools and Norwegian principals and teachers for the development work that is being done. I almost think that those who are at the grassroots in Norwegian school, who work daily on these questions in the classroom or in other types of rooms – because it's not just in the classrooms this happens – are really the most creative and inventive in that way. It's not strange either, because they're the ones who best mark the coercion as one class, one teacher, one trade model that we've inherited from ancient times, really is. I will do everything in my power to facilitate that you can get the yes-stamp on the test applications. I will also make every effort to ensure that we take initiatives from the Ministry and the Learning Centre to further develop Norwegian school. But I do not agree with the black paint of the situation that I perceive that Reikvam in his second post was in the middle of it. On the contrary, there is a lot of exciting happening. We've been too bad at spreading the experience we've had in experimentation, so that others can take part in the positive experiences that take place around the school. There we have to be dramatically much better. I hope that the new Learning Centre can help, and hope that new technologies with websites and networks for teachers, for school students and for schools can contribute to this. But basically I think it's doing a good job. We're gonna get better. I'll contribute to it. But the situation is not as gloomy as the previous article might suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2038	Today, a quarter of the population is related to the education sector, and many experience joy by learning. We have come a long way in the democratization of education, but there are also many who have not been able to provide the wood of knowledge. They experience defeat and are marked for the life of sad experiences in school. Many elephants have lost their desire to learn, and at the same time they have lost confidence in their own abilities to learn. How are we going to create an education where the challenges of meaning and motivation are better? How are we to implement a pedagogy and a school where physical, emotional, intellectual, practical and social development is equal – and where practical work, creative activity and spiritual work have the same respect? In life outside the school, students will meet – and have to solve – complex tasks. We know that when we practice pedagogy with a focus on working across the different disciplines, we achieve more goals at the same time. The traditional Latin ball was built around a catheter with one-sided communication in 45 minutes of balls and one-way feeding of knowledge. Similarly, the workshop model was based on master learning without further theoretical understanding. The centre of gravity must be shifted from traditional knowledge dissemination to facilitating learning situations. As part of such a development, teacher training must be permeated by an attitude where responsibility for own learning, project-oriented education and cooperation is central. Nor does it prevent each learning process from being guided by assessment and examination forms. The question you have to ask is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is Is a professional division and a graduated rating system, e.g. an obstacle to group work and project-right teaching, or an obstacle to seeing the possibilities of all children? The focus of the new training law, the general part of the curriculum and large parts of basic school curricula and further training is in stark contrast to speech characters and exams and examination forms. If this is to be changed, it requires cultural change and change in methods and working methods. Law and curriculum tell us that learning is teamwork, while tests and exam forms are based on cheating. The examination tasks therefore need to measure more closely the results of cooperation, creativity and the ability to resolve conflicts. It is important to find more suitable ways to measure your children's understanding. Elevar and parents are entitled to know how they develop purely professionally, personally and socially on the basis of an expected level of age and maturity. Such an assessment will be more nuanced than an abstract system. Appraisal of how students use their abilities is important both for the individual, the parent and the teacher. It is good that there are now many good attempts around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2059	A good school is essential to ensure that everyone is able to participate in the knowledge society of the future. The most important school can do is stimulate curiosity. That's this ability we're going to spend the rest of our lives. It also makes it fun to learn. Learning must be made so interesting and enjoyable that learning does not go away. The representative Reikvam points to evaluation schemes as a framework factor for learning work. SV has long believed that evaluation schemes control teaching. But there are also other, perhaps more important, factors that control the learning environment more. Let me just point to three: breakdown by subject and timetable of class sizes of the working time contract I fully agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam. One of the most important things the Storting did when we adopted a new training law was to adopt a general test paragraph. The Central Government and State Council Lilletun encouraged School-Norway to start experimenting with the reorganization of the learning environment. Several attempts were made, and I feel that the Council of State will continue this work. And now there's a lot of excitement going on around school Norway. It is particularly important that the focus now comes on the development of youth. We need a substantive reform and adaptation of premises to new forms of youth work. It is important that we now have a public debate on school development. Governments need to profile themselves as development-oriented. Today, I want to challenge the Council of States in two areas. First of all, would the Council of State consider taking a debate on whether it is proper resource use to have a 10th grade exam? Is the correct resource usage when we know that we're spending a lot of resources organizing exams and censorship? when we know that the exam takes the teaching and working hours of the last school year? when we know that in-flight national tests can ensure an equivalent evaluation? and also when we know that the significance of the grades as ranking criteria has been reduced as a result of that 90 pst. are the first to be elected by the students in secondary school, and are the position characters also reflecting more forms of work and effort than the nature of the examination? The Christian People's Party will keep the grades in school, but maybe we'll manage with the stand-up characters and not the use of resources on exams? Secondly, will the Council of State grant incentives to pilot projects? As far as I know, today we are contributing funds for evaluation. However, other forms of experimentation may also require funds, such as: means of equipment required for the experimental activity. And teachers who take responsibility for development work can also be rewarded extra?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2104	It's an interesting interpellation that the representative Rikvam addresses. The party of progress is in favour of the school being flexible and being able to be organised in different ways, in fact to the extent that we have made more proposals here in the Stortinget that would open up a much larger flora of alternative school models. For us, the central quality is that we have measurable improvements. In order to gain more flexibility in school, it is important that we adapt the working time arrangements for teachers so that the students who are going to be at school can receive the necessary follow-up. Although Rikham's interpellation is interesting, I have a clear feeling that he will use alternative solutions for the school that is being used to remove grades and exams – an old taboo for SV. We in the Progress Party will warn against this. There are no good alternatives to the type of evaluation that grades and exams represent, both in terms of pupils’ and parents’ ability to evaluate pupils’ efforts and in terms of school management’s and policy makers’ ability to evaluate the development of individual classes and schools, although the system of grades and exams can, of course, also be improved. As I see it, there's no logical context in that alternative school models exclude grades and exams. In fact, it is the opposite — a thorough evaluation by grades and exams is needed to check that the alternative school models are working properly. Otherwise, in the Advancement Party, we agree with Mr Reikvam that the length of the procedure for applications for tests must be reduced. We do not agree, however, with Reikvam that everything that was done in the school in the past was wrong and cannot be used today. We record that there were people of most of those who went to school earlier. So we should have something to learn, for example. with regard to the management of violence, fighting, etc. We don't have to figure out the wheel multiple times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2115	Right has a great sense of reikvam's desire to give the schools greater opportunity to organise the teaching themselves and to find out for themselves the teaching methods that have to be best suited in the individual case. Such an extension of the school's freedom of action is an important requirement if we are to have any hope of fulfilling the ambitious goal of providing all pupils with a customised education provision. So we're quite a few. On the other hand, the Right does not agree with the interpellant that the evaluation and testing system represents some obstacle to the implementation of greater freedom of action for each school. First, grades are important for giving feedback to the students and parents about their professional development. Of course, the number and frequency of tests in each class and subject can be discussed – hardly anyone can claim to have the truth here. Right is fully willing to leave each individual teacher to decide the scope of the test in each class, but we insist that nationwide and standardised tests in Norwegian, mathematics, natural sciences and English are necessary in the middle and youth stages, while compulsory diagnostic tests should be carried out to check that students actually achieve the necessary skill in reading and writing. I would also like to mention here the Right's desire for independent school supervision, which can be a neutral, unintelligible aid for better education. A small warning: Let us not exaggerate what organisational reforms have to say. Of the public debate, it may seem that a person gets a better school if only one removes the homework. Having a lesson-free school is, of course, no guarantee that we will get a better school. The most important thing is that students learn what to learn, not how to learn it. It might be interesting to hear about Reikvam's desire for innovation going so far that he is willing to allow the individual teacher to choose the pedagogical differentiation that best suits the individual class, even if this meant, among other things. group breakdown by professional level for a shorter or longer period of time. I don't think about the old syllabus, but when Per, Kari and Ola have a special problem, they can get a little extra help in a period of this particular theme. Finally, the representative Rikvam does not seem fully up-to-date on what is happening in Norwegian school today. The teacher teaches for 45 minutes six hours per day. day in the classroom, is the passing tone of Reikvam. We who have been out in Norwegian school know that there is much more education than this in school. There's a lot of exciting things going on in Norwegian school, and there's a lot of exciting tests going on here. We will try to stimulate them further, but the black measurement and the uniformity of the teaching described by Rikvam are not representative of today’s Norwegian school – that is to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2126	I am pleased to note that many schools are in line to apply new learning methods and are looking for funds to try out other ways to organise classes and groups. I refer here to the Norwegian School Bulletin, which in its last issue has a larger report on the subject. It was the central government that took hold of and solved the strict and centralistic curriculums, so that now there is room for a more flexible choice of learning material and to be able to see several steps together in terms of goal attainment, etc. Apprenticeship level 97 was too tight in relation to the self-assessment and professionalism of the teachers. Many felt in a pedagogical coercion. Fortunately, this was softened in new regulations for curriculum and law. The central government spent last year funding on the school package to stimulate innovation in organising the learning process. It is good that the Council of State is following up this. According to Norsk Skoleblad, there are a number of interesting applications for trials, all in order to improve training so that individual students can receive more individualised training. That's the whole purpose, better learning for the individual. The interpellant angles its question of the organisation of the learning environment against new forms of assessment in line with curricula. It's affordable, but this is already open in a separate section of the Training Act. An overview from the Teachers’ Association shows many good examples of relevant applications. Of course, this does not prevent one from challenging the state councils on what initiatives he can take to stimulate better and more relevant assessment methods than is usual today, and we have heard some of the answers from there now. Students need feedback in different ways to be stimulated for new learning and development. In particular, project-oriented education is an important part of developing the curiosity and imagination of students in the learning process. Here, evaluation is at the heart of the process. It's a challenge to get more teachers to do project work. Today, thematic education is probably often referred to as project work. I challenge the Council of State to say a little about this, and how far the training has come in this area. The important thing now is to give teachers confidence so that they can free up their educational creativity and get framework conditions and educational incentives to use the space of action that already exists. My wish is that all municipalities will now focus educational development on the political agenda. Schools may not be compared directly with other services. Learning cannot be measured according to the number of kilometres of road development. Learning is so much more than what students achieve purely professionally. It's about developing the whole human being, as the general part of the curriculum says. This requires new and varied forms of assessment. I am asking myself a little question on the side of the subject, if not the head of the school, which many municipalities have cut out, should be repatriated as a pedagogical leader and an inspiration to ensure more school-development debate in the municipalities. It involves, as you know, much more than counting money on different budget lines and discussing the closure of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2140	The interpellant said in his first post that we, who started school in the 1950s, had only one radio channel to retrieve information from. For information, I can tell you that there were some of us who also found Radio Lux, so we had a little bit to choose from. I think what's taken up in the interpellation today is positive and important. It is also important that we go a little deeper into what is stopping any development projects in Norwegian school. I believe that there is a good working room within today's regulations and agreements. I registered that the state council said he would take care of it if the treatment period in the department was too long. He has expressed that he will go into it. But I don't think it's the treatment time that's the big plug. It could be so much that there are a number of schools, and also in municipalities around the country, where you are not the driving force behind starting projects. But I think – as others here have also said – that there is a lot of exciting news in Norwegian school. In my opinion, the committee had an amazing tour a little over a year ago, among other things. to Gran School here in Oslo, where we got a review of how that school had been doing a larger project work in terms of integration and minority work. And I think an overall committee can agree that this is made an experiment that we have every reason to be proud of at all levels. When the interpellant Rikvam in his main post runs so hard at breaking down centralist lines, I'm somewhat surprised, because in the years I've followed debates here in the staging room, it's quite often I've heard from SV the concept of 'central labour standards', that is, that you have great confidence that the best way to do things is that it's the central point that is the decision factor in Norwegian school. The last thing I want to mention, which I think is very important, are these development projects that are going to do homework, that is. that you can have homework free or at least have homework done at school, because there are so many differences between parents in resources etc. with regard to helping the individual student, that there are often a number of students who come out poorly or lose in proportion to what it would have been like if he had had access to homework at school and had the support device lying there around him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2153	The school must be the only place where you choose to organise the work so that most of the job is done at home. There are probably no other jobs in this country where you organise the work so that when you are done at your place of work you have to go home and do the job. Educational school is nothing more than a choice to organise the teaching or learning work to do what is to be done at the workplace. We can imagine how it would be around jobs here in Norway, if you chose to organise it so that most of the work had to be done when you got home. Obviously, this is going to be wrong. So lesson-free school isn't about homework, it's really just a symptom that we've organized mistakes. And that's what I'm dealing with, that we have to choose a way to organize and add to the right teaching work, so that the students can do the work at school when they're there. This debate has shown where the dividing lines go in Norwegian education policy. The right is a party of education, but what they have responded to today is grades, tests and an independent selection. That's the answer to doing school better. More grades, more tests, and then we're going to have a sample, an independent school supervision – which they're coming from England – that's going to travel around and make sure that what's going on in school is fair and fair. This is a distrust of the teachers. We need to have great confidence in the teachers, and we need to believe – and we know – that if they get confidence within reasonable limits, they create, together with the students, an exciting and good school where learning takes place. And that's what's important, and what's the goal: to facilitate learning. So we know that some things control the processes at school. And Arne Lyngstad surprises me a little bit. Because when we read the evaluation of Reform 94, where we clearly point out that the character system, the evaluation system, controls what's going on in school, then we have to make a deal with it, because we know something about it. And when we know that this is controlling, we have to take the necessary settlement – we have to change it. And it is not difficult to develop new forms of assessment where students themselves are more involved in carrying out this evaluation and these assessments. Many schools do that, and it works great. Finally, the feedback we get from schools that are interested in trying out new models, and that have worked to get something new, is that these are the framework conditions, i.e. the curricula, working time arrangements and the character system which are the main obstacles. And that's what we can do about here. And then we'll do something about it if we want a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2167	Let me first address a few specific challenges that I have encountered during this debate. The representative Lyngstad asked if I could be willing to look at the exams at primary school, and I think that's a good suggestion. We should have a continuous discussion of the scope of the examination and the appropriateness of the examination. When it comes to whether or not one can stimulate attempts by providing support to other parts of the experimentation, I would say the following: My attitude to this is that we need to get the most out of the experimentation to be organised locally, and that the money can go out so that the schools and the municipalities themselves can run projects. When I travel and sometimes meet people who may have spent two-three-four days on administrative work to apply for NOK 20 000, I am a little overstated how we have organized this. Then you would have liked to spend as much time in administration – searching, reporting and writing all this administrative stuff – as you get at all for your experiment. It's better to get the money out and let the different attempts flourish. As far as the challenge from Marit Tingelstad is concerned, I fully agree that we need a stronger awareness of the school development in each municipality and a proper debate on it. I hope we can do that. In terms of project work, I would say that some of the things that the hearing we had about teacher training showed were that there is still a lot to do. It must be a prerequisite that the new teachers we're going to send out to Norwegian school have actually used the same forms of work in their own learning that they're going to use when they get out of school. If you've used traditional teaching in your own learning, and then suddenly you're going to use untraditional, new methods in school, I think it's going to be more difficult than if you used it in practice in your teacher's education. There's a story being told – I don't know if it's right, but at least it illustrates a point – about a teacher's school class that came back to the teacher's school after attending a elementary school, and then they demanded that at least they should have as much influence over their own day-to-day learning as the pupils at primary school. It might tell you a little bit about that we're going to hang out a little bit. But then I have to agree entirely with the interpellant that this debate shows very clearly that the dividing lines in this area of Norwegian education policy go between the centre, the Labour Party and the left on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. Some of the most enjoyable thing about this debate was when Lyngstad said maybe we should look at the exam forms, maybe we're spending too much resources on it, maybe we could use the resources on learning in school. On the other hand, the right proposes that we conduct the examination in all written subjects in primary school. They suggest that we introduce grades from the fifth grade in high school. They are also opposed, for example. open book examination; they have been previously in this room. It shows that the distinction now goes clearly between the center and the left on one side of the equation and the right side of the equation, and that's what it's done in the past. That is why I hope that we, who at least agree on the direction in which development should go, can have it cooperated on a new school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2180	Then the interpellation debate is over, and case no. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-07.ana.ud615e2189	There is no record.
