ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e38	The representative Heidi Sørensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Three permit applications are available: by Asmund Kristoffersen and Arne Lyngstad on leave on 13 and 14 December – both to attend the meeting of the Baltic Assembly in Tallinn under the auspices of the Nordic Council of the Workers' Party on sick leave for the representative Leif Lund from 13 December until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Astri Wessel, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Arne Lyngstad on 13 and 14 December for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the county of Hordaland: Rita TveitenFor More and Romesdal counties: Ottar KaldholFor the county of Nord-Trøndelag: Karin Søraunet3. Rita Tveiten is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e98	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the evening meeting is scheduled for Friday 14 December with nodelsting from 9 p.m. 18 – this with regards from Lagtinget. No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the current map is considered, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. With the previously recorded list of speakers, and if the debate were not to be taken away, it would be possible to complete it approximately. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 3:30. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e142	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e153	We can all agree that there has been some strong turbulence around the treatment of the state budget in Stortinget this autumn, a turbulence that has hardly strengthened the reputation of the political environment. I think I should like to thank the members of the Social Committee for their thorough and constructive budgetary treatment. The social security budget is in total approx. NOK 230 billion, an increase of approx. €35 billion compared to 2001. Of these enormous sums, which amount to approx. One third of the total state budget has been able to move only within the framework of the technical committee on about Thirty-four million. kr. In my opinion, the consideration of the number budgets of the Trade Union Committee is a mere farce and a desauvuration of the competence of the Trade Union Committee. Inconsequentially, I also think that the Committees receive a significant number of hearings after the individual political parties in the financial situation have most of their policies and their numerical budgets in place. At my discretion, this is no less than keeping the user organisations fooled. But I also see a positive side by dealing with the state budget in this way, namely the possibility for the parties to make policies – think long-term, lead the policies of the future and form majority comments and promote proposals that go on a future structure, which will be binding on governments in the longer term than the time interval for a government budget. In the present position of the Social Committee, a majority of the parties – the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre – have succeeded in obtaining very many majority decisions on the future structure of different areas that will be of great importance in the coming period. Lack of interest from the government parties to constructive cooperation with the Progress Party in the Social Committee, but all the more positive willingness of the Labour Party to cooperate, is reflected in the present position and underlines that the opposition is putting its political influence on the present position. In fact, it is the Progress Party and the government parties that have the setting on the frames, but the money move is too much money to count. The Progress Party considers health and care and the organisation of inclusion of people with disabilities in society as the main public tasks to be prioritised by society. The Party notes with satisfaction that a significant part of the health policy objective of the Progress Party has been achieved in recent years. In this context, I mention free hospital elections, input-based funding, patient rights law and, above all, the biggest political reform in Norway's history, the reform of responsibility with state-wide responsibility for hospitals, which will come into force next year. The Progress Party will continue to contribute to innovation in health policy and care for the elderly, so that Norway has at all times a qualitative treatment and care provision for its citizens in line with the best in the world. If we are to achieve these high-level objectives in the future, we need to focus more on medical research than the current budgetary position indicates. The new genetic and biotechnologies now on the global stage is likely to revolutionise, in a relatively short period of time, medical-technical development in many fields, and there is reasonable optimism that this technology can both prevent and, above all, cure a number of serious deadly diseases that humanity is currently struggling with. However, I am very concerned about the restrictive approach to this technology to which it is added from the new government in the Sem Declaration. We must not get Norwegian legislation in this area that excludes Norwegian research communities and Norwegian clinicians from participating in the development of this treatment technology at an internationally high level for the benefit of Norwegian citizens. I would recommend the Minister of Health and the Christian People's Party to listen to the party's sister party in Sweden, which has a much more positive approach to this technology than what the Christian People's Party seems to have here in Norway. Of course, we should be aware of the ethical aspects of this technology, but we need to have an approach that is basically positive and not negative, if we're going to get to the goal, for the benefit of our future patients. However, it must never be permitted to use this technology for human sorting or for modifying the mutagenicity. This is now also banned in the whole of the Western world. There has been a lot of discussion about which of the two different budget proposals, from the Stoltenberg Government and the Bondevik Government respectively, have the best social profile to combat poverty. It is too easy to believe that poverty can be combated in Norway by simply increasing state transfers. The problem is complex and involves both taxes and taxes, access to the labour market and business organisation to create more jobs. Better follow-up of the working line based on the Sandman investigation is important. Positive exploitation of residual working capacity improves the quality of life for most. The Progress Party's alternative budget, with a significant reduction in all-affected taxes, and also a sharp reduction in the taxes on low incomes, would have a much better social profile than both the government parties and the Stoltenberg government budget. Moreover, I believe that several of the structural proposals in the position of the Social Committee, which have a majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, together have a better social profile than the proposals of the Government Parties. I refer in particular to the majority proposals that 70 million should be spent. kr for increased children’s add-ons for social clients. I hope this means a permanent change in the Health and Social Policy of the Workers' Party. An example of another joyous turnaround by the Workers' Party is the majority remark and the proposal that the basic amount of social security should be regulated at least in line with the usual wage and price developments of the initial social security settlement. For years this has been the sole concern of the Progress Party. The biggest health policy reform ever in the country’s history to be implemented in 2002, namely the hospital reform – or the responsibilities reform, which I want to call it – with state-wide responsibility and financing of the specialist healthcare service, is all of us excited. I am pleased that the current government with Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten has promised that the reform will take place in accordance with Odelsting's intentions from January 2002. The Progress Party may pledge full support to the Government to implement the reform in accordance with the intentions contained in the proceedings. However, as far as I am aware, the current draft budget for the allocation to regional health businesses is not sufficient, and we can risk starting the reform with a total under-coverage in enterprises of perhaps as much as SEK 1.5 billion. This is not good, and we have to come back to this in the revised national budget. In the revised national budget next year, the country must also be prepared to cover all operating deficits in public hospitals that can be accountingally returned to increased patient treatment in 2001. This has also not been taken into account in the current budgetary position. When I want and prefer to use the term "reform of responsibility" for the hospital reform, it is to point out the responsibility we have in Stortinget for the future operation of our hospitals. Although the Progress Party has always believed that the health resources were the sole responsibility of the Stortingen, this responsibility will now have to be seen much more in the Stortingen precisely in connection with the treatment of government budgets. Neither the majority of the Stortinge nor the Minister of Health can extend responsibility to others when sick people are not treated in a timely manner in our own country. I still have a strong need to remind the Minister of Health of the two major deficiencies we still have, in cancer care and psychiatry. These two plans adopted by the Storting are not in line with the need and have to be re-evaluated as soon as possible. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus in the present position that the elderly effort should continue until the need for sick homes is met. It is both regrettable and a bit of a paradox that after we have now spent 26 billion kroner on the elderly effort and the reform has gone over three and a half years, we now have worse health care coverage than we had when the reform started. So, after this big effort, we have a worse care offer for the most nurturing of our elderly sick. This must be the responsibility of both governments and not least the individual municipalities. Two previous governments have not followed up on the reform and have ensured that hospitals are prioritised in the municipalities, which have speculated economically in investing in nursing homes because it gives pure profit and virtually no expense to the municipalities. I am pleased to note that, finally, there seems to be a cross-political agreement that the health service should have a greater responsibility for the treatment of those drug addicts. This must be followed up legally by transferring data responsibility to health law. However, it is still a long way to go before those drug addicts are also respected and valued as other sick people. Never have we seen as much drug abuse throughout the country as in our days. We are at the top of the world for overdose deaths, and it is no longer just the big cities that have a significant number of injecting drug users. There is reason to question whether the drug policy that has been pursued in this country has failed, and I wish that there could be a political agreement to appoint a drug commission to go through our drug policy and legislation with regard to changes and improvements. Should drug addiction continue to be a prohibited disease in Norway in 2001? Overall, I believe that the Progress Party in the field of health and social affairs has come out of this budgetary procedure. We have received free medicine on a blue prescription for retired people and disabled people. We've reduced the self-interest rate. We've increased the input-based funding by 5 pst. We have negotiated a small increase in the recruitment rate of the training institutions. We have been given the means to perform a promising therapeutic HIV vaccine clinically. We have increased the funding of the pensioners' organisations and the organisations of the disabled. And not least, thanks to the Workers' Party, we have had an impact on ending the underregulation of G, and that this regulation should be done at least in line with wage and price developments. This will be a major help to all those who receive state transfers of various forms of social security and pension, thus being an important factor in combating poverty in Norway. And then a heartfelt recommendation to the Government: The training institutions are struggling with a very bad economy. We can risk in 2002, if this budget becomes final, that more people have to enter the years and end. The training institutions are perhaps the most important institutions that run rehabilitation, I kept saying at a normal level, and they actually cover more than half of the rehabilitation provided in this country, and then the Stortinget and the Government have to see their responsibility and make sure that these institutions have a predictable economy with which to operate from year to year, so that you don't have to live in this horror of every state budget that comes. How's it going next year? Will I survive – will I not survive? Here there has to be a different form of funding to the one we have today, which has to be predictable, and which includes the training institutions in the whole and the full health care system, so that we do not have a special treatment for these institutions in relation to all other rehabilitation. Finally, I refer to the proposals from the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e206	The representative Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e211	I have stated on several occasions that I believe that the representative Alvheim has a strong and genuine social commitment. It was also expressed in the post he now made. But I would like to challenge Alvheim on this with the whole of politics. He himself was inside it in his post. There is no doubt that improvements in public health and social security are examples of important measures, among other things. to combat poverty in Norway. But much more is important in this way: investing in the social security system and their work for an inclusive working life, a good health pay scheme, more and cheaper kindergartens, free primary and secondary schools, school leisure arrangements, cheap and good leisure clubs, a strong home bank and a good community economy. All of these are examples of other important measures to further develop the welfare community. All of this lays the foundation for a society that does not constantly create new poor ones. My question is therefore: When the representative Alvheim looks at the whole of the policy of the Progress Party, does he not get any cold freezes in his otherwise warm social policy heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e220	No, I guess I don't have cold freezes on the whole policy of the Progress Party. And more important than what I need to feel, is that the Norwegian people see the whole of the Progress Party's policy in full. I dare say that the alternative state budget that we put forward in the financial position has a better social profile than the Labour Party's proposal. And then that's exactly the whole thing I'm looking at. I don't know where the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen got it from that we were going to be at a free school. We've never said that and never meant that. Looking at our proposal for a government budget in the financial position, the local economy will be far better with the proposals of the Progress Party than with the other proposals in the vote. This is what the Central Statistical Office has calculated for us and found out that this is the reality. However, there are a number of interventions that the Workers' Party has not yet wanted to support, namely this with competitive outsourcing and freeing the disposal of funds in the municipalities. We must also take this side of the policy into account in assessing the amounts that the Progress Party will transfer to the municipalities and county municipalities. It is our dynamic policy that will give municipalities more of a route than the other proposals will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e229	When the representative Alvheim, both today and in the press after the budget agreement, describes the agreement, it reminds me a little of the teenage boy who had finally received a yes from the girl he had looked at, but who, when he later met the comrades, said that he really didn't think she was so pretty, and really she wasn't that very nice either. I agree with Alvheim that the changes that have been made are of minor importance – that is less money – although these are areas that are of common importance to us. What might even mean even more is that one of the budgets that we started had increased the effort-driven funding, increased the allocation of hospitals, and started a series of important measures against drug use, which both the Progress Party and Alvheim have been engaged in in the past. But the most important thing is perhaps the leadership of the Government on future changes in this area, such as strengthening patient rights, such as allowing the free choice of hospitals to include hospitals with agreements, as a commitment to a roof 2 scheme. Alvheim pointed out that there were some structural proposals for which they had received a majority. He should then go through the 17 structural proposals and see that all the proposals, with the exception of 5, are behind the government parties. These are structural proposals in which the government has already largely set in motion important work to just achieve the goals that you here have. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, one sees that they will cut the hospital budget by over 200 million. kr in relation to what the majority will now do. Does the representative Alvheim not see that in future budgetary settlements he has a greater chance of getting through his policies in cooperation with the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e238	To the representative Bent Höie I would say that I am probably in the oldest made to go on the proposal now. With regard to the Right's policy in the present state budget, there is a great deal to be marveled at. It is quite clear that being in position and being in opposition to one's own policies are two very different things. Let me start with the input-based funding. For several years, including in the context of government budgets, the right has proposed that it be increased to 60 pst. The progress party has held 80 p.m. When we raise this requirement in relation to the new government, we're going to add 5 pst. So we're going to add 55 pst. I didn't think that was a good right-wing policy, based on the practice we've had with the Right before. In the case of free hospital choice, the proposition — and there is nothing in particular for this government — states that the private clinics, hospitals and institutions that have agreed with county health services should continue to have an agreement with the enterprises. I can't see there's anything new here. I come back to this in a different context during the debate, but I cannot find it in the budget position. So for better patient rights. Yes, but why has it not been resolved as quickly as possible so that all Norwegian patients can be guaranteed a legal right to treatment and made proposals to amend the Patient Rights Act? There is no proposal from the government parties. But there's a proposal from the Progress Party, by me, to change the law, so that you get a legal right to treatment. The conclusion is that the Right has little to boast about in this draft state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e253	It is not unknown that the Progress Party has been against the introduction of the fixed medical system. One gets to respect the fact that there are different views about this system. Nevertheless, we see that some of the weaknesses that have emerged recently, and the criticism that has arisen in the newspapers, are largely linked to municipal medical care systems, and especially in Oslo, when acute situations have arisen. There must also have been deaths as a result of not having a doctor removed, or that the offer to the medical officer has not come quickly enough. I have registered that this is a problem that the representative Alvheim has been concerned about. Among other things, in his interpellation earlier on the fixed medical system, I think he put forth the important role of the municipal medical officer in that picture in a commendable way. That is why I am a little surprised when, together with the Central Party in the form of a note, SV is just drawing up the need to strengthen the municipal medical guards and to see their responsibilities linked to the municipal medical guards, because the Progress Party would not take part in that remark. I want to ask Alvheim what's the background for that. Why does the Progress Party not see the need for the state to enter and engage more strongly in relation to a well-developed municipal bodyguard around the country, just to do something about the weakness that has arisen, and of which Alvheim has also been a critic? The representative Alvheim will find our comment on page 81 of the budget position. I would like to ask him the reason why the Progress Party cannot take part in that remark. I have a question for the representative Alvheim. If I understood him correctly, he said knowingly that the Progress Party had been entirely alone in demanding that the adjustment of the basic amount be made at least in line with the general wage and price developments. I'll ask Alvheim to think again. Does Alvheim insist that the Progress Party has really been alone on that demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e262	To take the last one first: On the last social security settlement, SV voted against the proposal of the Progress Party to resume the under-regulation of the basic amount. With regard to the municipal medical services and the fixed medical system, the reason why we are not voting for this proposal is that we sincerely believe that we need to go in and do something about the whole reform of the system. A system of daytime emergency care on the part of permanent doctors has been introduced. Both the Medical Association and the Department, as well as the majority of the Storting, had to realize that it is impracticable to do so. You can't expect a permanent doctor to leave a full office and move out to a list patient in the event of an acute illness. So it's basically not useful to continue with the system that's in the fixed medical system today. We want to get rid of the entire medicament. I hope that that happens if not too much time, because the problems that are gradually revealed, not only in Oslo, but throughout the country, are so serious and serious that something the Government now needs to do as quickly as possible to ensure that patients get emergency help when acute illness occurs. The doctors must also have their passport prescribed, as they have almost stopped moving out to sick patients in the homes, but are sitting in the office waiting for the patients to get there. I actually had a personal experience for not long back. I was about to lose my life because a doctor didn't move out when I became acutely ill. We have to end this. I hope the Socialist Left Party and Olav Gunnar Ballo will be there to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e273	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e277	Let me begin by admitting that I think the budget procedure of the autumn has been very demanding. The work of the Social Committee is extensive. It's been a lot of new getting into it, and a lot remains in that way. At the same time, it's been exciting. The work of the Social Committee affects people's everyday lives, and very often we work on issues where the people affected are in a vulnerable situation. In the last period, the Stortinget adopted two major health policy reforms: the permanent reform and the hospital reform. The permanent reform was, as you know, implemented in the summer. I'm happy about that, because I think it's right to have the goal that all the residents of this country should have their own fixed doctor – a doctor that the patient knows, a doctor who knows the patient. However, it is important that we, who have provided a majority for this reform, are also very sensitive to the practical experience that we are now gradually going to have. We must be willing to adjust to the reform arrangements so that the reform's objective and intention can live on. So far, the public debate has been particularly concerned with two aspects. Firstly, it concerns the referral system. There the Minister of Health has made it clear that he wants a more flexible arrangement. The Labour Party agrees. Furthermore, there has been a debate on the emergency response in the day, especially in Oslo. This is a very important area. Through the media, we have all become familiar with examples of what seems to be a failure in vital routines. Whether this has so much to do with the firmness reform, I'm in doubt about. In any case, it will be important for the Minister of Health to address the emergency response in the daytime. There must be crystal clear procedures to deal with. It must not be the case that the patient or the relatives themselves have to take an innumerable number of phones to a system that provides different answers. There are now only days left until the hospitals are transferred from the county municipalities to the state. This is a major and important reform. The expectations are high. As a former state politician, I know that the population has a strong commitment to its hospital, to its maternity ward, to its emergency reception, yes at all to the local hospital. I also know that state policies have to a large extent acted as a filter between the population and the Stortinget on hospital issues. A lot of country politicians have met with me calling it their political death by voting wrong on such issues. Now this whole problem will move closer to the Government and us in the Storting. And I think that's good. The disclaimer that people have experienced in health policy, we couldn't live with. Now the hospitals are our responsibility. We can't blame anyone if evolution goes in the wrong direction. The government’s main challenge in health policy will therefore be to implement major health policy reforms that have been adopted. I am pleased with the health minister's attitude towards implementing a hospital reform that the Christian People's Party opposed, and I can promise the Minister of Health the necessary support here in his important implementation work. In the social policy and let me say the social policy area, the situation is different from the one I have just described in relation to health policy. I think these are areas where it is time for reform. Eligible or not; many feel an uncertainty about the future of popular fear. That is why, in connection with the work of the Pensions Commission, we need to clarify the future of the people's rights, and we need to simplify the system. Both the present and certainly the future will be about completely different family structures than the ones that were the basis for the development of today's rights structure in popular security. This is why, for example, the protests against today's system of co-ordination of pensions for spouses meet stronger and stronger resistance. We will meet challenges in relation to the need to raise those with the lowest social security, those with the lowest pension, while at the same time respecting the principle of being able to earn supplementary pensions. The fight against poverty has been a key theme of the recent political debate. We see that many of those who live on social security have to go to the Social Security Office to get benefits in addition to social security. This is necessary in order to address both the fixed and the current costs. We can't have it that way. That is why we must ensure that we regulate the performance of people's rights annually in line with cost developments, regardless of which system we will receive in the future. I'm going to admit that I'm excited about – and critical of – the social policy of the new government. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the fight for economic and social justice, i.e. the fight against poverty, must be fought in a number of different arenas. Working for everyone is the most important thing in this way. An inclusive working life is the most important thing we can do when we want to fight poverty. The Workers' Party is committed to a social development marked by the public's need to ensure access to basic welfare goods for the population. We are committed to a strong public health system, where everyone can afford to receive the necessary treatment. We see that we have gone too far in relation to the excesses in health care. That's why we want to build up the excesses in the health care system. We are engaged in good kindergarten services for everyone. That's why we're betting on it. We're busy with a good school that's free for everyone. That's why we're betting on it. We're engaged in a social housing policy that can secure every place to live, somewhere they can call a home. That is why we are betting on the House Bank. All of this is about building a society that does not create ever-new poor people — ever-new people in economic or social need. The alternative to this policy is to focus on increased targeting of actions, tailoring, extended needs testing, actions to those who really need it — the most deserving. I will as strongly as I can, warn the Government against at least going too far along this track. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals which the Labour Party has made itself or with others, with the exception of proposal No. 1 in the Input. S. No 47 to Document No 8:2. This proposal is drawn up in consultation with the SV and the Central Party because the Stortinget unanimously adopted a similar proposal yesterday in connection with the examination of the budgetary position of the Church, Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e329	The representative has taken up the proposals he referred to and has done well for that proposal No. 1 in the Input. S. No 47 is drawn. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e334	In the current budgetary position, the Labour Party and the Progress Party have contributed to a significant number of structural proposals and joint comments which, both in the short and long term, will obviously make life easier for users of healthcare and care services. During the examination of the current budgetary position of the Social Committee, it appears that the Labour Party has changed its policy in several fields and has approached the policy of the Progress Party. For example, here I refer to the regulation of the basic amount, I refer to the admission of several medicines to the blue prescription and the Workers' Party's proposal to reduce the ceiling on the excess amounts, which was a commendable proposal. My question to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will then be: Can one expect that the apparent reversal by the Labour Party of health and social policy, which is now made known in the present position, will continue in the years to come? Or is this just a short-term attempt to get voters back to the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e345	With regard to the main theme of Alvheim, that is, the question of whether the Workers' Party is now looking at its social and health policy, I think the answer is: Yes, the party has set up a wide-ranging body to work towards the national meeting in November next year, where the whole social policy area is to be reviewed in order to master a new policy for the challenges of the future. The fact that the Workers' Party feels it is necessary and that the Workers' Party has taken over the fact that the party has lost confidence in this area is at the root of this sample's work. But the examples that the representative Alvheim used in his reply, I don't think very comprehensive about the challenge the party is facing. For example: The regulation of G, I myself have had the pleasure of being a member of the government of Stoltenberg and have thus been involved in two social security settlements where G has been regulated in accordance with cost developments. Continuing this in 2002 will therefore be in line with the social security schemes implemented by the government of Stoltenberg. In the case of medicaments, it was the government of Stoltenberg that proposed to remove the excess on the blue prescription for social security and pensioners. So it wasn't the Workers' Party in opposition after the election, but it was the government that proposed it, as well as that it also suggested lower trades, for example. for patients in training institutions. So the Labour Party thinks new in social policy, we see the need for it. But the examples Alvheim uses here from the setting, I also think that there's a relationship between thinking new and holding on to what we've been up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e356	One of the main challenges we will face in the health and social sector in the coming years is to provide enough staff and staff who are well qualified to carry out all the important tasks to be carried out in these areas. This will concern both home care, home care, old-age and hospital care. We are already seeing a major shortage of workers in the care sector, while at the same time there is a sharp decline in recruitment to the professions. For example, the search for such secondary schools goes down. Here it is, as I see it, an unexposed bomb that in a few years may hit those who need these services. Therefore, this enlargement must take this situation seriously. I then wonder that the Labour Party in the Social Committee did not want to be involved in proposals asking the Government to make proposals for concrete measures that could bring health professionals back to their professions and that could make part-time workers in these professions work more. SV also wants a pay package to be developed for care professionals in line with what has been done in the past for other professions within the public sector. This proposal would have been given a majority if the Workers' Party had supported it together with the SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party. I refer to page 86 of the setting. The Labour Party is also not involved in the majority position, where the Government is asked to draw up a new action plan for the recruitment of health professionals with a focus on concrete actions, including: an assessment of the equivalence of three-part round work with all-continuous shift work. My question to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is then: Since the Labour Party does not agree with this type of action, what will his party do to avoid that in the future we will have a frightening shortage of qualified employees in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e367	It is important for me to stress that I believe that the Workers' Party and the SV will agree very much on the need to implement measures, to have an active recruitment policy in relation to providing the personnel we will need in the future. But then the question is, how do you go about designing this active recruitment policy? How, for example, to do this. working on pay terms? What should be the Grandfather's task in relation to the forthcoming salary settlement, and what should be the Government's task? I believe the disagreement between the Workers' Party and SV in these kinds of questions is much more about the fact that it will be very important for us to maintain that the role of the Storting relative to, for example, the determination of wages is largely to keep the fingers of the barrel. It must be the government's task to lay down the strategy for the preparation of wages and salaries, and it must be the government's task, if necessary, to cooperate with the Municipal Councils on how to facilitate recruitment measures. For example, in the majority voting: this with three-part tour an important point – I do not remember if that was what the representative referred to. But for us in the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that that kind of question belongs to the collective bargaining process, and that in our opinion it would be wrong for the Storting to address the issue in advance of the parties' ordinary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e376	Cash support should improve non-discrimination and freedom of choice between care options. This freedom of choice believes that the Christian People's Party should keep families, even if they have to ask for social assistance for a period of time. The Labour Party has been active in its criticism of the cash support. But it was the Workers' Party that first criticized the municipalities that chose to coordinate cash support with social assistance. In a Question Time in March 1999, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim said to the State Council, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland: ‘Is it not the Council of State that becomes a moral issue when rich, wealthy families receive cash support, while the social welfare recipients lose it? And I have to ask how the Council of State can still sit completely paralyzed and see that there is such a degree of discrimination in our municipalities." Orheim's trophy said, «The cash support does not go to both poor and rich as long as we see that the municipalities practice as differently as they do. ...The idea of cash support was not that it should reduce the social costs of municipalities? ...I believe that the Council of State should act now through a proposal for a legislative decision. It is not useful to wait for the spring party to make a change in the law. We know enough, we know that 80 pst. by the municipalities cut cash support.» In the anti-sampling message, all the parties except the Progress Party said that the cash support should be excluded. Now the Workers' Party has turned around. Isn't this no longer a moral question for the party? And why has the Workers' Party turned around when both the Bondevik Government I and the Bondevik Government II have really followed up the Workers' Party's intense desire to keep the cash support outside the calculation basis for social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e395	What has happened after all that the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has just referred to, is that we were given guidance on social assistance rates in the spring. That system is built up so that when those in need of social assistance come to the social office, it's a matter of course you start by looking at the sum of incomes, then looking at costs, and then you have indicative rates of what you have to be left with for necessary living. It's, in my opinion, a sensible system. How much income does the person who has financial problems have, how much cost does he have, and how much social assistance does he need to receive to cover current costs? Then you can discuss whether the indicative rates of social assistance are high enough, and there is an important debate that we should come back to. But what you're proposing now is a system that says that when there's a social welfare client with a two-year-old, the social worker will have to say, if you keep your child in kindergarten, you get $3,000 less in social assistance than if you take it out. The only way you can influence the social welfare measures is to take the child out of the kindergarten, then you're going to get NOK 3000 more, because there's income you ignore in the rest of the system! In my opinion, this is going to be a wrong system, not least because the most important thing in relation to the beneficiary of social assistance is to help him get into a situation where you can get out of the need for social assistance, i.e. in work or in education. And then you need not least proper supervision of the child – so you have to keep the nursery. So creating a system to stimulate social welfare recipients to take the children out of kindergarten is at least not help for self-help.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e407	I would like to begin by joining in the evaluations by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen of what it is like to be new to the social committee, and would like to thank the committee, especially those members – and some of them – who have long and safe seagoing times from that committee, for having accepted new ones in a good way and for being patient with our ignorance in some areas. I hope that we will now get into the areas that are now being discussed. The welfare community faces major challenges. New medical technology and changed lifestyles make us live longer. The share over 80 years will double over the next 50 years. At the same time, the real retirement age is reduced, with the result that there is an increasing number of active persons for each pensioner. The average take-off age is now down for 58 years. Illnesses that could not be cured in the past are today drugs for and treatment for. Demand for healthcare will increase. We expect treatment after the latest new medical technology, and we expect the state to pay, because we have already paid both taxes and social security contributions. Demand is unlimited, medicine often wants to develop without borders, while the economy of society sets limits. This requires the priorities of the services for which public responsibility is to be given. In this budget debate, we have already met this concretely, but it also calls for the effective organisation of healthcare. 2002 will be remembered in Health-Norway as the year in which the State assumed responsibility for the hospitals. It is the greatest transfer of responsibility of the time and will require a great deal of all of us. The debate on whether to implement the reform has been abandoned, now it is essential to implement it. There are strong expectations for the reform, but there is reason to stress that this reform itself does not solve all problems. Here we're facing an important line shift. In this budget, the input-driven part of the funding is increased from 50 to 55 pst. This means that one is now taking a proper step towards the ISF ceiling, while extending the scheme to private institutions that have contracts with healthcare companies, and the Government is continuing to let patients’ free hospital choice apply to them. These are conversions that are absolutely necessary in order not to strengthen the development towards a two-part healthcare system. We're in Norway getting a health service where those who can afford it can buy health insurance that includes private hospitals without waiting time, while we common people have to wait in a number of vacancies in public hospitals. This is a development no parties in Norway stand for, but that could be a result if we did not now start work to include more of the private specialists and hospitals in the public health service. This is also linked to the fact that the government parties in the Sem Declaration say that one now wants to work towards the legalisation of the patient’s right to treatment within individual medical deadlines. If the deadline is not met, the patient shall be offered treatment by private institutions or abroad for the account of the public. The patient’s need for treatment is to be guided, not taking into account the necessity of treatment in public hospitals. This combined with national electronic waiting lists and systems, where a more comprehensive overview and control of the capacity of each hospital and each department, will provide a Hospital Norway with which we now only recognize the contours. However, it depends on the success of a step one: implementation of the hospital reform in 2002. Perhaps the main role of the Storting in that context is to keep your fingers off the barrel? An important reason for the reform is a clearer liability, while providing hospital companies with the necessary tools to manage such a large and complex organisation as a hospital is. Then, in my opinion, it is important that we avoid a game situation where the Storting engages in individual business issues. Here, we all have a responsibility, especially the parties behind the reform. The Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health has put the fight against poverty and a real offer to drug users at the top of the political agenda. These are areas where all parties are now seeking new orientation and where a new approach is needed. It is therefore gratifying that we are already making important priorities and increasing efforts in this budget. At the same time, the Government is in the process of implementing its own action plan on drug problems. In the budget, the Government is increasing the appropriations for low-threshold health measures and medically assisted rehabilitation. These are important instruments to limit the high number of overdose deaths. As a local health politician, I have had many conversations with both drug users and their relatives. All the stories are equally strong, and often they are different. However, many have shared the view that they have experienced the public treatment and auxiliaries as a counterpart rather than a co-player. In a day-to-day life where one often has to use inhuman forces to keep the family together and protect the stumps, those who are set to help are experienced as opponents. From this pulpit, there's a lot of talk about simplifying the public and reducing the form field. Then there are often small business owners you have in mind. But we have a huge job ahead of us to simplify and humanize the public towards those who are most dependent on this particular aid. A welfare state that makes people permanent clients is a failure. The objective of social policy must be to enable individuals to become self-reliant and independent of public assistance, while at the same time ensuring safety at the bottom. The new Social Minister has managed to get the debate to focus on concrete actions for the poor among us — and not a continuation of the debate on Difference Norway, where the problems of the poor were often forgotten in favour of a discussion on the use of rich money. A unanimous committee is also in favour of addressing the question of a common social, labour and social security system. Hopefully, this will help people not to feel public like a multi-headed troll, where one head doesn't know what the other is doing. This will also make it easier for recipients of social assistance to be able to support themselves. The government is continuing the elderly effort and will present to spring a proposition for the Storting where a further increase in the grant framework will be assessed. This is good. Here it is important that we clarify how we can get into a permanent and predictable arrangement with the municipalities, and ensure a worthy end to the retirement plan. When one through a broad common promise started the aging plan, it wasn't, I think, someone who knew that the need was going to be as great as it was. It is therefore important that all municipalities that have less than 25 pst. coverage in the case of day care and care for the elderly over 80 years of age is provided with the possibility of implementing the extensions notified by 1 October 2001 at the same grant rate as those which have been extended. During the Committee's budgetary procedure, the Government Parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, have found room to make some re-priorities. This primarily benefits the training institutions, with 20,5 million. kr. But we have also strengthened the voluntary organisations for pensioners and disabled people. These are making a fantastic effort, and not least they are contributing with information and offers that the public never had power in the same way. Breast-feeding continues its important work, and we have found room for medical testing of a therapeutic vaccine against HIV. In total, it's moved above 33 million. kr. That's, because I understand, within what's normal through committee work. It is more crucial that a broad majority of the Committee has given a number of exciting leadership to many of the reforms and changes that the Government is in the process of doing. Some of them I have already mentioned. It's one of the proposals that the majority are in favour of, that needs a more detailed explanation. This concerns the ceiling on interpreting hours for deaf people. This is almost identical to a proposal that the Right and SV have been behind in previous budgetary proceedings. This means that the intentions of the proposal are fully supported by the Right, but the problem is today the lack of interpreters. Many deaf people have major problems in interpreting the statutory services, such as: in the context of education. We are concerned that raising the ceiling now in connection with leisure activities and working life will lead to an even stronger imbalance, and we believe that such a rise cannot happen until we have achieved the overall interpretation capacity. One's been told in the past that there are 17 leaders on the committee's side here. Of these, government parties are in everyone except for five. Two are almost identical proposals, which give the same leads, and then one is actually left with three proposals that the Government does not support, but where there are no large shades of vision. It shows that there is a large and broad political consensus about the direction one has taken. With this I will address the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party, and ask that the proposals no. 23 and 24 are converted into transmission proposals to follow the follow-up of the Government to majority proposals VI and VII under framework area 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e464	The representative, Höie, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e469	I think all parties are genuinely concerned that our health care system is going to work properly. This was also the case with the representative, Mr Höie. The big challenge of getting a hospital and a specialist health service to work and to be proportionate to the high resource use we have in Norway, our former Minister of Health Thine took a strong hold, and I expect the Stortinget and the Government to follow this up. However, I would like to challenge the representative Bent Höie at another part of the healthcare system, namely the primary healthcare service. To a lesser extent, the right has been willing to address the biased distribution of doctors in primary health services. However, the introduction of the fixed medical system has brought many doctors who were in pure private practice into new contractual relationships with the municipalities, and medical coverage has already improved significantly as a result, to the delight of both Health Norway and patients. I expect, of course, that the failure we have seen in the emergency services – especially in connection with Oslo – that has been mentioned earlier today, and that has nothing to do with the fixed medical system, is corrected immediately, and that the Minister of Health will take the necessary steps. However, I would like to ask the representative, Höie: will the right stand loyally behind the implementation of the fixed medical system and have an active attitude towards the distribution of doctors, with reference to the disproportionate distribution we have had in Norway up to the latest?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e482	Right-wing resistance to the fixed medical device and its arguments are well known, including: We felt that prioritisation of the use of public funds in an area that was largely functioning well is not sensible. One sees that a number of doctors today get paid well for patients that they hardly see. One has also seen a number of other negative results from the fixed medical system, among others. This with emergency aid and this by reference, which has also been the subject of the Storting and which has now been addressed by the Minister of Health. However, it is in this area, as in many other areas, that once the battle is lost, both in position and in the opposition, one must take responsibility for ensuring that important health reforms are implemented in the best possible way for users. That responsibility, of course, will also take place here. And it's not that when the Right was opposed to the fixed medical system, it was on the basis that one did not see any positive aspects of the scheme. We've also seen a result of the positive sides. My response to the Labour Party in this area is: Yes, we will make sure to try to implement the fixed medical system in such a way that it becomes as harmful as possible to those covered by the scheme, and that one gets to correct the distortions that it might lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e489	There has been tradition in this house that the Progress Party and the Right have been in front and in front of the public health service innovation and improvement. We have been given free hospital choice, we have improved the patient rights law – although it is not quite good enough – and we have received input-based funding, and we also had it back for a while with the three-month guarantee for hospital treatment. In the present setting, when the Right is now in the government position, I believe that the Right Reconciliation and follow-up of previous positions is absent. And I'm taking an example, which we've been dealing with in the past, that of effort-based financing, where the Right in Government by a solid majority in the government college could not reach this percentage to 60 pst. It was the Progress Party that had this percentage moved up to 55 after the press. Another thing that I can't find from the government parties in this setting is this about non-discrimination between private and public health services. There has been a case for the Right for many years as full as for the Progress Party, but when you had the opportunity to do something about it in the government in which the Right now sits, you haven't done it. And then my question to the representative Bent Höie is: does the representative Bent Höie feel comfortable with the budgetary position that exists, where the Right Policy is almost absent?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e498	First, on behalf of former colleagues present, I must be allowed to thank John Alvheim for the boast he gave in relation to the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed to be at the forefront of health policy. When it comes to the question of whether I can be aware of the budget I have been in, I would say: absolutely. As I was in the room, we have increased the ISF funding from 50 to 55 pst. I think that's good, given that you've done this over a few weeks, and that the goal was 60 pst. After all, we have all the ambitions that this government will be allowed to work for a few years and thus have something better time than just a few weeks to implement its policy. In the area of non-discrimination in private and public hospitals, some important steps have been taken. Among other things, it is stated in Additional Proposition No. 4 that the Government aims to come back again with schemes to ensure that the free hospital choice also includes private hospitals that have contracts with regional health establishments. Today, this applies only to public hospitals and district psychiatric centres located within and outside the patient’s residence group. In a number of areas where I have been involved – intervention-driven funding, patient rights, anti-drug interventions, etc. – there is clear leadership to implement much of the policies that the Right and the Progressive Party have agreed on in the past and for which there is now a broad political majority in the UK. As I was in my reply to Alvheim, I therefore also believe that the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Government, has the greatest opportunity to implement much of the health policy that has been under way in the years that have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e509	An overall social committee is concerned about the development of sick leave in Norwegian working life. Some parties have suggested tightening the sick pay scheme as a means of reducing sick leave. SV disagrees that this is an important and appropriate instrument. We've always said that it's the social conditions that are the key to turning this negative trend around. Therefore, it is positive that the social partners and the Government have now entered into an intention agreement on a more inclusive working life, which aims at reducing sick leave by 20 pst. by 2005 at the latest. I believe that the right-wing government party is also committed to that agreement. But I'm going to be somewhat questionable when I read Right-wing remarks in the budgetary position we're dealing with today. That's what it says. «infringements must be considered in the legislation on sick pay payments if the objectives of the agreement concluded between the social partners are not met». This is an agreement that has a long-term perspective, up to 2005, and the comments in the 2002 budget position can be interpreted as if the Right will already assess reductions in the sick pay scheme as early as next year if the sick leave is not sufficiently reduced. My first question to the representative Bent Höie will then be: Will the Right provide the social partners with work during that period of the agreement, without coming up with threats of tightening up the health pay system? NHO Director Olav Magnussen went high on the track in the newspaper last Thursday and demanded that a reduction in sick pay be introduced now in order to ‘give governments the economy a boost for the weakest’. In other words, it's the sick who's going to pay to get us a lift for the poor. My second question to the representative Höie will then be as follows: Do you share these views with the Right, and does the Government Party think that this play is a constructive way by the NHO to follow up the recently concluded Memorandum of Understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e525	Initially, I would like to say that it must be quite clear that the right is behind the intention agreement that has been concluded. It is of great importance that the objectives and measures set out in the Memorandum of Understanding be followed up by all the parties to the Agreement, because we clearly have a common need for greater control of sick leave. It may not be right for a country such as Norway to have sick leave at that level and with that development. This is not good for the individual employee, because it indicates that there is something wrong. It's not good for the employer, and at least it's not good for society. So that must be the answer to the first question. On the second question, I'm a little surprised, because in the SV's alternative budget in the budgetary position, I've seen it as if SV has just followed the NHO's advice. Unlike the government parties, the Socialist Left Party reduces sick pay by 325 million. kr, which they redistribute to other groups. In fact, if the Government Parties and the Advance Party had done so, the entire Memorandum of Understanding would have been in danger, for SV follows the advice of the NHO and collects these funds in advance, thereby jeopardising the Memorandum of Understanding. So the question really has to be returned to SV: what makes SV take such a big chance to finance their election vows?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e534	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e537	I can start by answering the question from Höie. As Höie knows, the items on sick pay payments are estimates. This means that, on the government side, the expenditure you will receive will be calculated on the basis of the underlying assumptions, namely the nature of the measures taken to reduce sick leave. Höie has not studied thoroughly enough what we have done. In the notes to the chapter. 2600 The Social Security Agency argues for a significant strengthening of item 1, in the order of 250 million. kr, related to follow-up of patients in health queues. It's not just sick people, it's the group in total. But by putting increased resources there, we're calculating savings in other areas. We have also argued with regard to the increase in intra-corporate redeployment, in order to be able to reduce the need, among other things. for the payment of reinsurance. But you have to look at the whole chain of measures. If it were the case that the different approaches of the parties to the State budget were not to have an impact on the estimates, it would be the same as saying that different forms of policy action did not have any effect at all, and that, of course, they do. So depending on what you choose to do, you're going to have different outcomes. And we don't argue this because SV goes in to reduce sick pay payments to those who are entitled to it, but that's because we calculate that the need for the kind of payments will be reduced as a consequence of the policy we put up. But enough about it, so far. SV records that the total payments in the two areas we're responsible for, i.e. the framework areas 15 and 16, are now approaching NOK 230 billion, and that's a huge number that hardly anyone can imagine. The question to ask is whether it is a goal for a nation that the health budget should be the highest possible, or whether the opposite should be a goal. I personally tend more towards meaning the last. In many ways, there is a symptom in a society that is somehow unbalanced, when we see in the field by area that we need increased efforts, more resources, within the health care system to remedy damage that occurs. And it has so much surprised me when it comes to the Right Party's argument, and also to the Advance Party's argument, that precisely in the area of health, it seems to be an objective that the more resources you use, the better it is, as if it should not be an objective to reduce the need to use resources. I was yesterday at a conference organized by the Council of Psychiatric Health. I registered that the Council of State also attended the Høybråten, and I am pleased about that. The conference was interesting and rewarding in several ways. Because what is suddenly being given attention to, to which attention is being given, is the cause and effect of a society that is so much in transition that more and more people are developing mental illness. I especially noticed the lecture to psychiatrist Finn Skarderud, where he so strongly emphasized the emphasis of stability around people as a way of caring for them. And if we look at the society we're living in today, and what a big change we're in, it shouldn't surprise any of us that people are having problems dealing with this society. Insecurity is created, you have an experience of falling short, and then you need health care. From this point of view, what is happening in the Committee on Transport these days, and the treatment that has taken place there, may not be immaterial given the kind of disease that might arise from the mental nature of the disease. When, without involving the trade unions, without giving them an opportunity to participate in a process, significant changes must be made by both the NSB, the Post Office, the Aviation Agency and the ferry companies – in so far as the major changes we see within the health sector as such – we must take inwards that too many of these changes go so quickly that they feel insecure for their own situation, for the family situation, for what it entails for the economy, and then the health budget is determined as a consequence. And that means that when we discuss the health budget, we can't isolate ourselves just look at what we're doing, we have to see it in a larger context. What kind of communities do we want? How do we create security for the people who live in this society? And how does a society that is inclusive and warm when we take care of each other? SV has been concerned, especially in the case of psychiatry, that more and more efforts should have been made to step up the situation for children and young people, and, in particular, efforts should be made where people live. What we see today, especially with regard to the hospital sector, is the enormous resources it brings with it, while often relatively modest measures in the municipalities can have such an impact. I've probably mentioned it before, but I want to re-explain the experience of my own municipality of residence, where, in its time, the recruitment of psychiatric nurses, which is a modest resource effort. All of a sudden, you get access to specialised personnel — even in the homes of the individual sick, perhaps just children and young people, or to the elderly — in a very flexible way and at once the need arises, instead of waiting, perhaps for several months, for a highly specialised outpatient clinic or a psychiatric hospital, and on the way there, the patient gets worse. When we are going to create a health service offering that focuses on equivalence, it is fundamental for SV that much of that effort is being made in municipalities, because perhaps a smaller resource effort that could give larger counts. We in SV are pleased that we have had an impact on the implementation of a law on mental health protection in order to look at changes that make the responsibilities of health professionals related to the treatment of drug users clearer. What you've been up to now has been in many ways a response to drug addicts, in such a way that you've often defined it out of the healthcare system and said that this is a responsibility for the social services. But it is quite obvious that the professional competence is not present at the social offices. It cannot be expected that a social curator will be able to address all aspects of the treatment needs of a drug addict. At the same time, the social protection law today does not provide the basis for action against drug users, ever against their will. Therefore, in our view, such a review of the law is very necessary, and we are pleased that the Stortinget is asking the Government to carry out that review. What is also seen today, a type of treatment for drug addicts that concerns us in SV. It was recently reported in the daily newspaper that methadone users who became pregnant continued their treatment with methadone and subsequently received treatment for the child due to withdrawal symptoms. It must be wrong. It must be wrong to have a social development that regards the unborn child as a therapeutic drug for the drug addict to get out of his/her abuse, rather than being concerned about keeping the person pregnant, drug-free — if at all against his/her will — until the child is born — in order to safeguard the child’s interests. It can't be right to have a society where these children are being sacrificed and become a therapeutic drug, which is methadone, in order to achieve drug freedom. I would like to say that this is just an example of the need for a different type of law to address such issues. I also demand a greater degree of awareness among health professionals to prevent such things from happening. I have to say I was shocked by colleagues who said in the newspaper that it is relatively easy to treat newborns for withdrawal symptoms. This does not indicate a very high degree of professional integrity with which to meet the challenges. It is well documented that there is a close link between drug use and availability. I have to say that it is surprising that the Christian People's Party has now been involved in a reduction in alcohol charges. It looks like there's a great need to put what you have of knowledge into practical political action. It will certainly also apply in other areas, including the use of drugs. We have been too short in Norway, but perhaps we have also been less responsive to the professional environment as to what kind of measures should be taken to reduce, among other things. overdose deaths. It is also alarming that reports of overdose deaths are now being received in which the person who has died has only been diagnosed with methadone in the blood. SV is pleased that a majority are asking for the improvement of housing provision in the municipalities of drug users and that a decision has been taken by the Social Committee in which the Government is asked to contribute to the provision of financial resources for whole action packages covering a comprehensive care and treatment provision for drug users. We also want to invest more resources in drug treatment and to target interventions on the prevention side, in the hope that fewer drug users can be given over time. SV has also called for the coordination of the social, labour and social security budgets of a single public body through a national meeting decision. We are pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to address the issue of a common public agency for the social, labour and social security sectors. There has been a lot of talk about the transformation of the public sector, but this is a kind of transformation that can really matter to the individual. What has unfortunately been seen in too many municipalities is that different people who have needed social assistance have become caste balls between the different floors. Perhaps it has started with the fact that you have been unemployed and then lose the right to a day’s allowance. Perhaps he is ill and cannot come back to work. You stay out of the labour market for a long time, no longer get sick money and have to go and get social assistance. There's going to be a canoeing session between these agencies, where you kind of pull your shoulders a little bit and say this isn't my responsibility. Then there is no comprehensive solution for the individual applicant, where the three different agencies coordinate to ensure that he can become the most self-held person possible and re-enter society. Coordination could contribute to this in the SV’s view. In the case of the fixed medical device, I have recorded the great resistance that some people have to it. However, just as SV sees it as important once the state has been chosen to take over the hospitals, to be constructive in order to make the state take over the best possible way, it must be important to have the fixed medical system become the most appropriate system for the whole population as quickly as possible. It may not be appropriate to undermine schemes that have been adopted and in which large costs have been invested in order to achieve them. For this reason, SV sees it as a major challenge to organise recruitment activities in municipalities, so that the maximum number of people can be identified even where recruitment difficulties are currently at work. And SV sees it as a major challenge to organise good municipal medical care systems. It is quite obvious – there is Alvheim’s right – that the agreement concluded between the Medical Association and the State was too bad at that point. It was not taken into account the need for municipalities to continue to have well-organised medical services. It cannot be resolved by the fixed medical device alone. In the cold water of the fixed medical system, we see that there are now major problems in recruiting for social medical positions. Over 30 pst. of the posts of assistant county doctors are unoccupied, and a number of municipalities are struggling to recruit to the municipal I positions. You have to focus on the reasons for that, and try to do something about it. It would not be useful if society did not have an active tool both in county medical offices and in the municipalities to identify what the medical situation is in a social perspective and to ensure professionalism in that area as well. For this reason, I am also pleased that the Committee together is asking the Government to review the situation of the socio-medical disciplines, both in terms of professional development and in terms of recruitment. SV has always wanted us to start dental training in Tromsø. We used to be alone about it, but we record that more and more parties are in favour of it. We hope that the Government in some form will take the initiative that dental training will now begin. It's worrying that there are so many recruitment difficulties, especially the district councils are struggling to get hold of dentists. And from the point of view of SV, one should have taken action with regard to dentists to coordinate the private dental care and the public dental care service to play a team for a better service for the users. This is why we need the big message that SV has asked for, with which the government is going to return to Stortinget in terms of dental care in general. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which SV has or is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e584	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e590	Alternatives to abortion in Norway are an organisation providing advice to pregnant women who, for various reasons, are unsure whether to provide the child. Unfortunately, some women are pressured into abortion by the family or by the child; there may be other factors involved, such as economics, studies, or simply uncertainty about being alone about responsibility. The AAN Foundation provides assistance and advice during pregnancy if you decide to keep the child. After birth, AAN disposes of volunteers who assist with babysitting when necessary and often contribute to the lending of babysitting and other aids. Many women who have doubts about abortion often experience serious mental problems later. In this context, support is also provided. My questions to the representative Ballo are as follows: Why has SV removed the entire support, $12.1 million. kr, to AAN? Does the representative Ballo not see the important prevention work the organisation is contributing? When we know that the public service provider fails to make similar offers, it is a wish that the representative, Ballo, tells who these women would contact in the future if the SV had received an impact on their proposal, which would lead to the offer being lost. Otherwise, I would like to support the representative of Ballo in what he mentioned when it came to the daily newspaper and the treatment of pregnant drug users with methadone. I fully support the criticism that came there, and I hope this is taken quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e603	I would first like to thank you for your support. I think that the social committee has an important role to play across party-political divisions when there are some issues that you can kind of see that you can't be involved. I think it's good that it gets underlined. In the case of AAN, SV, after having given appropriations in the past, has thought about what kind of information we want for pregnant women who are seeking abortion. We want that information to be as neutral as possible in life's vision and to be done in public. In my view, the decision-maker should play a key role, because he will often contact the doctor as a consequence of the pregnancy, and because it will be the doctor who would like to forward the papers to the hospital where it will be relevant that the abortion should be carried out. It may also be a matter of time, as an alternative, that he is talking to a midwife. But our resource effort will be public. It is absolutely right that the public has given too little, for different information. The quality has been too poor, but I take that as a sign that there should be an increase in public resource use. I think what AAN is doing can be commendable to many groups, but at the same time, the organisation must secure funds in ways other than through budgetary appropriations. We believe that those resources should go to the public to ensure the quality of the information – that it is holistic, that it is not based on fundamental attitudes, values of the abortion law itself, but on a life-view neutral approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e610	The representative, Ballo, says that it is important that the information you receive in assessing whether to have an abortion or not to have an abortion is as neutral as possible. The representative, Mr Ballo, said that attention has been paid to life-seen-neutral information, and then there has been an increase in entry 71 Supplements to information measures, prevention of unwanted pregnancy. The problem is that SV and the representative of Ballo have made sure that this area – i.e. items 71 and 72, both AAN and information measures – is reduced by 8 million. kr. That is, there is significantly less money in the system to be able to take care of this very important task. And it's a fact that AAN in Norway has a very important task. It is an established organisation that is highly esteemed and highly respected. So here SV has an explanation problem, based on its rationale. So one more problem that I am asking for the representative, Ballo, to make some comments. I sit and look at the comparable proposals in the budget – and then it goes on the figures budget. We know that SV has been opposed to input-driven funding, but is it not a little strange to reduce the way SV does in terms of input-driven funding, to spread it far beyond all possible other fields, and also to ensure that hospitals have less money to treat patients with? The representative, Mr Ballo, mentions that we have to deal with the decisions taken by the Stortinget, and then refers to the permanent reform, but when is the representative, Mr Ballo, going to deal with the decisions taken in the area of intervention finance and state acquisition of hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e621	The amount that we cut off. 719 item 72, which is the foundation of AAN, is 12.1 million. kr. That amount is returned to items 21 and 71, where we allocate it to grants for information measures and to grants for health promotion and prevention actions in the health and social sector. And when we also use it in the other sector, i.e. entry 21, we do it because it's not a point that you should only inform when unwanted pregnancy has occurred, but it's a point to prevent unwanted pregnancy from happening at all. That is why we want to strengthen, among other things. the funds related to the Youth Service Office, for guidance at health stations under the direction of midwives and health sisters and for the use of resources there. Then you can always discuss where you get the greatest effect. That is what the whole debate on the state budget is all about. It's a resource effort – and that's to the extent that part two of Nesvik's questions. What I pointed out in my post – perhaps not clearly enough, because I didn't have time to talk about the hospital sector – was that I think there's all sorts of reason for all the parties to be concerned about the huge growth we're now seeing in the hospital sector. There is a great deal of evidence that input-driven funding contributes to much of that growth. What SV does is much more to put resources into the municipalities. When Nesvik sees that we're reducing from 50 pst. to 45 pst. and spends more than DKK 1.25 billion in other areas, he has to sum up the expenditure and see that most of it is returned to the hospital sector. However, some of them are targeted, including: in hospital, with 100 million. kr, and on various measures in the area of psychiatry in the municipalities to prevent the high need for hospitalisation, and measures in the field of specialist health services. So we're doing something with the whole chain that's going to make it unnecessary to use resources at such high levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e630	Sometimes when you take a line, you hope to get a special answer. This time I got it. That's why I'm going to ask another question to the representative Ballo, because Ballo now stood on this pulpit and talked about the huge growth in the hospital sector, and that we have to do something here. It is strange that the representative Ballo, together with some others, has made a proposal to cover all the county's expenditure in a final settlement in connection with the state acquisition of the hospitals. Then you look at the whole sector according to the municipality's interest. What has been promoted in this context by the Progress Party is that, among other things: shall cover up exactly what is going on in the patient treatment itself, while the representative Ballo in Document No. The 8-proposal where he is a co-proposal has not specified what should be covered. Is this not a signal that expenditure increases in the health sector have just not been taken seriously? It's not just what goes on treating patients, which creates the enormous costs. The Progress Party has also said that. We also need to look at the organisation of these companies. The state takeover itself does not solve health problems. We have to see that in the context of the organizational part. But why, among other things, do you want to do so? SV is in favour of all expenditure being covered – at least this is how I understood the representative of Ballo in the media – in connection with the state acquisition? Here I think SV has an explanation problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e635	It's possible that attack is the best defense. What is remarkable, however, is not that SV wants to provide support to county councils to cover their deficits, so that other measures that are needed can be implemented. That's what this is all about. How do you take care of high school in a proper way, where you don't have a hard debt to carry on? How do you take care of cultural services in a proper way, where you don't have a hard debt to carry on with? How are the road services provided in the various counties, including in the representative's home counties, Møre and Romsdal, handled in a decent way? That's the questions. What the Progress Party manages in an incredible way is to withdraw from that debate – perhaps because you are against the county council, I don't know – by saying that you shouldn't clear up the debt that county councils are now struggling with when the state takes over the hospitals. Document No The 8 proposal that has been presented, where SV is co-sponsored with the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, is exactly the starting point. It would be a completely destructive approach if you say that because the states have accumulated debt as a result of having run the hospitals, they get it as well as the state takes over. It is not the individual state politician – even if you should have a lot against them, I do not have it personally, but it is possible that others have – that is affected by it. It's the population of these states that's affected by it. Therefore, it is of course very important for SV that we now enable the county councils to carry out their other tasks properly. I have registered that the right before has been concerned about the same thing. I hope the government will eventually come back with a debt cancellation plan for the states, so that you get vital states also now that the state will drive the hospitals further. That is the issue of Document No. The 8 is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e645	One can safely say that the government has had a full impact on its policy, when one has only moved 33 million. NOK in a budget of nearly NOK 232 billion. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that a priority is given to the efforts of the weakest and those who have the most difficulty. It means a lot too soon that the children's supplement in the population's fear increases by 10 pst. and gives an increase of more than NOK 5000 per year. Children per day years. The extra cost is $81 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Workers' Party. For families dependent on social assistance in a difficult situation, it is important that cash support is excluded. When we dealt with the defrosting message, all the parties, except the Progress Party, agreed on this. Now the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SW have turned around. This is difficult to understand, as an evaluation of the cash support makes it clear that it has been economically smoothing. It is good that the Government has ambitions to prevent poverty and poverty, and to make an action plan against poverty. It is important to evaluate current welfare measures. Are they good enough? Should we have some new ones? For the Christian People's Party, welfare policy is about security and dignity. For most of us, taking responsibility for our own lives means taking responsibility for ourselves and our closest ones. Someone falls outside and needs help to do everyday life. There are nearly 800 people in methadone queue. A reinforcement of 26.5 million. kr will remedy the situation. At the same time, 55 million is granted. To provide a low threshold of health care to drug users. This offer is transferred to the Ministry of Health from next year. The Christian People's Party believes this makes it clear that no one can waive responsibility. Unfortunately, Norway is the country with the most overdose deaths. Users of both alcohol and drugs are getting younger. It is positive that the Government will draw up an action plan on drug problems. Prevention is very central, but it is also important to maintain the goal of making users drugfree. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the major health reforms – such as cancer plan, psychiatry plan and reforms in hospital equipment – are being followed up to ensure predictability. An extension of the ISF scheme from 50 to 55 pst. at the same time as the removal of the crypt will result in multiple patients being treated. The Christian People's Party sees the need for a comprehensive review of hospital appropriations in the revised national budget in the light of the experience gained after the state has taken over the specialist health service. By constructive cooperation with the Progress Party, it was increased by 20.5 million. NOK to increase the price of our training establishments. It's exciting that a joint committee will give 10 million dollars. kr to test a therapeutic vaccine that can provide hope for patients with HIV and AIDS. The majority support the proposal of the Labour Party Government to wind up public support for artificial conception of the childless. An overall committee said this when we processed the valuation. Priority is often painful, and we have all received e-mails and letters from frustrated couples who want their own children. Finally, I would like to stress the need for more hospice places. It's positive that the cancer plan has set at 50 million. to regional hospitals to build centres of expertise for relieving treatment, and to find room to strengthen the budget by 20 million. kr to set up several hospice sites in 2002. Most people want to be close to their families when they come to the end of life. The aim must be to facilitate hospice in the neighbourhood – in the municipalities. The provision of incurably ill and dying must be integrated into the usual healthcare system. Pain management and relief of symptoms are important, but one should not forget that the patient has a complete need. In addition to physical and mental needs, it is equally important that spiritual and existential needs are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e678	We have left behind an election campaign where voters clearly expressed the fear that the sickness pay scheme could be weakened in the growing period we are now in. However, as I perceived the final question in the election campaign, I got the understanding that no parties would touch the sickness pay scheme. On the other hand, a general agreement was reached between the social partners on the reduction of sick leave. That's why I'm very concerned when I read the comments of the government parties and the Advance Party, where it's stated that «infringements must be considered in the legislation on sick pay payments if the objectives of the agreement concluded between the social partners are not met». Does what it says here mean that the Christian People's Party is prepared to introduce the withdrawal or reduction of sick pay during this period, as is also stated in the Christian People's Party's programme? Or will the Christian People's Party be a guarantor that this will not happen? If the Bondevik government is prepared to introduce a reduction in sick pay payments, as stated in the comments of the government parties, does the representative Woie Duesund share my opinion that in that case the voters will be led behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e688	Firstly, I would like to say to the representative Britt Hildeng that the voters have not been deceived by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party does not have on its program that it should be a Karen's Day. We've gone away from it. We had it in the past, but we've seen that it could have unfortunate consequences, not least for women and the long-term unemployed. The representative Hildeng can trust that the Christian People's Party will follow up the Memorandum of Understanding concluded with the NHO and the LO. What has been said is that if the objectives are not achieved, one should consider restrictive measures does not mean that one does not adhere to an intentional agreement. Nor have we touched the sick money now in the budget, to stick to that goal. At the same time, it is important that we address the major problems of designing jobs so that people stay and not get sick. There we have a great job to do, and the government is doing well to follow up the unemployed and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e694	I have to make a little comment on the previous replicator's question to the Christian People's Party, because it's almost incredible that the Workers' Party is bringing the sick pay and the election campaign back on track, after the history of the sick pay, but it's okay to try it out. I want to take up another matter that the Christian People's Party was very strongly involved in the election campaign, and it was the fight for the old and sick, for pensioners, and the opportunity to secure these a safe everyday life, as well as the struggle for self-esteem in health care. And then it's kind of strange what came in addition number. 4 to the budget, for the government of Stoltenberg had actually taken a positive action to help sick and elderly people in this country, by exempting disability pensioners and old-age pensioners from the excesses of medicines and care articles on blue prescription. This was the first Bondevik II removed when they came into government. In addition, it is strange that government parties are, in fact, the only ones outside a proposal that social security schemes should be regulated at least in line with the wage and price developments elsewhere in society. In the same way, you're outside when, for example, you're outside. The very important Alzheimer’s medicine, Aricept and Remicade, is concerned with getting that piece of funding in place. Government parties are outside the region by region. Does the representative of the Christian People's Party, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, think that this is in line with the social profile that you wanted to put on? Doesn't she think you should give a little more to those who really need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e705	The representative Harald Nesvik wondered if the Christian People's Party had kept its electoral promises. In the election campaign, the Christian People's Party, like others, said that we should not increase the propensity. In the position, we've actually gone further, we've reduced the pros and cons by $1,350, which is even better than what we promised in the election campaign. When we did not at first go in order that the disabled and the elderly would not pay for medications on the blue prescription, it was because we thought it was very little targeted. That would mean that all pensioners would not pay any excess. And it's lucky that more pensioners now have better advice and opportunity to pay a visit to the doctor when they need it. But what's important is we've turned around. We are in favour of this proposal now. So that's not what the representative Nesvik says, that we're not in that arrangement. When it comes to the social profile, I think it's important to remember that it was the government of Bondevik I who actually made a raise for the minimum pensioners by giving them an extra thousand kroner, so that 130,000 minimum pensioners got a better everyday life. In addition, the Bondevik I government looked at the guidelines to regulate the G amount, because it had been subject for several years while the Workers' Party was in government. When we don't want to go into it, it's because we don't think the Storting should go in and overtake real negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e716	All the way at the bottom of the last big session in our promotion three of the big crowd representatives from the Christian People's Party a Document No. 8-proposals aimed at implementing measures to bring healthcare professionals back to their occupations. The party's leader, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, was also co-sponsor with Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and Are Næss – the two representatives of the Christian People's Party at that time had in the Social Committee. Unfortunately – also for SV’s part – the proposals made by the Christian People’s Party were not received by the majority, but there was not much to do. A minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, agreed that the Stortinget should ask the Government, on the basis of the Action Plan for Health professionals 1998-2001, to speedily promote proposals for concrete measures that could bring healthcare professionals back to their professions. The proposal is a little longer, but those who want to see the full wording of the proposal will find it in the budgetary position on page 86, as proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The only difference is that in the original proposal, a comma has crept in behind the word 2001 – otherwise the proposal is completely identical to the proposal that the Christian People's Party participated in taking the initiative in ours. So now it is the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre that are co-sponsors of this proposal. But the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal they themselves initiated in the spring of 2001. Had they done so, it would now have been given a majority, and the Christian People's Party would have had its Document No. Eight proposals. I'd like to ask Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund about the reason why you're not in favour of a proposal that is completely identical to what they themselves initiated just a few months ago. Is it this decimal that now prevents the Christian People's Party from voting in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e725	I think it is good that the SV and the Christian People's Party have come together on many good welfare measures. This in turn has led to the need for more health professionals, because we have many unsolved tasks. I think it is even more gratifying that an overall committee agrees with that Document No. The 8-proposal, which I helped promote in ours, that we should do more to recruit and keep health professionals. Then a joint committee says, and here we all agree, and that's why we're there, that it's important and "necessary with both concrete recruitment measures and stabilisation measures in the form of attractive employment and wages". When we promoted Document No. The 8 proposal was much of the reason that there are so many nurses who have completed their education, who do not choose to go back to their profession. Something that has been tried in the meantime, including in Akershus, you have had an update course, and 90 pst. of those who have attended that course have returned to their occupations. It's important. It is also important that we have started decentralised nurse training in order to obtain more. We're also trying to recruit from other countries to get enough nurses. Here we stand together in the fight to implement the reforms with enough health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e735	The budget position of the Social Committee with the framework areas 15 and 16 amounts to approximately NOK 230 billion. 40 pst. by the State budget for 2002. About 75 pst. the expenditure is related to public security. The centre party prioritised its alternative state budget in the harvest prevention, which we believe is very important if we are to create a healthier society in which everyone can get their fair share of well-being without spending on the social and health sector taking all the money off and growing above the head. Repair and treatment will continue to be important and constitute major expenditure items in our social and health budgets, but the instruments need to be put in place more early in order to reduce the need for these expenditures. The introduction of a precautionary principle in health and social policy is essential. In order to succeed, resources need to be deployed in prevention and measures to prevent exclusion, poverty, disease and damage. The centre party believes that good and safe growth conditions for children and young people are the best investment we can make in prevention. Safe and good growing conditions are created primarily in the community of individuals, whether they are urban or rural. Politically and administratively, this is the responsibility and area of the municipalities, but we, as national politicians, must ensure that the municipal sector is able to carry out these important tasks properly. It is therefore regrettable that not much more people see what a good local economy can mean in the longer term in terms of savings and in relation to repair measures that other levels of government will have to do and pay for later. The lowest effective care level, the so-called LEON principle, was in times past a central concept in the health sector. This principle can be transferred to more than one area and should be the basis for disposal and prioritisation in an expanded and comprehensive care policy. In this context, it is also important to include voluntary work and voluntary and user-oriented organisations. Within the field of volunteering, a major and important work must be carried out by the public, and not least by the state, to play along with and to support. The central party has therefore prioritised this through its draft budget, inter alia. by increasing support to pensioners’ and user organisations’ and volunteering centres. The centre party does not wish to have a standardised and centralised care exposure in terms of prevention or repair. However, the need for diversity and local adaptations and needs must develop within the framework of the equivalent. This is a good example of work within the volunteer centres. Local needs are given priority here. Here the generations meet and assist each other for good and pleasure, and here the practice of equal work and help for self-help is done in a good and natural way. The centre party is concerned about the evolution we see in parts of the child and youth environment. Children living in difficult conditions, the so-called poor children, have recently been a central theme, not least in the election campaign. At that time, there was a great deal of commitment to most people. Therefore, it is disappointing that no more follow-up is needed to enable immediate action to be taken. Through its proposals in Document No, the Centre Party: 8:2 for 2001-2002 suggested several points which, in our opinion, had deserved to be majorityd, but at the same time we are pleased that, as a result of this Document No. The 8th proposal, today a decision is taken to ask the Government to ensure that the use of residential accommodation for families with children ceases. Furthermore, we are pleased with the decision taken yesterday in connection with the treatment of the education budget, which states that primary school must be free of charge without self-interest. It is a decision in line with what the Central Party has proposed. Developments in the field of drug use are very worrying. The increase in the number of users, and not least in the number of young users, is alarming. Information on a dramatic increase in alcohol consumption for the 15- to 20-year-olds shows that beer, wine and spirits remain the source of major problems in the area, and often alcohol abuse leads to abuse of other drugs as well and is the entry key to this. The cooperative government’s response to this is a reduction in alcohol by 350 million. kr without proposing a similar commitment to prevention and reduction of abuse. Where is the Christian People's Party and their former position in one of their real brands? The Centre Party wishes to strengthen prevention and the efforts to reduce abuse through, inter alia: strengthening the organisations and institutions involved in such work. We have therefore proposed an increase in the budget for this, by 36 million. kr. In our view, it is very important that efforts to reduce drug use and the number of drug users are followed up by a set of measures. Provision of housing, education, work and through this a social network is very important if people are to be able to get out of the abuse. It is not enough to refer to medical treatment as the major problem solver. Such treatment can only be successful if it is accompanied by social measures, so that the drug user is able to cope with a different and better life situation. The fact that the medical treatment part of the care system is now becoming the responsibility of the healthcare system, we should not go against it. But the Center Party will warn against solving all the problems with it. Among other things, the health services, social services, education and labour market services need to work closely together to find comprehensive solutions that, in total, can provide a rehabilitation system for drug-freedom and a better and more independent life. The centre party also believes that much remains to be done to strengthen the situation of people with disabilities for a better and more independent life. We believe it is unworthy and unacceptable that younger people should live in an elderly institution if they themselves want to move out. Furthermore, we believe that more resources should be allocated to the scheme of personal assistants for the disabled by increasing this grant. Unfortunately, there will not be a majority for that, as the government parties and the Progress Party are moving towards such a 5 million increase. kr. The Central Party expects, inter alia: These conditions in their entirety are re-examined in an overall review of the condition of the disabled when the Manneråk Committee’s position ‘From user to citizen’ is submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. The centre party also wants to support the habilitation work initiated by the Petø methodology. Many positive feedback from the parents group to these users suggests that this offer should be developed, inter alia. in Hamar, where it has now become an environment for such habilitation activities. Unfortunately, it is only the Workers' Party and we who have earmarked funds for such extra reinforcement. The centre party is deeply concerned about the provision of rehabilitation and training. Most of the country’s training institutions are struggling with poor finances, and others have also ceased their activities in recent times. The economic problems are largely the result of under-currency from the state. When the patient share was made equal for everyone and set at NOK 190 per person. daily, the income variations were very limited and the country has not followed up on an increase in its curative coverage. The centre party has supported the system of a similar proportion, and now also supports a reduction from NOK 190 to NOK 150. Compensation for this reduction has been entered in this budget by 30 million. kr, but the Central Party believes there is a need for a further increase in the state's grant if we are to manage to secure the rehabilitation offer we have today. In our alternative state budget, we proposed 100 million. kr of increased grants to approved training institutions. By adapting to the final budget framework and trying to reach a compromise with a majority solution, we adjusted this to 78 million. NOK 3 million. kr is granted to the four special health institutions to compensate for the additional costs of the pension insurance scheme and SEK 75 million. kr is granted to approved training institutions in Group I and Group II. It is disappointing to note that the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, have not found to be able to grant more than 20,5 million. kr. An increase of 75 million. kr is also smaller than the training institutions themselves requested, but would, in our opinion, have been a useful increase until the Government came back with a modified, more predictable and sufficient funding solution for this activity. Work on a proper financing and quality assurance plan for the training area has also been asked in the past by Stortinget, and it is disappointing that this has not been achieved before. Now there is a special responsibility on the sitting government to get this done before we lose even more of our rehabilitation services. I would like as much as I can stress the seriousness of this situation and ask the Government to make proposals for improved financing at the latest in the revised national budget for spring. There has been a great deal of focus on waiting lists and treatment queues for our hospitals, but it is also important that pre-treated patients have a training and rehabilitation offer, so that they can recover optimal functionality. It will be worthwhile both for the individual patient who has such needs, and it will not least be positive for society and the public economy. When disease or injury occurs, it is good prevention for future rehabilitation in a proper way. It is disappointing that the sitting government does not realize this. It is also remarkable that this government, which speaks so positively about the private actors in health care, cannot contribute more strongly to the fact that the private training institutions that have been part of our health care for a long time, and which have largely worked very well, should not get better operating conditions for those who need rehabilitation and training. The centre party believes there is a need for an extended rehabilitation offer, and the government believes that the plans for Røros Rehabilitation Centre and also clarify the development plans available in East Agder must be followed up. With regard to the reform of the elderly, we will stress the importance of completing it so that all municipalities that now need to be developed are covered by the arrangements that the reform has. The reform needs to be further developed and expanded both quantitatively and qualitatively, so that the coverage in all municipalities reaches 25 pst. of the population over 80 years of age. In addition, local authorities must be encouraged to give priority to health care facilities and day care. Elder reform has become too much of a housing reform. Therefore, we need to focus more on the content and quality of care and also be aware that open and home-based care is important if older people are to have freedom of choice and can live at home as long as they want and have opportunities for doing so. The elderly, even with reduced working capacity, shall have the freedom of choice and the possibility of an independent and meaningful life if they choose to live at home or to move to a nursing home or a nursing home. In this context, it is also important that local authorities have sufficient resources. The quality of care services and the provision of health services for this group needs to be improved considerably in many cases, but we as the granting authority must also take responsibility and priority. The centre party wants to see this whole field in a context when the New Year Government presents a case on the follow-up to the retirement plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e797	The centre party, along with SV, is sad that the Christian People's Party should have changed its alcohol policy. If it was right, there was of course reason to take much stronger in it, because it is wrong. If we think about the struggles we have with the Center Party around the local government about their liberal grips on alcohol and open beer taps, this is actually a little special. There's often the Center Party, along with others, won. The reason why we're in favour of charging this time is because we want to support the Vinmonopolis in order to reduce the border trade and the illegal turnover if possible. But in this context, when the Central Party is critical to us, it's very interesting to record what the Vice President of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, said on November 12 in a radio debate, when she said more than all that every municipality should have its wine monopoly, at least. My question to the representative of the Central Party, in the light of their critical remark to us, is this: Is it the new profile of the Central Party in the alcohol policy that there should be a monopoly of wine in all municipalities, or is there a soloup from the Viceleader Navarsete that the party takes a distance from? I'm looking forward to a clarifying answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e806	I am not quite able to follow the Aaroe when he talks about local debates and local government. Clearly, there are different opinions in the UK about alcohol policy, as about so much else. But I think the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been quite united about most of the alcohol policy and how it should be practiced. In the case of light charging, the AAR justified the increased border trade and the risk of smuggling. They also said something about the wine monopoly. When our Vice President, Navarsete, in Sogn and Fjordane have talked about the Vinmonopolet and an offer of wine monopoly sales in all municipalities, it is precisely because we want to strengthen the situation of the Vinmonopolet, so that there is legal circulation of legal goods. It's the Central Party's policy. Then it has to be up to local self-government whether you want a wine monopoly or not. Then I expect that majority decisions also apply to both the Christian People's Party and us. But at least we are concerned that the wine monopoly should be strengthened. With regard to this tax bill, I find it interesting to see that even the government has admitted that cheaper prices and tax cuts will lead to increased consumption. And when we see headlines like what was said in the evening post last night, that ‘Youth is getting drunk more often’, and we see that alcohol consumption for 15 to 20-year-olds has increased twice in just a few years, it is clear that it is worrying. I remember quite well what the former representative of the drugstore Are Næss said about alcohol and the danger of it, and that increased alcohol use was the entrance ticket to all drug abuse. That is why I am very surprised that when the Government now does this cut in fees of 350 million kroner. - do not follow up on prevention, information and measures to reduce consumption. That's pretty remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e815	In contrast to the Progress Party, which will have a state responsibility for the care of the elderly and also the institutional care, the Centre Party has always been concerned with local democracy, which always makes matters better than state ownership and government governance. The parental reform is now coming to an end. We've spent NOK 26 billion, and we have a situation today with a worse health care coverage than we had when the reform started, and we actually have more than 10,000 elderly people in a nursing home queue. And we have this because, in my opinion, the municipalities have taken advantage of this reform in a completely unacceptable way, because they have based economic assessments and largely built only care homes, which do not cost the municipality anything. In Oslo, this is now outsourced, the start-up grant is lent to private entrepreneurs who restore and build care homes, while the four-time compensation supplement goes straight to the municipal register. Then my question to the representative Luttvold: Is this good governance, and has this been good governance in view of the plight of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e822	As I said in my post, I am concerned that there are too few sick places and too little happy day care and care in the municipalities. I am convinced, however, that local democracy should be what takes care of this, but I also believe that in the name of local democracy there have been mispriorities. And it's true, as the representative Alvheim says, that part of the care housing development is justified by the fact that there is a more reasonable solution for the municipalities. However, I believe that awareness of this has become much greater, and that is why I believe that when we are going to have a review of the entire reform of the elderly and the plans there, we need to put in the instruments that allow health care centres to be given priority now. The fact that the hospital coverage is almost worse today than it was before the older reform started is also due to the transformation of the two- and multi-bed room into a bed room, so we have some of the explanation there. When reference is made to the Municipality of Oslo, I agree with the description given by Alvheim. But here, too, we can get some surprises, because I'm familiar with the right hand side that runs the Municipality of Oslo, and it's a former FrP from this room that is largely responsible for part of the health and care business in Oslo. And then it's the way it's put up, as Alvheim described it. I think that the state should provide framework conditions and incentives for a proper local priority, and then it must be up to local authorities to organise according to local circumstances. However, it is clear that in that picture there must be several places of care for the lucky day and not least health places — and perhaps hospitals too, given some of the tasks that will be assigned to the primary health service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e834	I have noticed that Lukewarm in some contexts has expressed some scepticism in relation to the fixed medical system. At the same time, we see two challenges to be faced. One is to help recruit fixed doctors to the municipalities that have not now been filled with all their job homes. That's about. 170 unoccupied job homes. The second is to address the deficiencies that may exist in individual municipalities, and in particular Oslo is such a municipality, in terms of the medical care provision for the population in combination with the fixed medical system. SV is concerned that both of these areas should be a state responsibility, namely that government instruments are targeted at municipalities that are particularly struggling with the recruitment of permanent workers, and that the state is actively contributing to the strengthening of municipal medical services where they are needed. It is clear that municipalities can shave their expenditure based on the fixed medical system, but it will not be appropriate for the population, while some municipalities themselves have incurred large additional expenditure here without being compensated. I would therefore like to ask Joyfulness if the Centre Party will be actively involved in improving the system both in recruitment and in the actual medical care of the population, by standing on to correct the weaknesses that can be seen in the two fields that I have now mentioned. Is it possible to count on the support of the Centre Party to make the scheme work as well as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e843	That question could actually be answered with a yes, one can count on the support of the Center Party. I think it's a bit exasperated by the representative Ballo, because if he turns in today's position, he'll find several places where we agree on some of these things as well. And if the representative Ballo goes back to the processing of the emergency message in ours, he will also find there comments and recordings from the Center Party. We say, among other things: the cooperation of medical care systems and expensive arrangements for individual municipalities is something that the State should look into and go in and contribute resources to. In the case of ambulance services, this is the same. It is also part of the emergency services that we have to have in the districts, which are an interaction between primary health services and specialist health services, and which are too expensive if the municipalities themselves are to provide what is to be around and in front of the ambulance service. In the case of recruitment to, inter alia: The 170 job vacancies now available, we have said that the medical distribution system, which is far away, needs to be better and more fully aware of the need to strengthen the public health service in the districts. Interventions have been made in this context in relation to prioritisation between hospital doctors and general practitioners. I think the Senterparte has a very good scroll to refer to here, so I think we should still be able to agree on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e852	Before the President releases Glatvold, the President wonders whether the representative will make any proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e855	I expect the president to record that I had a short period of time in my post, but I had written on the bottom of that sheet that I should take up the suggestions that the Central Party is making. The other proposals for which we are co-sponsors, I think, have already been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e860	Ola D. Glötvold has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e863	First, I would like to say that the Left naturally supports its government budget and the proposals made in the position behind the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. I could now take an outline of things with which the Left is particularly content, and it could be quite a long story, but I would rather use my article to draw up a few things that, in our view, it is important to prioritize and continue to work with. Left thinks that human beings are unique, but different and want different solutions. Welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and, to a far greater extent, on the desire and needs of the individual. As a general rule, we require more flexible and individually customised services, which are available when we need them. A key challenge for both the health and care sectors in the future will be to have enough warm hands to provide care and care. For the health sector, it may be appropriate to have the right person in place, but also working conditions and ‘maintenance’ of those added are important. The rapid development of language technology will provide exciting opportunities for reducing costs for healthcare users and for much better use of human resources. To merge the social, social and labour market seats into one unit is something I have repeatedly expressed from this pulpit that the Left is in favour of. When you get into a difficult life situation, either you lose your job or your world, it becomes quite bureaucratic when one who today might have to enter four different public institutions to secure money for the most necessary. When, in a year's time, the social curators of the Grand Social Office take almost 3,000 decisions directed at 480 users, this shows how detailed we have made the auxiliaries. Instead of using the resources to sit with a calculator to calculate what a user is entitled to do, and then to print individual decisions about it, the social sector would rather use the competence to help users out of the difficult situation of life. For the Left, it is about giving everyone over 18 years of age a guaranteed minimum income, a minimum salary, and also about using public competences more effectively and letting the individual citizen be sure of a certain income. The left is very pleased that the Government is proposing more to those with the least in the world today. Doing something for them is the most important thing – not to cultivate jealousy against which neither vaccination nor medicine has been used. An increase in the children's supplement, an increase in the amount of light and heat, an increase in the upper limit and an increase in the rate of the minimum deduction are all benefits to those who have the least. The left says that statements directly directed at children should not be curtailed because if parents receive social assistance. We record that there is a number of people who think that the cash support should be included in the income base of the social welfare seeker. I have to say that I am very disappointed in the party that has changed vision in this matter. In the spring, I agreed to propose a crisis plan to reduce the number of young people who die of overdose, and to give our heavy drug addicts increased dignity and quality of life. Prime Minister Bondevik also stated in the Declaration of Accession to the Government that increasing efforts for our drug addicts was something that the Government would prioritise. The left is satisfied with the fact that the budget has increased access to low-threshold and methadone treatment. The size has previously decided that our drug addicts should receive an individualised treatment provision. And in the Left, we see the proposal to ask the Government to contribute to the financial resources of entire action packages covering a holistic provision of care and treatment, as a follow-up. Now the government has said that they want to come up with an action plan, and I want to give some signals as to what the Left believes one should give priority to in such an action plan. Firstly, the voluntary sector must be introduced, not only in terms of prevention, but also in terms of treatment provision. They're in a state of enormous competence, which is important if we're to use. Then I've been told that we don't have enough staff, and I think it's going to be a good cooperation and get the staff we have, in a completely different way if we're going to be able to give our heavy drug addicts a better supply. When it comes to methadone, that is, to medically assisted treatment, we do not have to create bureaucratic mechanisms that are complicated and prevent one from putting this into practice. There's been a lot of signals and recordings in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e899	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e902	It looks like the little ones have to stick together, because then there's a chance of a line exchange with both questions and answers. At least I take the chance to challenge the Left on something that the representative Wehofde himself had in mind, namely their proposal from us in relation to the drug epidemic, as it was called. If it is not worrying that the government of the Left is part of it, the alcohol tax will lower as much as it does, when we see that the average youth aged 15 to 20 today drinks 5 litres of pure alcohol. Ten years ago, the consumption was 3 liters -- and maybe that's enough, too. We know that a study in the late 1990s showed that half of them asked between 21 and 30 years in Oslo and Akershus that they had had at least one problem related to alcohol. And according to Hans Olav Fekjær, alcohol is a much bigger problem in the Oslo area than for example. Hazg. I think the representative from the left should comment on this, if this is related to the commitment they showed in ours. So, for this, with drugs and psychiatry -- the double diagnoses that exist there. In this position, the SV and the Centre promote a proposal for the Government to investigate the consequences of a treatment guarantee for children and young people with mental illness in relation to existing legislation, while at the same time providing an assessment of the organisational and personnel aspects of such a scheme. We know that double diagnosis and the combination of drugs and psychiatry are very difficult, and are also very widespread. We know that approx. 2 500 children – if I am properly informed – are on the waiting list within psychiatry. Isn't it time we had such a review of waiting list issues and treatment guarantee for children and young people in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e911	Let me start with the last question that the representative of Lutvold raised. I mean, I think that when we get an action plan, what goes on in the psychiatry, too, will be in there. You need to have a complete review of your entire treatment system to see how you can get the best possible cooperation, who should make the diagnosis, and who should relieve them in a treatment system. I agree with the representative Joyful that psychiatry and intoxication are very much related. So to what goes on with the alcohol charge. It is important to stop smuggling, home burn production and border trade, and get this into controlled forms. In the left, we're actually also fans of more wine monopolies, because then one can at least get better goods than what a lot of young people use today. And to the question of whether we unilaterally go in and reduce the fees, we don't do that. We give more in relation to the compensation scheme for the voluntary sector, and we go in and strengthen treatment provision. One must conduct a holistic policy in this area and not just look at it unilaterally – one must look at the totality of the budget. And then left is quite happy. Within this sector, especially targeting youth and prevention, it is not just the alcohol we in the Left are concerned about. Some of these substances that are now on their way here to the country, which neither I nor so many others know the name of, may start experimenting with, and it may cause quite great damage. We also need to focus on this when we look at an overall action plan, where we need to include all the pieces of both treatment provision and prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e925	I'm pleased with Left's commitment to the drug problem. These problems are only getting bigger and bigger from year to year and are now completely out of control in our country. Then I thought of that idea: is there something wrong with our drug policy, and should it be reviewed to see what we can do to stop this development in cities, towns and branches? My first question to the representative is: How does the Left view the creation of a national broad drug commission to go through all aspects of Norwegian drug policy, including the treatment of drug addicts? The second question is: Will the Left in Government ensure that the system of injection rooms, established in Oslo by the previous government, can be expanded and launched in several major cities where there is a need for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e935	Let me start with the question about injection rooms. The left has previously expressed support for a trial project with injection rooms associated with another holistic treatment provision. What the PRO-centre did, we thought we were positive, but it was stopped. We know that there is a resource center in Bergen that consists of the Church's Bymission and the Bergen Clinics, who have applied to start a corresponding project. We think it's important that this is tested. But this is a matter that is now out on the phone, and we are waiting to get the hearing notes before we conclude with a fixed project. But we've said that it would be interesting to try this out. We think it's the right way to go to give heavy drug users a decent and better supply than they have today. So to that with a drug commission. I have registered that the representative Alvheim has launched this. We're not in the mood for this being a way to put some things on the agenda and get a complete review on it. We record good competence in Norway when it comes to drugs. We have the Board of Directors in the Rusfeld, for example, which is a professional body where professionals meet and make representations to each other. Being able to gather these professionals and evaluate the research that lies there, better, we think would be positive. I record, when I have reviewed some documents that have been being treated in the Storting for the past ten years and that relate to drugs, that it is moving slowly forward. I thought it was going too slow. We see that this is becoming an ever-increasing problem, and we see that our heavy drug addicts have huge problems. It's important to give them a better world and a better quality of life. I have recorded that many of the measures that have come have actually come after being requested from this room. They haven't come from either the department or the professional community, so maybe it would be the right way to go, to get the professionals into a commission to unload us a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e944	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e947	For the Workers' Party, combating poverty, unemployment and social disparities is a primary task. Our health and social policy is based on the ideas of social protection and justice through fair distribution of goods and obligations and the Community's responsibility for financing basic health and social services. The Workers' Party will protect the Community's responsibility for ensuring the equivalence of offers to all in the country. I'm glad we've arranged ourselves in Norway so that the public finances a larger share of healthcare than in most countries we can naturally compare with, i.e. countries within the OECD area. Measured as a proportion of gross domestic product, health expenditure and care expenditure are leading Norway to third place in the EU/EEA territory. A particular feature of this social-democratic model is the way we use our wealth. In our draft budget, we have put a number of common tasks ahead of the desire of so many to make ourselves even more prosperous. So we've given priority to this. development of care for the elderly with a further 4,000 new healthcare centres in addition to the previously adopted action plan follow-up to the national cancer plan, plan for equipment investment and plan for mental health hospital reform where the aim of government ownership and reorganization is to get more out of each health crown, provide more comparable services across the country and eliminate unworthy and unnecessary waiting times We have started the fight against increasingly high levels of social and health services for those with poor pay and chronic diseases. We have followed up on what we promised in the Action Plan on Social and Economic Security. I'll give you an example. increase in the child allowance in the population allowance for disabled persons by DKK 5 136 per year. child-care providers with disabled children are entitled to child-care and to an increase in aid-related social welfare schemes for young people who become seriously ill during education and who have not acquired the right to a health-benefit-less reduction of the pension for psychiatric patients in long-term institutionalised pilot scheme for work and education trips for disabled persons. I am pleased with the majority who are that all young people with disabilities living in institutions, who want to move out, are still to be followed up and get their offer outside the institution. I am pleased with the majority of interpreters for deaf people and increased funding for disabled people's organisations. On the other hand, I am sorry that we did not get a majority either for more money for personal assistants for the disabled, for the Back Association in Norway, or for the Velferdsallians, the Night Home for the prostitutes, and for the Tapers, who are doing a fantastic job for those who often, because of the egoism and offensive behavior and the neglect of society, have had undeserved difficulties in life. I mentioned before the development of prowess. I am very pleased that, for the first time in my time at Stortinget, we have been suggested to put a lower general self-interest in medicine and medical care than before. The Workers' Party proposed to the Financial Committee to reduce the self-interest from NOK 1450 to NOK 1350 and agreed to this. Breaking track and good! Nevertheless, we do not have the power to protect those who need comprehensive health and social services and medicine well enough. It's sadly so that someone who has only the right to live on can also have the biggest personal expenditure on prostheses. This shows studies from both user organisations and other research. We can't have it that way. The working party took care to raise the issue of removing the excess of blue prescription medicine for disabled and old-age pensioners and has now been supported. And we have proposed better arrangements for the reimbursement of high costs of dental treatment. But we're not going to do this. It must be possible to create a system that protects chroniclers, large consumers and people with low incomes against high trades in health and care services. It is necessary to interact with user organisations to find effective mechanisms to remove the systems that currently operate socially. I am very disappointed that the bulk of the population commits a great injustice against the childless by throwing all the expenses on the young couples who will try to have children through artificial conception, spending up to NOK 120 000. This establishes a system for those with a very good economy. We risk young people with normal incomes having to go into debt in order to try to be a parent. This is unsolvable. I am also dissatisfied with the fact that not the bulk of the population, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party, have taken the new signals from the training institutions about a very serious economic situation, more seriously. Government and growth must now be able to create a financing system that provides a predictable and well-functioning basis for those who operate well. The Social Committee, and I assume the Department too, is well-informed about medicines that can make life easier for Alzheimer's patients. It is now time to apply the medicines that have demonstrated efficacy and get them into the bladder prescription system. The majority of the population has given the government this challenge. At the same time, it is now necessary to clean up the drugs of arthritis patients so that they can receive the best treatment. As a long-standing member of the Social Committee, I have been involved in promoting the case of the Norwegian people, after we had carried out very successful trials in four Norwegian municipalities over several years, and after we had gained experience from other countries, for example. Denmark, which has had the scheme for many decades. I see that those who opposed the system, namely the Right Party and the Advance Party, have now found it right on ideological grounds to try a rematch, on the basis of what may seem to be a failing guard in some municipalities – perhaps limited to Oslo. The fixed medical system itself does not lay the foundations for, or prevents, good vigilance. But I may have a nagging feeling that the negotiating power that the doctors got through a little for permissive legislation may have deprived some municipalities of the possibility to establish the statutory watch regime. This should be looked at by the Minister of Health. At the same time, possible childhood diseases in the scheme must be eliminated, if they exist. I am very opposed to the fact that it is right to give Norwegian patients the right to a doctor and doctor the obligation to take care of and to be responsible for named patients. We see that the expected effect, better medical coverage and better distribution of doctors in the country are about to hit. This is very important for a fair health system. I look with excitement and expectation until the state acquisition of the hospitals. I have experienced, through political work, both at state level and now in Stortinget, an ever-increasing response to the responsibilities of patients. Although our specialist health service is of very good quality, both quality and access are different from state to state. We can't have it that way. The State, as its owner, has been given the opportunity both to govern and to take control where necessary, and the Storting can and shall provide national leadership and verify that these are followed up by the Government through health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1003	Social policy and welfare systems shall provide security for people who, for various reasons, need social assistance and support in different situations of life. In the last century, large groups of common interests were raised by general measures. Such solutions no longer exist. The problem now is that of individuals who fall outside and who have complex problems. Composite problems require complex solutions. Unfortunately, users are too often confronted with an unconnected public utility, where finding out in the jungle of agencies, offices and complex legislation can scare the most resource-intensive. There is a need for a new social policy based on individuals and for public action and agencies to be coordinated and coordinated in relation to the different needs of individuals. I have noticed that these are issues that the Committee also addresses in its position, and I will get back to this. In the social policy budget proposal of the Co-operation Government, the focus was on targeted measures to combat poverty and increased efforts to tackle drug users. I am pleased that the Social Committee is following this in its position and that there is a broad consensus on the need to invest in these areas. And then there's also some disagreement in terms of individual measures. First to poverty. Most people in Norway are doing well. Therefore, the contrast becomes great when we see some people falling through welfare schemes and experiencing poverty. We can afford to prevent poverty in Norway if we are willing to look with new eyes at old welfare schemes. The government will put in place practical and targeted measures to help people out of poverty, and we will give particular priority to measures aimed at families with children who experience poverty. In the budget, as an immediate measure, we have proposed increasing the income-tested child allowance to 40 pst. of the basic amount of the public interest. This is an effective measure to improve the situation of long-term low income families. The increase for these families will be about NOK 5000 per year. children next year, and there is a significant step in the right direction. We have also proposed to amend the legislation in order not to lose the right to the child supplement if one of the parents falls away. This has been a clear injustice in legislation, and I am pleased that the Social Committee is joining this change. The government will adjust the price of State indicative rates of social assistance in 2002. We also want to change the guidelines so that they take greater account of the real costs of having children. The government proposed to keep the cash support out of the calculation of the basis for social economic assistance. We thought it was important that the cash support should benefit both poor and rich, and that families who have used the scheme should retain the freedom of choice even if they had had to apply for financial social assistance in a snipe roof. However, I have noticed that the majority of the Social Committee has a different view, and I will of course follow up the position on this point. When there were first changes here, I am pleased that the funds released as a result of this will continue to benefit poor families with children through increased child rates in the guidance guidelines for social assistance. The government is working on an action plan against poverty. We want broad cooperation and effort in this area. We have received good contributions from the research community and focus on good and close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. I have pointed out that the welfare policy of the last century was about lifting large groups of common interests. Now, individuals are falling outside, and the causes of poverty are complex and complicated – as we have been documented, among other things. through the balancing message. There are not whole groups that fall outside, but individuals within different groups. This must be taken into account by social policy. The response needs to be built around the individual’s need to help get out of poverty. People in need of public assistance and assistance today meet a young boy of different offices and offices, and a complex and unbridled regulatory framework, whether in the area of social services, care, pensions and social security or disability. The Social Committee points out that many people experience responsibilities powderisation and reduced levels of service when they have to contact several agencies, and there is confusion among themselves as to who is really responsible. It's a concern I share. I have noticed that it is a unanimous social committee that asks the Government to address the issue of a single social service unit, the social security system and the social security system. This is a work I will immediately do, and with great enthusiasm. If we are to have a social policy for the individual, where there is an individual's need for help that is governing, we need to coordinate the public offer and provide comprehensive solutions for the individual. The various services currently provided by the social services, the labour market and social security services must be coordinated and coordinated on the basis of the needs of the individual. The auxiliary apparatus shall not be a maze into which we send the user, but one door and one barrier, and help where you turn. So to the drug problem. The government will draw up a separate action plan on drug problems that focuses on both prevention and improved treatment provision for drug users. The noise field is large and unobtrusive. There is a need to clear up and clarify responsibilities. As a first step, the Government from the New Year by the Minister of Health will be responsible for medically assisted rehabilitation and low-threshold health services for drug users. This will make it easier to get overall and coherent health services for drug users — from outreach interventions in drug users’ settings to more specialised treatment provision. I am pleased that the Social Committee joins the Government's proposal to increase the allocation of low-threshold health measures for drug users, in order to strengthen and extend the offer to several municipalities. The boundaries and responsibilities between social services and health services for drug users are unclear. The Committee calls for a review of the laws in this area, taking into account the objective of also assigning responsibilities to health professionals. Several measures for drug users currently covered by the Social Services Act have a content and character which makes it more natural to regard them as specialised health services. The government is working on a review of this area, the aim of which is that these services should be provided by health legislation and become part of state health businesses. I will come back to Stortinget with a separate case about this. More than 700 drug users are waiting for a drug-assisted rehabilitation offer. The Government has proposed increased appropriations for medically assisted rehabilitation to ensure that drug addicts who can benefit from it receive such an offer, in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge in the context of the review of the 2001 national budget. I am pleased that this proposal has been widely endorsed in the Committee's position. Then to the senior plan. During the spring, the government will come to Stortinget with a proposal on the end of the seniority plan. When the retirement plan was first dealt with in the Stortinget in 1997, there were 24,400 nursing homes and nursing homes. In the 2001 budget, the framework was expanded by 5 000 posts, and now an overall committee concludes that the framework will be expanded by a further 4 000 posts in 2002. The deadline for applying for a grant from the Husbank expired on 1 October of this year and we are now reviewing the application base. I have noted the input made through the consideration of the budget by the Social Committee and will come back to the matter with a broad review, where a future grant scheme will also be considered. The proposed 2002 undertaking framework will be broken down according to the same principles as in the past, but with a particular focus on those municipalities with the lowest coverage of lucky day care facilities. Applications from municipalities that cannot be prioritised in this round will be rejected pending the review of the spring, where the final grant framework will be established. So for the printing of young people with disabilities. The Social Committee has, in its opinion, drawn attention to young people with disabilities living in older institutions. Under a temporary grant scheme, the Ministry has granted grants for the relocation of about 300 persons. Nevertheless, in some municipalities young people with disabilities still live in older institutions. The new mechanism for financing measures for particularly resource-intensive users, which entered into force in 2000, will improve the capacity of municipalities to provide an offer to this group. In addition to this, I will follow up on the proposal for a decision in the suspension and cooperate with the user organisations to find out what it is appropriate to do on the part of the country, in order to ensure that everyone who wants to do so receives an offer outside the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1044	As the Council of State stated in its statement, the majority of the Grand Duchy today opposes the Government's proposal to amend the guidelines for measuring economic social assistance. The majority believe that it would be wrong to disregard the cash support when calculating the income base of the applicant for social assistance, and would instead be in favour of a solution whereby the indicative child supplement rates are raised. The Council of State said that she had taken note of this proposal by the majority. However, my question to the Minister of Social Affairs is: Will the Minister of Social Affairs now immediately implement the decision of the Storting and inform the municipalities in an appropriate manner that the guidance rates for the child supplement have changed and not, if necessary, await a wider review of the child supplement, as the Council of State also warned in its statement? Then there's an interesting debate we'll obviously be facing in social policy, on targeting, tailoring, versus more general, strong public schemes. I think everyone sees that we need targeted arrangements. The question is just where to start with a tailor-made approach to the ‘Tressman principle’ – I would say – should go. Interestingly, we see that the government is now moving towards a free textbook system for all high school students, and rather suggests a scholarship to those who really need it. Does the Council of State think that it is an expression of the new, more targeted, more individualised social policy that this government will stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1053	To the last one first. The government is committed to creating an action plan against poverty, so that we get to grips with all the areas that work in relation to it, both in terms of what goes directly on money, for which I understand that the representative is particularly concerned, and also in terms of housing, employment and social networking. This poverty action plan will assess all aspects. With regard to the issue of the rates in the guidance guidelines, prices are adjusted in 2002, and whether these will be included, I think it is right to say that the Stortinget will ask the Government to also maintain the guidance on assessing cash support in the income base. So it's probably also saying that I notice the majority that the committee has, and that it has a different view than that of the government. We agree that there is a need to increase child supplements in the guidance guidelines, and that this will also be followed up in a majority comment in a circular to the municipalities. It's a natural consequence of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1062	Initially, I will be allowed to commend the Minister of Social Affairs for her commitment to drug abusers, to actions against them, and to the understanding that the Council of State has shown in this regard, not least with regard to the increase in this area. It's very positive, and I hope that this will continue in the future as well. What I want to grasp here is what the Council of State was about to finalize in its article: grants for the release of young people with disabilities. Here it was shown that these will now come under the scheme in the municipalities for particularly resource-intensive users. Unfortunately, that does not solve the problem. We have had a grant scheme for the outsourcing of young people with disabilities, which is due to end — it is well in 2003. This is actually a system that I think is just a little over 300 people who have benefited from when it comes to being deported. This concerns me, because it should not be necessary in Norway for individual municipalities — excuse the expression — to ‘rest away’ young people with disabilities at home because of economic convenience. We can't be aware of this. For this reason, the majority – all except government parties – have also made proposals to ask the Government, in cooperation with user organisations, to draw up an action plan for measures to ensure that these disabled people can be printed out from hospitals. In her statement, the Council of State said that she wanted to contact and talk to the user organisations, but she did not mention any concrete action. My question then is: will the Council of State, together with the user organisations, immediately initiate work to obtain an action plan of action, so that we can now, once and for all, make a real effort to provide the many disabled with an offer outside the institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1071	In the autumn of 2000, according to a mandate from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Resource Centre carried out a survey to identify how many people under the age of 67 who live in institutions, how many of them wanted to move to their own home, and how many people it would be useful to move to their own home. The study showed that for the majority of the persons for whom there were no plans to move out, there was neither a wish for relocation nor an assessment that the persons would have any benefit from moving to their own home. I would like to cooperate with user organisations to find out what it is appropriate to do on the part of the state, to ensure that anyone who wants to do so receives an offer outside the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1078	I refer to my reply to the representative, Mr Höie, earlier in the debate today, on the sick pay scheme and the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life. I think I got a somewhat unclear response from the representative of the government party on the right. Thus, in their remarks in the budget position, the government parties say that they will consider tightening the legislation on health money payments. I would therefore like to ask the State Council to confirm, if necessary to confirm, whether it is such that, in the period covered by the agreement, that is to say until 2005, the Government will refrain from considering and, where appropriate, proposing tightening the rules on sick pay, such as: in the form of withdrawal days. It is true that this agreement has been concluded by three parties – the Government, the employees and the employers. It may therefore be interesting for Stortinget to hear the Council of State’s assessments on this issue. I would also like to refer to the performance of NHO Director Olav Magnussen in Dagbladet on 6 December, where he strongly advocates strong tightening of the sick pay system. How does the Council of State assess this type of play from one of the contracting parties? And has the government considered making some kind of reaction to the N.H.O. on such attempts to – as I see it – tear away the basis to achieve the objectives of the intention agreement, which everyone seems to agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1089	I would have mentioned the intention agreement, if I had jerked it, in my first post. I think I'll say the following: The strong growth of sick leave requires measures to reduce absenteeism. This is important for individual workers and to reduce the costs of sick leave for enterprises and the public. Reduced sick leave is necessary to release funds for other important tasks. The cooperative government fully supports the commitment entered into between the social partners and the state. The Intention Agreement commits the parties and the public to an ambitious commitment for reduced absences and a more inclusive working life. The Intention Agreement — and the reactivation of the disabled — involves a new way of working for the social security system, from rule management to active efforts to help people participate in the labour market, with a focus on functioning rather than sickness, and presence rather than absence. The goal is a 20 pst reduction. It's ambitious, but not unrealistic. A few weeks ago I visited Ringnes' plant on Gålleråsen. By deliberately investing in both management and employee organisations, and by working closely with the social security system, they have committed themselves to an agreement of intent, and they have also managed to reduce sick leave from 12 to 8 pst. When there are opinions in the press, to which the representative Molvik refers, it is said that the Government relates to the agreement concluded between the social partners. We have no signals that indicate anything but that there is full support and full pressure in relation to continuing to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1103	When the health sector is now going to take over responsibility for the drug abuse field, as some say – at least one will take responsibility for a part of the medical and medical treatment – how will the Minister of Social Affairs coordinate action through organisation and formalisation, so that there is clear responsibilities and a clear division of responsibilities? This must be done at both national and further down to the local level. So another problem, which also affects the drug field. The State juridical institute takes tests for police, e.g.: Narcotic drugs, including in cases where there is a suspicion of drug-related harm. This has become so expensive for the police that sampling has largely stopped. And the sampling that is now being practised is not good enough. Will the Minister of Social Affairs ensure that the State Judicial Institute receives funds, or that there are reimbursement schemes, so that proper sampling can continue? I am aware that it is at the limit of what is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs, but the social sector also uses SRI to a large extent, and it is important, not least for the social sector, to be able to get to the source of drug abuse. Finally, targeted action against families with children. The Minister of Social Affairs said that the government wanted to keep the cash support out of the calculation when it came to social contributions, because the cash support would benefit everyone – both poor and rich. But what about the child's back? What does the Minister for Social Affairs think about it? Is it not a universal system that will benefit everyone – both poor and rich? Now, at least it won't benefit the poor, as the government wants to calculate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1112	There were three questions. The first was: How to get to the whole of Russo’s care? There it is saying that the Government will review the organisation of treatment for drug users. In addition, we will develop an action plan on drug problems. It has to be wide and it has to be complete. Voluntary organisations shall be involved. They have a central role to play in drug prevention. It is also important to strengthen the prevention of measures in municipalities. It is important that close and local responses are strengthened, and that the development of good local-based prevention programmes involving the whole community will be central. Parents are important role models, and much indicates that parents’ alcohol habits are important when young people start drinking. More people have been involved in this today. Nationally, it is also important to curb increased drug use. In addition, we will strengthen our international commitment, and from January 2001 Norway will be a member of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. A broad and comprehensive effort needs to be made both nationally and internationally to stop this development. There are several ministries involved — there is some intention to have a plan of action. In this way, it will also be the basis for reviewing clear positions of responsibility, for example. between the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Health. - That's one of them. The second concerns the Rackthosciology Institute and the concern about the allocation of funds. I'm just taking that information with me, because it'll be one of the conditions that it's okay to have an assessment in relation to a plan of action in the field of drugs. Then there were families with children. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1129	It must be another time!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1132	I must admit that I was not entirely satisfied with the Council's answer to my first question and therefore feel the need to repeat it. In its speech, the Council of State said that ‘a new social policy is needed’ and exemplified it by the need for a more targeted social policy. It's a principle statement, and what I'm asking is whether there are examples of such a new social policy in the government's draft budget. Then I ask quite specifically: is it that the government is now moving away from a policy of free textbooks to all high school students, and rather to targeted scholarships to those who really need it – i.e. those who need it – an example of this new orientation on social policy, away from general arrangements and to more target-setting, testing the needs of those who really need it? Is there an example of more tailoring, which is an expression the Council of State itself has used? Or does this change have nothing to do with a new social policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1139	When the Government wants to draw up an action plan against poverty, it is about wanting a broad review. We want to look at the definition, not because we're going to define ourselves away from poverty, but because we want to hit exactly. We want to reach those who really need it, who really need it, who don't get to share in some of the social benefits of society, who don't have housing, who don't have work, and who also have difficulty being included in a social environment. We want to be more precise in that action plan than just to embrace widely and thus perhaps not hit accurately and safely. It is right that we want an action plan against poverty, and we want it to be targeted and reach those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1146	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1149	The next year’s budget is also marked this time by the fact that there is no willingness in this room to provide sufficient funds to solve the many problems facing Norwegian health and social services. In the context of the Government’s presentation of its proposal for changes to the State budget in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4, it was clear that this government was not willing to give sufficient priority to sick and elderly people, because it cannot be interpreted in any other way that the Government proposed to remove one really positive suggestion from the government of Stoltenberg, to remove the excesses of medicines and medical supplies on the blue recipe for disability and old age pensioners. However, the Government had to go back on this so that disability and old age pensioners could enjoy this scheme as of 1 October 2002. It is part of the social committee's proposal for a budget for 2002, and I would like to highlight a part of what has now been given a majority in the committee. In this article, I want to focus on the proposals for changes that have been made in the field of popular fear. For a number of years the party to the progress report has consistently pointed to the under-regulation of the basic amount that has taken place in relation to each year's social security statement. Several times, the Progress Party has made proposals to amend the social security guidelines so that underregulation is not possible, but unfortunately the majority in this Chamber – all except the Progress Party and the SV – has not been willing to take these issues seriously. It is therefore gratifying that it now appears that the Progress Party will have an impact on its view, as the majority of the Committee – all except the government parties – proposes that the regulation of the basic amount of social security provision for 2002 be regulated at least in line with the wage and price developments of the rest of society. This is, in the view of the Progress Party, a proposal which must mean that the same majority – in the context of the 2002 social security scheme – will be willing to change the guidelines, as the Progress Party has previously requested. It is only in this way that one can ensure that the pensioners in the future budget are not seen as a balancing item. It is also important in this context to note that, once again, government parties will not be involved in securing pensioners against underregulation. It is sad again to note that only the Progress Party wants to do something about the theft done to the pensioners as a result of a curtailment in the legitimate retirement benefits based on marriage or cohabitation. This is something that has to be done if you are to be able to trust the Norwegian pension system. It may not be that it is your choice of form of life that will determine whether or not you will receive your legally earned pension. It is a fact that a number of training institutions have major problems in managing their daily expenses due to low curfew prices. Training institutions are in many ways the very bearer of the Norwegian health system in order to get many sick people back to work or to be able to master their disease in the best possible way. It has therefore just been important for the Progress Party to bring about an increase in the price of the curfew itself, in order to ensure the continued operation of these particularly important institutions. We have not succeeded in obtaining a majority for the sum that the Progress Party believes is sufficient, but at least we have achieved an increase in the price of today's approved institutions of 20,5 million. kr in addition to the Government's original proposal. Today is a happy day for a number of people suffering from Alzheimer's disease. In the past, the party of progress has been the only party that has fought for the medicinal product Aricept, which has been developed to help this patient group, to receive normal bladder re-treatment according to § 9. Today, this medicine can be partially covered under sections 5 to 22 of the regulation, which have proved to be a more difficult arrangement for patients. It has always been important for the Progress Party to put this in place, so that as many as possible of those who could benefit from this drug are able to do so, regardless of the individual’s financial situation. This, in turn, could lead to a better everyday life for the individual patient and for the patient’s family. At the same time, it could result in savings for the public as a result of individual patients becoming less in need of help and delaying the time when they will need a permanent place of institution. The issue of the financial instruments to be used in relation to the costs of using the new biological drugs Enbrel and Remicade is becoming a rebound in the Committee's budgetary proceedings. The new anti-TNF treatment has given a new life to a number of patients with rheumatic disorders, but the problem is only that many have also been refused treatment with these drugs, due to today’s funding system. With regard to which patients have the most benefit of some of these two drugs, this is distributed by approx. 50 pst. on each. Enbrel, which is the most expensive of the drugs, can take the patient himself at home, and it is therefore refunded by the public's fear of the bladder prescription, while the most reasonable of these, Remicade, must be given in hospital by infusion, and then the patient must be for observation. This means that this drug has to be covered by hospitals’ budgets and unfortunately does not allow many to access the most effective and reasonable drug due to hospital budgets. This is a situation which, in the interests of public expenditure, but not least in the interests of sick people, can no longer continue. In fact, total public expenditure could be reduced if the individual patient receives from these two drugs for which he/she can benefit the most. One has to look at these expenditures collectively and not separately — according to different funding methods. It is therefore gratifying that a majority now clearly states that Remicade should also be covered by the BIP, so that the issue of funding methods is resolved. By using the same funding mechanism for both the most reasonable and the most expensive drug, this could far outweigh the budgetary impact of introducing Remicade on a blue prescription. It must be expected that the Council of State will quickly comply with the decision of the Storting in this field. If, on presumptive grounds, there is a slight increase in the cost of medicines, the Council of State will have to come back to the revised national budget to cover this on an annual basis. In the interests of all patients with a rheumatic disorder likely to benefit from these drugs, rapid follow-up should be expected. It has been a pleasure in this budgetary procedure to note that in its opposition role the Labour Party has now been willing to meet the Progress Party in a number of areas which they have been working against when they were in government. In this context, it is positive to note that the Workers' Party now agrees with the Advance Party that the basic amount should not be under-regulated, that Aricept should be covered in accordance with Section 9 of the BLUE Regulation, and that Remicade should also be covered in this way. I think this is a very positive signal which promises well in the future. At the end of the day, I would like to ask the proposers from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre to make proposal No. 20 to a transmission proposal, so that this is not downgraded today, and that one can possibly come back to it later. Furthermore, I would also like to inform you that the Progress Party wishes to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 22, from the Right and Christian People's Party, as it was not possible to obtain a majority for the proposals of the Progress Party on equal rates for MR studies in private and public outpatient clinics.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1179	I am going to use this post to highlight the extensive and widespread use of self-payment in healthcare, both in terms of medicines and different types of treatment – as the representative Asmund Kristoffersen was also concerned about in his post. The primary and fundamental position of the SV is that the necessary healthcare is a basic welfare good that all those who need it should be able to benefit from, regardless of the individual’s economy. SV sees excesses in the health care system as a tax on disease. This is a type of taxation that SV is opposed to. Our funding of the welfare state goes through fair taxation, where those who own and serve the most also contribute most to the community, and where a fair tax provides the basis for free basic services, including healthcare for all. Throughout the 1990s, the majority of population has gradually increased the proportion of health care providers each year. This trend has continued into the new century. SV has always been concerned with slowing down this development as much as possible. The 2002 budget also provides for an increase in equity. There is a general increase of 3.5 pst. for the next year, while the increase for the current year is 4,5 pst. This is significantly above the general price rise, and that means that those who are ill have received relatively higher costs because of their illness. So those who are sick have a tax boost that the healthy have not received. This is bloodyly unfair, and a system by which the Norwegian welfare society is not to be known. SV is therefore moving towards these general increases in equity in the budget. And then SV and I are pleased to note that it now seems to be a time for a multi-political agreement that the development in the matter of promissory notes has gone too far. I then show that a total social committee is going in to lower the self-interest rate for the blue prescription from NOK 1450 to NOK 1350 per person. years. An overall committee also agrees to exempt older people over 67 years of age and non-pensioners from excesses. This is a beginning, and it is a good start on a long way towards what is SV's goal, namely to eliminate the excesses on basic welfare assets, such as: health services are. Exemptions for elderly and non-employees may be a reasonably accurate mechanism to ensure themselves against the many unfortunate outcomes of high self-employment. It turns out, for example. that many patients leave to pick up their prescribed medications at the pharmacies, simply because they can't afford it – and that's not how we can do it. As I said, this is just the beginning of a clean-up in the proportion problems. There are far more than just elderly and untiring pensioners who are suffering unfairly from high self-esteem. Worst out in this way is probably chronically ill, disabled and others who need a lot of medicine and treatment. This may have many reasons, but the main reason is that many necessary medications and treatment types for which these patients are dependent do not fall within the self-employed scheme, which from next year will be NOK 1 350. This applies, inter alia, to: medicines on white prescription, dental treatment, home services, physiotherapy, rehabilitation and stay in training establishments. For this type of service, several thousand chroniclers, disabled persons and others have to pay thousands of dollars a year in equity. The JRC has developed its own study carried out by ECON Centres for Economic Analysis, which shows that the organisation's members, i.e. people with disabilities, paid on average a proportion of NOK 9 000 per year, while for the population otherwise it is about EUR 9 000 per year. NOK 4000. 6 pst. of the disabled had costs of more than NOK 20 000 per year, and 19 pst. was between NOK 10000 and NOK 20 000 per year in the form of a partial payment. This shows the level and extent of disease tax in Norway and underlines the need for the Storting to take action. I and SV are therefore so pleased that a joint social committee is now asking the Government to prepare a proposal for a self-participation 2 to protect chroniclers and major health care users. This shall be provided to the Storting during the next year. I wish that there could already be money in this budget for such a self-interest facility. We have not done that in this round, but SV still sees what a collective committee says and proposes in this budgetary position, as a temporary victory in the fight for lower self-esteem. And we're going to promise to follow closely that all the parties in this room will follow this up in the further work, both when it comes to putting in place a good system and when it comes to getting money into the system – because it's going to cost money. SV also sees this as one of many important measures that need to be implemented to eliminate poverty and balance differences in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1196	An overall objective of the Government’s health policy is an equivalent provision of healthcare to all, irrespective of their place of residence and economy. Our goal is to raise the weakest, the sickest, those who themselves do not have the strength or the ability to speak up for better health care, and we will bet on prevention. The co-operation government’s proposals for the state budget provide a special boost to the provision of health care to drug users, and the efforts to facilitate a good offer for people in the final phase of life are also central. These priorities are a follow-up to the focus on those who are weakest and sickest. Among these, a total of 20 million has been proposed. kr to create multiple hospice and 71.5 mills. to drug users who are the lowest on the rank of society. I am pleased that these priorities are being endorsed today. In the field of drug policy, we are facing a growing social problem that affects more and more individuals, families and communities. We need to meet those who are hit in a qualitatively better and more holistic way, health care needs to meet them in a better way. At the same time, we need to take preventive action and build attitudes towards drugs. In order to strengthen and clarify the responsibility for the health supply to drug users, responsibility for this will be transferred to the Ministry of Health from 1 January next year. The work on a Russian reform is in full swing. The aim of our work is to secure drug users who want it, good and effective social and health services. Drug users are people with very different backgrounds and who struggle to master their lives in very different ways. Long-term abuse will almost always result in major health problems, thus increasing the needs for mental and somatic health care and cross-sectoral cooperation. From the Government, a 20-million increase has been proposed. in 2002 at lowthreshold health services. This is an action aimed at the most common drug users who are unable to benefit from regular health care. The objectives of the measures are, inter alia, to: provide guidance, vaccinations, health checks, the distribution of user equipment and carry out disease prevention measures. Such a low threshold in health services we know will be an important tool in the fight against overdose deaths, as there is reason to believe that the health situation makes drug users more vulnerable to such overdoses. We will also disseminate competences throughout the municipal sector in the primary health service, among others. through medical professional guidance and treatment of diseases in heavily charged drug users. As the Minister for Social Affairs said, we are working on an action plan on drug problems. There, we will focus both on prevention and better provision of health services. The measures shall be personalised in order to enable the individual to receive effective assistance on the basis of their own situation and assumptions. The health service's efforts towards those who are in the final phase of life are, to me, a feature of whether we dare to be present even when excellent knowledge and scientific progress do not extend. I started working on putting life help on the agenda in my previous period as Minister of Health. In meeting people in the final phase of life, I feel that health care values are really being tested. Hospice sites integrated and protected in our hospitals are a necessary and proper follow-up. In this way, it becomes apparent that we are facing a policy that takes the whole of human life seriously in all its phases. That is why we are happy to join in a 20 - million increase. kr to create such hospice spaces in dignified forms within our hospitals. Work on reducing abortion is important. This is why the Cooperative Government has also proposed – and supported – an increase of 2 million. kr for abortion prevention measures. This is money to go to non-governmental organisations carrying out prevention activities. These 2 million are a continuation of the work under the previous Bondevik government, when a grant scheme was put in place for organisations that are working to prevent abortion and unwanted pregnancy outside the state apparatus and the public sector. It is important for the Government to continue the mental health effort through the escalation plan. Here, the investment from 2001 to 2002 is increasing by 520 million. kr. Cooperation management will continue to focus on providing better health services to those with mental health problems. The new government will review the major health plans. Maps and terrain shall be checked to match each other. This also applies to the mental health escalation plan, as the chairman of the Committee has pointed out earlier today. Very many people with mental disorders need complex services over time. Psychiatric disorders are often long-term, and the intensity of symptoms and individual ability to master will vary over time. This means that we need a service apparatus that is both differentiated and eaten enough to provide effective treatment. The goal of the escalation plan is for people with mental disorders to have a better life and prevent mental problems. In addition to the training of personnel, the restructuring and expansion of services and actions, there is a need for a change of attitude in the Norwegian society towards mental health problems and disorders. We will give special priority to work with regard to children and young people. At the same time, we have to do what we can on every front to break the prejudices and myths around having a mental disorder. We all have mental health – and mental health problems can affect anyone. Training institutions are important institutions in our health care system. The Co-operation Board wishes to develop a new financing mechanism for the training institutions that ensures them financially, while the payment by users is such that the economy does not prevent those who need it from availing itself of such offers. I note that a majority in the Committee is now behind a proposal for an increase of 20 million. kr to ensure the operation of existing training institutions. We are approaching with rapid steps the time of the formal entry into force of the hospital reform – i.e. the acquisition by the state of the county councils of sectoral responsibilities and ownership responsibilities relating to the specialist health service and the reorganisation of the hospitals of enterprises. I would also like to stress on this occasion that the Ministry is working intensively to ensure that the implementation of the reform takes place without major problems. All practical aspects which must be clarified by the end of the year shall be clarified. There shall be no unexplained circumstances which have the potential to disrupt the functioning of the institutions after 1 January 2002, as far as we can control it. The size has adopted an implementation cycle that makes very high demands on all actors, including magnification and government. I am pleased that there is so much support for this implementation process both from the Progress Party and from the Labour Party in this Chamber today. We're going to need that. Linked to the follow-up to the hospital reform, the Government will launch an evaluation of existing financial instruments for all health services. Furthermore, there is a need for an investigation into healthcare funding schemes with a view to supporting business organisation and providing incentives for better interaction between levels. This work will be launched in the new year, but with a start-up and progress that does not disturb the main focus that must now be on implementing the reform itself. The government of Stoltenberg, in its draft budget, provided an activity growth in hospitals from 2001 to 2002, amounting to about 1.5pst. This increase was expected to rise to the peak of an estimated activity growth in 2001 at around EUR 15 million. 2 pst. As explained in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 new information is now available on the activity in hospitals per year. 2. tertiary this year, which clearly exceeds the growth assumption for the current year of 2 pst. Under the ISF scheme, an increase of approximately 3,5 pst is foreseen. from 2000, which is the last year for which accounting figures are available. There is a significant governance challenge now facing the boards of regional health enterprises. Based on the health policy objectives, they shall coordinate overall operations within the health region. The starting point is the actual level of activity and costs with which enterprises enter into 2002. The level of basic appropriations and the effectiveness of the hospital sector will determine the development of activity and thus also the payments through input-driven financing. As there is considerable uncertainty about the actual level of costs of the specialist health service at the beginning of 2002, the first half of the year will have to be a consolidation period. Based on the current level of activity and costs of the specialist health service, tight governance with focus on efficiency options will be emphasised by the Government. In addition, the reorganisation of the hospital sector involves some uncertainty about the consumption of the basic allocation. Therefore, the Government has in Appendix No. 4 announced that it would return to the whole of hospital appropriations in the revised national budget following some experience and assessment of new structures. Similarly, as announced in the additional number, the Government will carry out a review of the total hospital investment towards the revised national budget and come to the Stortinget with the result. Finally, let me point out to the representative, Mr Alvheim, who has warned the Government in the debate about following up his own statement on biotechnology, that of course we cannot promise that. We shall actively participate in the development and use of new medical advances, but this use must take place within the framework of and in respect of human life and human dignity. A precautionary principle is certainly timely in this field, and we will come back to this in a big deal for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1245	The Government Parties and the Advance Party cooperated on the framework and allocation proposals for the Social and Health Budget. The representative John Alvheim, in view of this, made a somewhat perceptive contribution, criticizing in strong order the budgetary position of which he is part. Nevertheless, I assume that the Council of State Høybråten feels responsibility for the arrangement in the budget. I therefore recall the relationship that Alvheim’s representative had with the state council in his speech, namely the financing mechanism of the training institutions – which this health minister also had on his table last time he was Minister for Health. In addition to the late harvest, alarming announcements have been made about institutions that appear to be at risk of liquidation. That in light of this, the government parties and the Advance Party did not take the big seriousness and put more into the pot, it seems to be worrying. Therefore, I have to ask: does the Minister of Health intend to clarify and possibly remedy the situation of these institutions, so that any one can avoid accidental closures of institutions that are a good offer to patients and which are a solid relief for specialist healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1255	It's true, as the representative Asmund Kristoffersen pointed out, that many of the training institutions are struggling with poor finances. It is one of the reasons why government parties, together with parties which together form a majority of the Committee, have taken steps to strengthen the allocation of training institutions. And I have noticed the clear signals that that strengthening will be used to strengthen the economy of the existing institutions. Of course, the department will follow up on that. I'm assuming that this will be a relief in the situation of many of the institutions that are struggling, and it is important because they, as the representative of Alvheim was also involved in his post, are an important part of the whole chain of health care. I cannot, of course, issue a blank guarantee for the future lives of all institutions, but I will, within the decisions of the Stortinget today, seek to meet the needs of the existing institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1260	The Progress Party is alone in proposing that regional health businesses should also be able to purchase healthcare from private clinics and hospitals that had not previously agreed with county municipalities. The reason for the proposal is that the Progress Party believes that with the new hospital reform, it is particularly important in view of the waiting time for patients that the overall health services are fully exploited in both private and public hospitals and clinics. The Sem declaration shall state: ‘... provide input-driven funding for the treatment of all authorised private service providers operating in agreement with regional health establishments or health establishments.’;» My question to the Minister for Health will then be as follows: Is the quoted opinion from the Sem Declaration to interpret so strictly that a formalised agreement must be reached between the companies and the private health providers before they can submit tenders for the provision of health services for businesses? Or can the Sem declaration be interpreted as meaning that state enterprises can purchase services paid with input-based financing from private providers, based on price and quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1272	The Sem Declaration and the Government's Declaration of Accession announced a reform of the relationship with private hospitals. We want to design a comprehensive scheme in which approved private hospitals are included in the free choice of hospitals – they are part of the input-driven funding, and they are part of the implementation of the Patient Rights Act, so that these resources are actually used to address the need for hospital services overall. The overall system we are now working to design, and it will be based on the basic principle that these private hospitals should have or have an agreement with regional health companies, as stated in the Government's Declaration of Accession. It's important because this system is actually going to hang out. There shall be a comprehensive system for patients, and there shall be a system where there is a public responsibility behind the funding. We will come back to Stortinget with the necessary proposals both in terms of legislation and guidelines for this, and we are already developing a framework for this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1279	In the spring of 2001, a minority of the Christian People's Party, SV and the Centre expressed their views on the law on health enterprises in the Committee's comments that the multi-institutional intervention funding mechanism had been proven to have an undesirable effect on several diagnostic groups. Those batches, irrespective of the other owner model, considered that there is a need for a review and improvement of the ISF and the DRG system. So we wanted an evaluation of it, and the Christian People's Party was involved in those comments. It was at least at the time some comments from the Christian People's Party related to the health business – especially under the direction of Are Næss – that it is almost difficult to quote, because you could fear being clubbed by the president. I notice that the Christian People's Party has now changed some view of the health business model itself, and takes note of it. However, with regard to the evaluation of input-driven funding itself, it would be thought that there was a great need for it. So now the input-driven funding is re-increased to 55 pst. of which hospitals are to walk. The SV and the Central Party agree on a proposal to provide the Government with an evaluation of the impact of effort-driven funding on efficiency, possible treatment distortive effects and assessment of social costs, and to provide it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. This proposal is almost identical with the Christian People's Party in ours. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he does not also see the need to review the system of effort-driven financing in terms of the effects and side effects it has had, and, if so, whether he can provide a reason why the Christian People's Party has changed its view of this only since ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1294	I have to admit that I am a little surprised by this line from the representative of Ballo, who otherwise often has views I find it easy to share. He could not have been present during my contribution because I just stated that we want to start an evaluation of existing financial instruments for all health services. The representative of Ballo, through the proposal he referred to, makes an attempt, is to blow open doors. It is essential that, when the external structural intervention of the reform is in place, the financial instruments should be evaluated and evaluated. And I want to say that the system we have has a lot of good experience with. There may be some rashes that should be corrected. Some of it will be corrected, including: crypted, in the budget adopted today, but the scheme is not stymied. So I'm open to changes and adaptations for my part, but it has to come as a result of the evaluation and the review that is now underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1299	Based on the figures presented yesterday on child and youth psychiatry, that there are between 2,000 and 3,000 children on the waiting list for psychiatric treatment and help, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he does not share the views of the Centre Party and the SV, that it would be reasonable at least to investigate the consequences of a treatment guarantee for children and young people in the psychiatry and to look at the organisational and personnel resources that one has in this service. So a little bit about the training institutions, which I was in my post where I stressed as strongly as I could, that it must do something more than the grip proposed in today's budgetary position. The Minister of Health referred to the strengthening carried out by the Government Parties and the Advance Party. It is too modest in relation to the need that may lie there. The fact that the institutions themselves have given rise to a need beyond the timing of what the government parties and the Progress Party are now putting in is so, but at least I hope that the Minister of Health can confirm that he will follow these developments closely and possibly come back with proposals for action already in the revised national budget. So to a case that might be small, but that means a lot to a large group. The MS association has a centre in Hakadal, in the Minister of Health's own county, and this needs upgrading. Both the MS centre and the Akershu County Municipality have been in dialogue with state authorities, and the State Secretary for the Minister of Health, it was well, sent earlier in the autumn letters to the county rapporteur informing him that the state had not completed the proceedings, but that the county council should grant money so that the design could be started. Will the Minister of Health follow this up, so we can keep an MS centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1308	I share the concern of the representative for the development of the mental health of children and young people and the availability of good services. Therefore, children and young people will become an even clearer field of action in the escalation of mental health in the time to come, both in relation to municipalities and in relation to hospitals. Fortunately, we now see that new treatment services are being set up, and that more – much more than before – are getting help in the past. I would also like to draw attention to expanding the treatment offer rather than issuing more guarantees on the paper. This assembly has relatively robust experience in issuing health care guarantees. I thought that those experiences did not directly invite me to repeat. We will rather look at how we will deal with this in the future in relation to the Patient Rights Act, but introducing new treatment guarantees will, in my view, only lead to more bureaucracy and more bookkeeping. We need less of that in the hospital service in Norway. I have nothing to add to what I said in my reply to the representative Kristoffersen regarding the training institutions. We get manoeuvres within the budget that is being adopted today. And then the majority said clearly that the increased funds should be used to strengthen the existing institutions. In the case of the MS center in Hakadal, I have recorded what a state secretary in the previous government wrote. I have also found that the General Committee on Health and Social Affairs in Akershu County has allocated funds to initiate the project. In addition, it will be for the regional health undertaking to assess any future operating agreement with this specialist home.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1319	I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of States a question – completely without thought and more of curiosity! We now see that the new health boards are established and have come into operation. And in line with the legislation – it is a regulation that we take full responsibility for – most people, all except one, decide that meetings should be held behind closed doors, that the debate should be secret, that votes should be secret, and that only the decision should be published. I have no problem seeing that there are arguments for that decision, but at the same time I feel quite certain that it will develop a whole new branch within the press world, which is about finding out what is happening in the closed rooms and which is an important part of the press's task. I also feel absolutely convinced that both regional and local viewers will develop the new branch in a very good way. They want to figure out who said what when, and they want to figure out who voted what when. But then we will get into a situation where those who sat in this meeting cannot explain their vote, cannot participate in the debate, because this has happened in a meeting that per. the definition was closed. I think we're going into a democratic set of a little bit of trouble with the system we've set up. Without saying that the Labour Party has taken a position in one direction or another in this matter, I simply allow myself to ask: What is the position of the Council of State on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1333	The decision was taken at the time of the adoption of the Health Enterprises Act. There was no big debate on this issue. What regional health businesses do is, as well, recognised by the representative Hanssen, a follow-up to the framework conditions given to health businesses. For my part, I am concerned with transparency about health policy at all levels – that is something that affects people's everyday lives and lives, that public debate, active information and transparency are important. I would therefore like to emphasise that regional health companies develop an active information function, that they set up user committees for interaction with important user groups, and that they also have a dialogue with their environment. They're also going to practise the Public Relations Act, and they're going to practice more publicity, just as we're trying to do it. The question of open meetings is more complicated. This is not, of course, party-politically or geographically-consolidated governance; this is corporate governance, with representatives who are there by virtue of their personal suitability and who are not allowed to end up in a situation where they are perceived as representatives of their geographical regions. Then much in the system has been lost. That's why I want to follow this development closely. Now we are in the situation that someone has chosen open meetings, others have chosen closed meetings, and they have access to that. It gives us the excellent learning situation that you can gain experience with both solutions. I want to follow those experiences with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1346	It is a paradox that one of the richest countries in the world still has groups described as poor. But it promises well that the committee will do something with it unanimously, by: strengthen the child’s supplements to social security for children in the guidance guidelines on social assistance more money for drug care The Minister for Social Affairs stressed in his speech the willingness to do something for the poor as necessary. Improving the situation of those who have become poor is important and necessary, but not sufficient to combat poverty. To combat poverty, one must have a policy that ensures a fair distribution, ensuring that everyone has equal opportunities to participate in society, to get education, to get work. It does not combat poverty with tax relief for the richest or with privatisation and the outsourcing of basic welfare goods, such as education and necessary health and care services. It does not combat poverty through threats to the introduction of day-olds in the sick pay system, through the reduction of labour market measures or through an unimpeded market liberalist housing policy. Combating poverty means being willing to guarantee all fundamental rights to work, to education, to social and economic basic security. This cannot be done without a strong public sector, and this is where the government parties and the Workers' Party separate layers. Benefits to the disabled, to the sick, to the pensioners have had a very strong growth, which must be expected from the population composition we have. The Labour Party sees the benefits of popular interest as fundamental to the economic security of individuals. Therefore, the Workers' Party has not approached the issue through reductions in benefits. On the other hand, we have been a guarantor of the reduction of the sick pay scheme, and we have taken the challenge of financing the common good. So it was a value choice the Stoltenberg government made when they chose to tax the richest, among other things. by taxing dividends on shares and other tax incentives in business. With such a policy of distribution, we can also ensure that the standard of living of the insured is consistent with the general development of wealth. The Labour Party will not accept under-regulation of the basic amount and we are pleased that there is a majority in the Committee asking the Government to ensure that the social security settlement for 2002 ensures that the basic amount is regulated at least in line with the wage and price developments elsewhere in society. The right to work is not just a means of combating poverty. The right to work also guarantees dignity, participation and belonging to society. There are therefore many social and economic reasons why active welfare policies need to facilitate participation in the labour market. Our goal is ambitious. While Norway is already at the top in terms of participation in employment, we believe that more people can be recruited through better organisation of work and through stronger financial incentives to combine work and social security. Work must pay off, and neither disabled persons, partially sick nor older people should experience that they are being punished for using their labour force. The proposal to raise labour income from 1 G to 2 G before the pension is curtailed for them between 67 and 70 years is a step on the right track, but only one step. We also need, as outlined by the Sandman Committee, greater flexibility between work, health care, disability and retirement. It's an explicit goal to have an inclusive working life. But then we must also be prepared to include the possible costs of efficiency and productivity. An inclusive working life provides room for workers who, in other circumstances, would be excluded from working life. We must bear this in mind when one in different contexts underlines the concern for the high level of sick leave. The entire Committee stresses the importance of following up the Memorandum of Understanding on an inclusive working life. But I allow myself to ask questions about the will of the government parties in this context. If the contract of intention is to be concluded, it will require a strong follow-up from the social security system, both in relation to the individual subject and with advice and guidance to the doctor and company. When the Government and the majority then reduce the funds allocated to this in the government budget of Stoltenberg, by a whole of 25 p.m., the chances of success are also weakened by the measures described in the Memorandum of Understanding. When the Government at the same time announces that they will be tightening up the health pay legislation if the sick leave does not go down by 20 p.m., then one must be able to ask questions about the Government's will. In fact, one must be able to ask whether the Government has a hidden agenda to bring forward its batch programmes, all of which aim to limit the sick pay scheme, either through the day of the withdrawal or other reduction in sick pay. The Labour Party will ring the bell on the sick pay scheme and see it as one of the prerequisites for combating poverty. I wish that during this debate the Social Minister would issue a guarantee that the sickness pay scheme will not be touched as long as she is in the Government. In this way I ask for a clearer answer than what she gave to the representative Molvik. So finally, one thing that I think has been terribly difficult, and the result of our consideration in the committee almost makes me despair. This relates to the self-payment of artificial fertilisation. I am aware that it was the government of Stoltenberg that originally promoted this proposal. But a number of letters from individuals tell of despair and grief. I'm glad that, after a review of what this means and what it means for individuals, our big group found that it was right to do something about it. Involuntary childlessness is a major problem and covers more than you might initially think. Every seventh pair is hit by it, and the problem of infertility is growing. Another health problem of this magnitude had hardly been dealt with in this way. Limiting a public health offer through financial means is also a new principle in our healthcare system, and for my part I would say that it is neither a democratic nor a socially fair principle. Unfortunately, there is no majority to go back to the Government's proposals in this round. But I feel that we can't just let go of this matter, and that we have to work to find a solution for the many people who feel hopeless today. I hope that there will eventually be a majority here in the hall for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1394	We have had a violent poverty debate here on land. That's good, so we're going to have to correct unacceptable bias. On the other hand, it is sad that such a debate is at all necessary in one of the richest countries in the world. But we have discovered that it is. The co-operation administration has put emphasis on the efforts of the poor. It is set out in the Sem Declaration and has been followed up in the new government's addition to the State budget. Concrete proposals for action in the next year’s government budget will help fight poverty in the short term, while the government’s announced poverty package will address longer-term challenges. I have noticed that it has evolved to compete for who should be the best in the class in helping those who are not on the sun. Although it might be tempting to ask why those who have had the chance to do something in the past, have not done it, I think it's better to see it in a positive way. The more people who engage in the debate and make proposals, the easier it is to achieve good results. In order to combat poverty, more targeted measures are needed than in the past. General arrangements are poor, as well as a tendency to be very expensive. The measures taken must go to those who need help most. For those responsible for child care, it is particularly bad to be poor. Children who experience growing up in poverty learn quickly the difference between poor and rich. For them, this is about being part of the community of which most other children are part, getting the opportunity to participate in leisure activities and not apologize when you cannot attend different events. Good luck isn't at all to be out first with the last, but that's not what this is about. It's about having the opportunity to be part of the community. In order to facilitate the situation of disadvantaged families with children, the Government has proposed to increase the income-tested child supplement for disability and old-age pensioners. In measuring social assistance, the Government also proposed to keep the cash support out of it. These measures, together with the price adjustment of social assistance and an increase in the minimum deduction, are targeted measures that will specifically favour families with children. In addition, the State budget co-operation administration has spent funds on municipalities for the next year to make camp schools free of charge from the autumn of 2002. In the Social Committee, the Right and Christian People's Party supported the proposal to keep cash support out of the measure of social support, both to strengthen the economy of families with children and to ensure equal freedom of choice for all families with children. This did not want a majority of the Social Committee. By proposing that the compensation of municipalities for keeping out of the cash support should go to increased child supplements, the majority of the government's line of combating poverty among families with children is continuing, but at the same time the majority introduces a difference between people who are suspicious. So families with children who are in a difficult situation must have their freedom of choice restricted to all other families with children. Not granting the same rights to those who are in a period of life where they depend on extra community support is making even more visible the difference that many social welfare recipients feel. There is also a signal that children are receiving social assistance per year. definition is best served by kindergarten and does not spend the day with mother or father. If this is the case, we have other public authorities that take care of it. Many with limited resources depend on drugs and treatments. A unanimous committee went in to lower the annual billing fee for the payment of balances from NOK 1450 to NOK 1350. Furthermore, an overall committee concludes that disability and old-age pensioners are exempted from the prob lems of medicines and nursing articles. However, in the case of this exemption, it is not to hide that the government parties are concerned that this is not targeted enough. We therefore welcome the fact that in the context of the revised national budget, the Government will look at measures that make the scheme more targeted. However, although these proposals are in place, the problem for those patient groups who are dependent on drugs and treatment that do not fall under the system of annual self-interest is equally high. This is particularly true of many disabled people and chroniclers. Therefore, it is hoped that this government will succeed in setting up a «Tap 2» for equity. That's the only way we can protect the real big consumers, and those who are perhaps the most struggling to have the opportunity to pay for what they need to get a better and more worthwhile life. In Document No: The 8th proposal on measures to combat poverty has several proposals that the Right and Christian People's Party have problems in supporting. By proposing to make SIFO’s rates binding on municipalities by measuring social assistance, it will eliminate what is meant by social assistance, namely a social benefit for a temporary period of time. SIFO rates are based on a standard budget to show the costs of maintaining a general consumption level over a longer period. This means that expenditure has also been taken into account in addition to what is necessary. It is important to maintain the distinction between a budget that should be a standard for most people and indicative guidelines for support for temporary living. In the case of free kindergartens and SFOs to all social welfare recipients and those with social security under a certain level, it would be most appropriate to look at this when the Government presents its announced change in the funding of kindergartens, which involves bringing together all public support to kindergartens into one state grant. At the same time, it will be possible to develop targeted guidelines to meet the need for a good and reasonable childcare provision for those with special needs. Of course, the proposal to end the use of residential housing for families with children does not pose any problem for government parties. It may also be added that the Government will develop national hospital quality standards and that the Government of the State budget for next year is proposing to raise the boute tax ceiling in the housing aid scheme by NOK 5000 in its four largest municipalities. So from one thing that one of the richest countries in the world can't be familiar with, to another thing that we can't settle down with either, namely a record high sick leave and a record high proportion of unsatisfied. This is a cause of great concern both for individuals and for society. Despite the strong focus on sick leave in recent years, absenteeism still points upwards. The latest figures from the Statistical Centre show that sick leave has increased by 4.7 pst. from the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year. This shows that the intention agreement between the social partners, which is to reduce sick leave, must succeed. The Government has made it clear that it will follow up its part of the agreement. There are different reasons for the high level of sick leave, and there is undoubtedly much that can be done both to prevent and to ensure that sick people return to work as quickly as possible. Current keywords are: better working environment, better health care for people, and more flexible public support schemes. Here all the parties to the Memorandum of Understanding have a responsibility. However, there is no reason not to ask critical questions as to why we living in one of the world's richest countries, with high standards of living, good welfare systems and good health services, have such a sick workforce compared to other countries. Nor is it the case that only the workers are ill. The latest survey from the Statistical Centre also shows that among young people between 20 and 24 years of age, we find the strongest growth in sick leave. Now it's probably hard to be young, but no one has to tell me that there are no other reasons to look at it than better work environment and a more inclusive working life, when 20-year-olds become more fragile than people who have been in hard physical work for years. It is also important to avoid looking at changes in the system that are intended to take care of those who get sick and those who need disability benefits. It must therefore have consequences if the parties do not achieve their objectives in the lower sick leave agreement. It is therefore important that a majority of the Social Committee has given the Government its support to assess the tightening of the sick pay scheme if the parties do not meet the objectives they have agreed on. If sick leave is not severely reduced, it will help undermine the whole system and help those who are really sick. Society can afford nothing but freshly reported workstocks. Moreover, the fact that we have a record number of sick people does not help the shortage of labour. Nor does it remedy the lack of money for other good purposes that we today allocate about 25 billion kroner for sick pay payments just above the state budget. And a business that has to assert itself in strong competition on a daily basis cannot live with the fact that large parts of the employees get sick at all times. In order to preserve and develop the welfare community, we need more people at work. In this way, sick leave must be reduced and all those who are – or have the opportunity to become – employed, but who are not today defined as it is, must enter the labour market. That's also how we can get funds for other problems out there. Finally, it might be tempting to challenge the Workers' Party to clarify the cuts they have proposed in the hospital sector of just over 200 million. kr to cover its various additions. How does this relate to the simultaneous assumption by the Workers' Party of a higher level of activity in hospitals than the Government's government budget? I expect the Labour Party to clarify this in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1436	There are a lot of things that are important in a society, but we can't help but realize that the health and social sector is in some way in some kind of special position. It'll be a bit of a stupendous society if we have a very good infrastructure, if we have brilliant finances and a high scientific level, but it's so that people don't have to adequately care for their health and their social needs. We have had many debates on health and social policy, not least on how to properly operate our hospitals, care for the elderly, how social security systems work, etc., and right now we are in a significant reform of the health system. A lot of things are going to happen, and big construction projects are going on. And it's a significant boost we're facing. It's a new organization that is likely to give us a better health care. Today, state councils have been talking about an overall and overall approach to this, and that must be very correct. In this context, I would nevertheless like to remind the Health Council of the investigation that has been carried out, and the applications that are now available at the Council of State in the case of a new hospital in Follo. All aspects taken into account are a very good project, which, in a new and comprehensive structure, will cover the areas in question also in Eastfold. When the new Rikshospitale finally got its location decided, there was a unanimous collapse that stated that after this placement it was a prerequisite that a new hospital was built in Follo. This is a little bit of the big plan work that's now going on, but it's an important piece. And it would be very unfortunate if this project were to be added now when the new structures were put in place. I therefore assume that the Minister of Health will include this in his overall plans for the regions when they fall into place. Another issue in the health and social sector that we may not discuss as much as hospitals are the different user organisations and their roles. I heard Right Bent Höie in an article earlier today pointing to the importance of these organisations' work, and he said among other things. that they provided a significant part of the information and information to authorities and professional environments to which they would otherwise not have access. And I very much agree with Höie's assessments of this. There are many such organizations, and it may not be quite reasonable to mention any of them in particular, but I'm going to do it to illustrate the situation. Back disease is one of the really big people's diseases in our society. They represent great personal suffering, of course, and they represent enormous costs to society. All 30 pst. the increase in sick leave is due to back disease. And payments on the social security budget and for treatment amount to nearly 15 billion dollars a year. Nevertheless, research and specialisation in this area are relatively modest in relation to other health care areas. These are relationships that we should have time and advice and the opportunity to look a little bit closer to. It is, of course, an association for people with back problems. And you can expect that such a union could contribute to this work. But they are now struggling to maintain their business because they are not getting the money to do it. The amounts are, of course, modest. I see in the setting that the Workers' Party and the Center Party will give this association NOK 700000, but the two parties are on their own about this. And it surprises me that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, with their attitudes towards this kind of work, did not find the opportunity to participate in such a grant. I hope you find the opportunity to look at this again. It is not fortunate that these kind of associations and organisations should have to reduce or reduce their work when it comes to as modest amounts as we see in this context. Finding practical and appropriate ways of enabling user organisations to continue their work will be a very appropriate and sound use of funds, both professionally and economically.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1451	Training institutions play a very important role in society. They shall be readily accessible to the users of the service and shall act as an extended arm for hospitals. The rapid development we are experiencing today in medical technology and specialisation in our hospitals means that more and more people can be treated and saved back to life. The development of hospitals is positive, but unfortunately there are still gaps and geographical differences in the provision of rehabilitation. In many cases, lack of training helps to reduce the effectiveness of costly emergency treatment carried out in our hospitals. This is very unfortunate and needs to be corrected. When the new year’s government takes over hospitals, it will ensure better access and closer cooperation between hospitals and training institutions. The government will draw up and return to Stortinget with a new, permanent and more predictable financial instrument for the institutions. Many of the training institutions are struggling with poor finances. The Government Parties, together with the Advance Party, managed to raise the budget for the training institutions by 20,5 million in the budget agreement. kr in addition to the original budget. The increase shall be allocated to institutions and shall be at an increased curfew price. Let's see the increase in the frame of 20.5 million. kr, the Government has taken into account that any reduction in interest rates and reduced electricity charges will also benefit institutions. The government has also taken further steps to make it easier for users with poor finances to benefit from important institutional treatment. The government has therefore chosen to reduce the proportion of users from NOK 190 to NOK 150 per year. Day of curfew. Habilitation services for children have developed intensive training services to a small extent. The government considers it important that parents have freedom of choice in relation to the different treatment arrangements, and therefore welcomes the need to continue to provide staff to ensure the further development of the Petø methodology and the Doman method. It is important to develop a strategy on how healthcare and welfare can better meet families with disabled children than at present. As an example, the Petø Centre on Hamar will be an important part of such a strategy. A joint committee went in to continue the Workers' Party's proposal to give free pills to girls from 16 to 19 years of age. The intention of the proposal is to reduce the number of abortions. Already, both anaesthetic and abortion pills are accepted. Personally, I'm not very happy with the developments we're seeing here, and I think it's too easy to turn all responsibility over to young girls, who are often faced with a lot of pressure. It is therefore important that one in the process of reducing abortion rates also uses other instruments rather than distributing more and more variants of pills. My impression is that we are gradually living in a more or less accepted pill society. Take a pill and most of it'll be fine. The free pill must not be a signal to the boys that they do not need to take responsibility. The use of condoms protects against both pregnancy and gender diseases, and should therefore be a similar offer to the pill and marketed far better than today. Perhaps at a later stage, we should also address the question of the changes in attitudes that are needed to reverse a very negative and dangerous trend, where both young people and adults in today’s society are becoming increasingly less critical to increasing pill use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1477	The Social Committee on the Government of Cooperation is broadly in agreement with its efforts to combat alcohol and drug use. Norwegian 15-16-year-olds drank twice as much today as 10 years ago. The increase in access to alcohol, which the Christian People's Party has fought against, is one of the reasons for this increase. The government has reported an action plan on drug problems and it needs to be done. The government and especially the Christian People's Party have been criticised for the relaxation of the level of fees in the budget for next year. The Christian People's Party has agreed to that reduction with the background that we want to keep a broad focus on the wine monopoly and, if possible, reduce border trade and illegal transposition. After the Christian People's Party's view, there have been far too many wine monopolies in recent years. We've gone against it, we don't want it to be opened more this period, and we don't see the need for any further lowering of the fees. Now you get an evaluation of how this gets done. We're also critical of the Vinmonopolet's Web Room, and that alcohol is more available with a self-contained pole. It is not the task of the Vinmonopoly to increase its translation. Supply and price are key factors that affect consumption the most. The co-operation agency’s commitment to prevention and leaking measures for drug addicts is also joyous. In relation to the Stoltenberg Government, the Co-operation Government has shown a far greater responsibility for the vulnerable and weak groups, who are often drug addicts and their families. The government will come back to this on a broad basis in an action plan. The dental deficiency in Norway is alarming. A collective committee is busy increasing debugging capacity. A minority in the Committee have requested that this education be submitted to the University of Tromsø. The Christian People's Party has not joined this comment, because we think the Government will come back and decide what it means. But for the Christian People's Party, we have a clear lead in that we want one to come to the conclusion that this education should be added to Tromsø. That's what we think gives the best recruitment of students from the county and the best recruitment of trained dentists to the county. That being said, I would like to add that in other parts of the country there is also a shortage of dentists, including dentists. in my own part of the country, the West. A section strengthened in the budget is supported by the rehabilitation centres. The committee is well aware that these are hard-wearing economically, including the four special centers. In this context, let me point to a center in my own home country, the Haugland Center, which has a competence and a level in line with the four special ones. The West Health Region has asked for it to be recognised as a special health sports centre. I hope that the Government will take up this application and give it a positive outcome in the 2003 budget. State takeover of hospitals was the Christian People's Party against. One of the reasons was the fear of centralisation of the local hospital and the preparedness and delivery function they have in many cases. The function of the local hospital is important. I am sure that the Minister of Health will follow closely and see how this develops, so that it will not be like many fears. The various proposals from the Social Committee are in the main positive. But when families in need of social assistance from the Center Party, SV, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party are deducted from NOK 36 000 if they have children in the age of cash support, it is bad. The freedom of choice of all other worlds should not be the weak one among us when they need extra help for a period of time. It is a discrimination, and it is not a worthy treatment of this group. Finally, I would like to point out that the lack of health professionals is great. The Christian People's Party is in and out of the budget, and we point out that conditions such as pay and working conditions need to be discussed with the organisations to find good solutions. Let me also tell the representative Hildeng from the Labour Party that when she tried a little late to doubt the Government's position on this agreement that concerns the disease problem, it was an attempt to find a foothold. She was standing in the air. There is a very clear follow-up from the Government in the comments, that if this does not happen, it should be considered. No government, no one responsible, can say that the same way this works, nothing should do. I hope that there will be a wide agreement on this too. Finally, I'm one of the many people who are wondering how the Workers' Party can expect to increase the effort from the hospitals, more activity, when one at a time cuts 200 million. kr. Is there a great expectation of a fall in prices and wages at the back, or what?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1511	The evening post recently reported on the positive experiences in Eastfold to get back to work. Many are involuntary. They want to be at work, in whole or in part, but accept social security instead. This leads to the loss of important labour, to increased social spending and to a less meaningful life for individuals and often a life of low incomes. The right to work, to take part in professional life and to spend their own money, has a lot to say for the individual. It is a good thing to be able to secure income that can live from when one cannot work, but it is not a good thing to be excluded from work when one wants to participate. I've known many through life who have had a strong desire to be in work, but who have given up. Most of them never tried, they were competed out of people with fewer problems and finer papers, or they wouldn't say otherwise. Since we made it possible to try without losing the insurance, more people have had a chance. The test in Eastfold shows that it is possible. Others have given up because they can't run, don't have the chance to work part-time or at a slightly lower pace. It's pointless from all quarters, to my mind. As I said, they can work in whole or in part, we need the labour force, they get a better life, and society gets fewer expenses. Therefore, I am proud that the Labour Party has always prioritised labour market measures and other measures to stimulate and qualify people to get into work. This budget refers to extending the arrangements for returning disability benefits to work. The Labour Party also looks forward to a new work environment law. Strengthening efforts to create a more inclusive working life is crucial. I'm thinking of a young, mentally retarded girl who's had a disability since she was 16. She has had several tasks for the municipality where she lives in the last few years. It has given her a richer life, and it has given people who have worked with her, a new experience and a richer life. I do not care that she would be able to do a part-time job with greater willingness to adapt, and to replace it with a part-time job, for example. half of the social security with pay. I see her to me brilliantly if this was possible. I also think of him who hurt a hand and was dissatisfied when he was a little over 20 years old, but who wants to work. After many years he had tried at the local factory in his field, but no willingness was shown to let him take a little more breaks to prevent stress and pain, to let him work, for example. little more than half the time for half the pay, e.g. What was going to give him another chance was another defeat. It's also a defeat for Norway. What distinguishes people economically in Norway is whether they're working or not. Very many of them who wear out financially, accept social security or benefits of a different kind. We do not meet those with general measures alone, but we do not need to meet them with individual and often client-creating measures that they have to apply for because they do not get the economy to go around. We can create measures that take those who have the least in at least three ways: Firstly, we can reduce the payment for services as we do today, by lowering the ceiling for assets in health services and giving old-age and disability-free medicines on a blue prescription. For the other, we can create income-graded payment schemes for e.g. place in school leisure arrangements. Thirdly, we can increase the transfers to deferred groups. In the budget this year, transfers to kindergartens will increase by over DKK 1 billion on the initiative of the Stoltenberg government. It provides space for multiple places and lower parental payments. Those who have the least need to get the most reduced prices. For this reason, income-rated bets are important in order to prevent people from having to take kids out of kindergarten because of the price. Studies show that parents who have a disability have a lot of bad advice. They can reach us by increasing the child supplement in the population, as we do today. I hope that the Government will look at such possibilities when it comes to proposing measures to combat poverty in Norway – not measures to make clients. Finally, I must say that I am disappointed that the majority today have not let themselves be moved by the stories of the involuntary childless, but that they are continuing to make a self-payment that will make this an offer to those who have the most. It may be that having children is not a human right, but we who have been given know how much an experience it is. It must be a mistake for your own payments to be so high that those who think least and those who are young cannot afford them. I am pleased that the Labour Party found room to reduce the property monthly when the budget limits were increased. This must be more important than tax relief for those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1532	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1535	I would like to focus my search on an area that many people have been in today's debate. A major challenge is to quickly rehabilitate patients, including patients. to get people back to work as quickly as possible. In such a workline policy, training institutions have an important function. Therefore, they need to have framework conditions that allow for a qualitatively good supply. Many of these institutions are now at the point of balance in order to survive at all. If they survive, there is a big problem with getting the necessary investments and the daily operations. This is going to be a bad circle where the quality of the supply is also falling. A reduction in the property from 190 to 150 kroner a day and a compensation for this is very good – good for patients and good for institutions. More people are able to use the offer. But the locked curfew price gives institutions a bad ignition. In the treatment of the revised national budget, an increase of 25 million was introduced. kr. The working party is now proposing an increase of 50 million. kr, but I find a multiple for 20 million. kr. same what, then this number is some kind of emergency help. Because what's important is that, among other things. what the Government itself says in the Sem Declaration will be followed up, that we will have a plan for a long-term and secure financing system for these institutions. There was also a plurality that was expressed in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget, and I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to remind the specialist councils and the government about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1544	From 1 January 2002, the State will assume responsibility for hospitals. Power and authority are transferred to regional health establishments. These shall be governed by so-called professional boards which are not even obliged to comply with general principles of publicity. The size has again chosen to pursue policies at arm's length. The ability of ordinary people to influence one of the most controversial policy areas is virtually zeroed out. Let me not take a rematch, but I will equally take full advantage of the opportunity to talk about the importance of the local hospital Follo Hospital. In 1997–98, the Stortinge decided to build a new local hospital in Follo, when it was mentioned the location of the new national hospital in Gaustad. Thus, Stortinget has already said yes to Follo. This must now be followed up. Follo Hospital is planned as a reindeer local hospital for approx. 163,000 inhabitants of Follo and Inner Eastfold. The hospital operating concept suggests that this will be a model hospital for cooperation between different subjects and different professionals, and for cooperation between the specialist health service and the first line service. Patients shall meet comprehensive and coordinated services in the areas of somatics, mental health protection and anti-drug services. The hospital shall also contain a county-wide centre for eating disorders. Furthermore, it has been considered that Follo Hospital should also be a pilot project in relation to implementation, as the hospital should be established through a total enterprise model. The alternative to expanding Follo Hospital is an extension of Aker Hospital, or a shared solution between Aker and the new central hospital in Akershus. Calculations carried out by a project group consisting of external consultants and professional representatives from both the Municipality of Oslo and Akerhus County, show that the investment costs are approximately the same for the three alternatives. So it's not more expensive to build new ones in Follo than to build new ones on SiA and/or Aker. In operational terms, expansion in Follo will be between 56 and 106 million. kr cheaper in the year than with a shared solution or an extension of Aker. Economically, there is no doubt – society will benefit greatly from building Follo hospitals. Society will also save through reduced pressure on roads and public transport. And with a impact field of more than 160,000 people, it should just be missing that not even those living in the Follo region are required to have a hospital in their neighbourhood. All control plans locally have been completed. You can almost put the spade right in the ground as soon as construction decisions are made – and this must happen before 2005, otherwise the area will go back to the landowners. I would like to emphasise the importance of prioritising this project, mainly in view of the needs of the area it is to serve, but also because this hospital represents both operationally and extensively a new concept that is very important to be tested in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1565	I want to get to grips with the human resources situation in the health and care sector. The Centre Party has also previously addressed and proposed measures to improve this situation and the recruitment of the healthcare sector. Some of these proposals are repeated in this budgetary procedure, and we expect the Government to follow up and come back with proposals for measures that have more impact than we have seen so far. Among other things, I hope that the Christian People's Party will return to the opinions and attitudes they had in ours. The centre party opposed the creation of health businesses. There are still aspects of this scheme that we are very concerned about, but we note that some policy actors are very quickly integrating the business model. In this budgetary position, the Christian People's Party is involved in a praising of the corporate system, which is in stark contrast to the Christian People's Party's then-functionist and health spokesman said and argued only six months ago. But things change quickly, and it's also interesting to note now that health care providers, the Advance Party, are the ones who are most concerned next to SV today. In fact, today we have a common concern about what the future and framework conditions of state hospitals will be like in the business model. How to deal with research and education in e.g.: The point competence, in fact, was of the concerns we in the Center Party raised in the treatment of the hospital reform in ours. We are still concerned about the future of local hospitals and the emergency preparedness within the responsibility of healthcare companies. In this budgetary position, we also clarify the need for emergency medical preparedness in connection with both a well-developed and decentralised ambulance service and medical care, and we believe that this needs to be ensured through cooperation and with state-administered resources. With regard to the economy of hospital operations and health care, we believe it is too scarce. That is why, in the Central Party, we have proposed an increase and strengthening of this budget line by 240 million. kr, plus that we want to spend the so-called foreign billion, of which there is still a lot of money left, also domestic. The experience with the use of this money should indicate that more people had supported SV and our proposal today. The great gap in information on how the foreign billion has been used and what it has resulted in is also a concern on the part of the signatory. The numbers we got from the Stoltenberg administration are later strongly corrected and adjusted in relation to how many people have benefited from this money. So a little bit about assisted fertilization and the proposal from the Center Party there. It has been said today that we do not follow up this matter, but we do. We ask that those who have started treatment for involuntary childlessness before 1 December of this year have the treatment with the funding system that we have today, so that we do not hit the hand of those who have already started. Then I think we might have to come back to that matter later. Finally, we support and vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1585	I just want to stress that in the case of Document No. 8:22, on the subject of health treatment abroad that can be carried out in Norway under certain conditions, we promote the proposal on which we are associated with the Centre Party. After all, it seems more and more pointless that we should send people abroad when we see that there are alternative treatments in a number of Norwegian hospitals, and that it could have been done just as well and much more reasonably here. We should have the majority on that. The experience it has given us should now allow bidding rounds in Norwegian hospitals, so that they can compete on equal terms with regard to those treatments. Alternatively, one might imagine that foreign hospitals are starting to export to us, so that they will not affect their domestic economy, and that would make the futility of the existing system visible. Otherwise, I would like to stress that we in SV are happy that we have the majority of people agree that the government should look at the registration of sick leave in pregnancy, and look at whether absences that are directly due to pregnancy can be registered in ways other than sickness absences. It is relatively stigmatizing for women that there is so much difference between women and men in terms of sick leave. In part, it may be due to the very registration of absences during pregnancy as a disease, which is often the normal consequence of pregnancy, but which does not allow work to be done. So to it with in vitro fertilisation, or assisted fertilization. I have to say that there is something to right the Labour Party does in this case. So it's the Stoltenberg government that has proposed full propensity. In this respect, it is not so alarming when you look at the settings of the Wage II Committee. This was discussed last year by the Social Committee and a majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, joined in the evaluation of the Wage II Committee, where it was stated that in vitro fertilisation it was to be an adjunct. It must be low priority. And of course, when you're going to put it out in life, you're going to be able to stand firm for what you've meant in the past. What's paradoxical here is that SV also agrees that you should not impose full self-esteem on that service, so that the Workers' Party is now actually dealing with more peculiarities than we do in SV. Nevertheless, we will defend the intention of the Labour Party government based on what we've been through before, among other things. in the Wages and salaries II Committee. And when the Workers' Party comes with such great results in relation to the excesses, they should first of all take it in closed rooms. This is happening precisely because their own government has taken the initiative. What you might have to be more concerned about, were peculiarities of sterilization, because you might imagine that it has social consequences with regard to who can afford to pay for sterilization, and that's suspicious. But an excess of in vitro fertilisation, as we suggest, of NOK 24 000 for three trials, people should be able to afford, in line with the need to pay for adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1596	Document No 8:2, which deals with immediate action against poverty, is part of the budget debate today, because the following comments from my side: The Bondevik I government provided the anti-sampling message, a message with five anti-sampling strategies. The message, which changes the job title three times in the process – from living conditions to equalization – was in the Storting nearly one year. Neither the Labour Party, the Right Party nor the Progress Party had any special hassle to get the message adopted. This happened after the Labour Party had taken over the government. They rarely took good time to follow up the many suggestions contained in the message. The temperature of the electoral campaign was high in response to poverty. The declarations of will were many. It's sad for those who are tired of making the economy go around, that at this point we don't have to come anymore. It is sad that the Labour Party did not come up with any more measures in its draft budget, but it still promises that they will now recognise their shortcomings and come back in the context of the revised national budget. The Central Party found it necessary to promote six immediate measures to combat increasing poverty in Norway. We are pleased that we can now endorse the following: The government must support the use of shelters for families with children. The base ball shall be free of charge and the training law shall be amended to give it a reality. Cash support shall be advised into the basis for the calculation of social assistance. Seventy million dollars. kr, which this costs, shall be used for the adjustment of the child supplement in social assistance. Social assistance standards shall be price adjusted and otherwise evaluated. Free kindergarten and SFO for long-term social assistance clients should, as I understand the debate today, be appreciated. The center party says it's sorry that the Storting is not ready to go any further. We believe that child-responsiveness should benefit the child also in poor families. When, according to the Ministry of Justice’s assessment, child protection cannot be required to cover the tax liability of a family, it should also not be able to benefit from parental retirement. We suggest that SIFO be used as a guide for support for life support. We disagree that NOK 60 000 per year. years of life expectancy for an adult person today is being produced as too much voice. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party say in a comment in the Inner. S. No 47 that ‘there is a need to focus more on living conditions other than income’. They have shown that in their own draft budget. They are more concerned with tax relief and thus higher disposable income for those who already have the most than securing an income base that provides the daily bread to those who have the least. From before, the Workers' Party had distributed $3.5 billion in tax bills. Bondevik II has followed up with additional billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1611	One of the most difficult issues during the budgetary procedure has been the introduction of abstinence in assisted fertilisation. This proposal was initially proposed by the government of Stoltenberg. It has long been agreed that the treatment of involuntary childlessness belongs to one of the lower priority tasks of Norwegian healthcare. The proposal from the Workers' Party came quickly and without prior consultation. After a lot of pressure, the Workers' Party turned over during the treatment of the financial situation and granted 65 million. kr, so that the excesses can be set to 30 pst. of the original proposal. But then the Workers' Party has returned to its original proposal. Under the framework under which the Social Committee has worked, the Labour Party has not budgeted a krona for this process. In view of this, it is strange that the representative Asmund Kristoffersen, who is otherwise a righteous man, and the representative Britt Hildeng, later as if this money were granted, and that the self-payment for the involuntary childless is not so great. In its general comments, the Labour Party states that ‘however, it is not possible to re-prioritise properly within the adopted budgetary framework’. It seems that the Workers' Party covers all its additions with cuts in the hospital appropriations. This is going to be inconsistent. But I expect, of course, that a serious party such as the Workers' Party will relate to the framework adopted by the Stortinget for the Social Committee, and here the Workers' Party has not given a lower priority to assisted conception.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1616	I have a brief comment on this with assisted fertilization. I do not understand that the Labour Party is at all afraid to take up this matter from this pulpit, because the Labour Party has proposed this. I do not think that this proposal had come from the Finance Minister of the current Government. The debate so far has been constantly concerned with combating poverty in Norway, and that is good. You can see that the poor we've always had, and then ask a timely question about why you haven't done anything from different governments in the past. I was very enthusiastic and impressed by the social minister’s presentation on how this government should achieve more targeted the fight against poverty – not against groups, but against individuals. There's the whole key to social policy, that we're gradually becoming better able to see the individual behind the problems, and not groups of people where the differences can be great both in terms of economics and other things. This is promising. But I think that if we're going to do this in practice, we have to go into the majority proposal in the vote. We need to get a combination – physically – of the agencies involved, namely Aetat, Social Security Office and Social Security Office, so that those in need have one place to go. Then you don't expand your privacy for three different instances, and be equally wise when you're done with the third instance, whether you get help there or somewhere else. Finally, I just want to clarify the Roman numerals that are in the setting and that go on the Cancer Register. It was necessary to make another suggestion to put in place what was the Storting's intention when we pulled out the Cancer Register. The Cancer Register shall be an independent, stand-alone institution with its own board, and in that I add that an external board of the Cancer Register shall be appointed independently of the Radium Hospital. I hope that is the understanding that the majority of the Committee has also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1625	There are some issues that have emerged in the debate that need to be clarified. First, to the representative Ballo, who was concerned about whether the Right wants a rematch on the fixed medical system. I think I have given a reasonably clear answer to that. We have accepted the decision that has been made, but I am, like the Minister of Health, concerned that if there are negative consequences of the fixed medical system, an en route grab this so that people are not hit. Two important areas have already been identified, both the watch regime and the referral system, which were also the subject of an inter-pelling debate by the representative of Alvheim. So it was Britt Hildeng who was involved in the health pay scheme. She wondered if the government had a hidden agenda in relation to this. Then we have to listen carefully, because there is an expert here in relation to having hidden the agenda in the case of the sickness pay scheme. We were clearly aware of that in the election campaign. To that it is to say that we are fully behind the commitment that has been made. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which has been so concerned about this matter, is taking time to try and then doubt whether the government parties are behind an agreement of intent that we repeatedly confirm that we are behind it. I rather think that here one should gather and try to work together to get the results that a person wants. Then Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa had an article about poverty. I think that the article illustrated in a good way that the debate has moved in a good direction since Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was the social minister and worked on the Equalization Communication. Now there is a concrete focus on proposals that can solve poverty problems, and less on Difference Norway. For the debate on Difference Norway, the mouth was largely in a sort of envy debate where a debated dividend tax and money consumption among the richest, while the poor became the losers. Then there is also a clear answer from the Workers' Party. Is it in the appropriations for the hospitals they cut at the top of 200 million. NOK to cover its addition proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1640	The last article illustrates well – despite the apparent consensus now on combating poverty – the multi-dimensional difference between the right and the left of Norwegian policies on this issue. Because in what the right-hand side is talking about as an envy debate when we're discussing fair distribution, and that we have to create a society that's less poor, they've systematically run a fight all the time, they've every time it's been suggested for the poor, ran right on the same envy arguments to them. Will the poor people now get a fifty-count too much – think if they're lashing it away at some nonsense? This is the way the debate has been going all along. We have to move away from this. The debate on poverty is not about whether anyone should be treated as a group or someone should be treated as an individual. We on the left and in the Socialist Left also believe that everyone should be treated as an individual, but we are concerned that we should have a society that does not create poverty and make you poor, whether you live on social security or have a low wage. If you have a dwelling that you can afford to live in, without having to go to any office, or two or three offices to ask for support hist and here, and you can pay rent – okay, then you don't feel poor. But if we have a system where all the rentals are so high that almost everyone who goes to social security, and everyone who has a low salary, has to get housing or social assistance to do it, well, then very many will feel poor and clientised. If we have schools, leisure arrangements and cultural services that you can use for free, you're not out of the question, and you don't feel poor either. If you can go to a job, sail if you're very sick, you feel that you have better quality of life, you have better advice and you don't feel so poor. That's the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. We want to spend the money so that we can build a society where fewer people are excluded and poor – a safe and good public sector that makes it possible. And then finally to the sick pay. I also heard Höie's posts saying that the Government and the Right and the other parties behind the Government are now fully behind the sickness pay scheme. So this government must strike the table with the NHO, which is now going out in the newspaper after the newspaper – yesterday I got a book from them – and systematic doubts about the agreement they have signed. So it has to end. The parties to the agreement have to stick to it, and then it's not time to say at every opportunity that we really don't mean this, we really meant what we meant before we signed the agreement, but we're now just going to see how it works. So it's absolutely necessary for us not all to think now that the Right and the Government are letting the NHO go ahead. [[President clubs]] President - I should just give a little explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1653	The representative will be allowed to do so, but the president would appreciate it if you respected the speaking time. The representative has had 3 minutes to prepare that explanation of vote. - But, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1656	I just want to say that SV is going to support proposal No. 7, from the Central Party, on case No. 2 and that we want to support proposal No. 8, subsidiary when our own has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1661	It's interesting to hear the representative Karin Andersen stand teaching all the other parties from this pulpit. She ended her speech by saying that the government parties, or the Right, will go to the Progress Party to change the health pay scheme – from where did Andersen’s representative come from? We have to try to be a little bit despicable when we're standing on this pulpit. What made me take the floor now was an article by the representative of the Aarøen. I think I have to ask that one of the representatives of the Government present here clarify a few things. The representative of the Aarøen spoke correctly about the Christian People's Party in his speech, but since the Prime Minister of this government comes from the Christian People's Party and the Minister of Health comes from the Christian People's Party, I have to ask some questions. In the case of dental training in Tromsø, the representative Aarøen from this pulpit says that the Christian People's Party will have it permanently to Tromsø. Then the representative of the Aarøen goes on to say that you don't want any more wine monopoly sales in this period. We've just gone into a new expansion period. I think it's a little important to get some things out of the government here. How are we going to deal with this? Is this the viewpoint of the Government, or is the view of the Christian People's Party only as long as they are in opposition in this Chamber, and that they have a different view when they are in the government offices? It might be a little bit interesting to get an answer to these particular questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1670	The President makes it clear that the Storting meeting is ahead of everything. So any group meetings, etc. has to be postponed until we're done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1673	We have made it clear, through the financial position, what priorities and measures we are in favour of. With regard to the framework area 15 and the specific question from the representative, Höie, who dealt with the hospitals, it is correct that we have granted approx. 200 million. kr less for hospitals and specialist health services as a whole. That's 200 million. NOK less in relation to an amount of approx. Forty - two billion dollars. In my health region – with gross headcount and with all reservations – it may mean 20 million. kr less for the specialist health service. That's the number. We believe that this can be justified because the Stoltenberg Government has proposed a quite solid increase in the area of specialist health services. Within the millions of kroner that we do not use in hospitals, we have chosen to significantly strengthen the drug prevention work. We believe that it is very important, and it may also help to reduce the use of healthcare. So in this case, there's a context here. With regard to sterilisation, we have proposed zero in proportion through the financial position. And in the case of artificial fertilisation and the Wage II investigation, it is likely that both the representative Ballo and others know that there is a rough mask system that requires further investigation and assessment before it can be said that it is operational. Therefore, it is not possible to look up in the Wage II investigation – I have done so – and find the answer to what the Wage II Committee proposes in part for artificial fertilisation. I think it's important that we take it inwards, otherwise we'll sort of get into some kind of abuse relationship with this investigation. The aggregate of the working party has made it quite clear that there should not be full self-payment on artificial fertilisation. That's what we've done in the setting. And the arrangement for funding is – as far as I know – the same as SV had, i.e. approx. 64 million. kr related to the medical side of this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1687	I think it is important to clarify to the Right Social Policy Spokesman that there are completely different basic attitudes than envy in the Central Party's commitment to smoothing out in this society. We think it has great self-esteem for everyone in Norway, whether one is poor or rich, that one to now has focused on a society where individuals have equal opportunities, where one has small differences and thus common values, common meeting places and common offerings of education, care or other services. We think it counteracts the social unrest that one sees in many other societies. A fairer tax system allows you to subtract from some of the people who have the most and who don't notice that they pay any more taxes. This allows for a better basis for those who have the least, compared to their everyday lives. So back to that comment from the Right and Christian People's Party where one says that a "must focus more on other living conditions than income only". Let me stress that this is about both – and. It's about focusing on a softer workline, on better public services, on a more social housing policy, on a more equitable tax system, which is already called, and on a more fine-looking social security network. We don't talk about either of them from the Center Party. We talk about both – and. And we find reason to remind ourselves of all five of the strategies in the Equalizer message when we see that the focus is now being shifted by those who are currently in government. The Minister of Social Affairs has today announced a plan of measures to combat poverty. I thought it was exciting, and I wanted to be constructive about it. I want to give her the opportunity to tell her what time perspective she's working for. Governments have also announced an action plan in relation to the drugs field. The central government announced such a case for the Stortinget in the spring of 2002. This has not yet happened. It is a work that is in a hurry to get ahead of the Storting, and I am interested in getting to grips with the timing of the social minister in relation to this invaluablely important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1700	Ola D. Incense has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1703	I just want to briefly say something about the central social and health administration and the discussions that have been about this lately. Diverging the research from an administrative body means that we think it is very important. Several of us have had contact with people who are now excited about how the workplace and the conditions of their research and activities will be. It is important to facilitate framework conditions for this research to be free, independent and legitimate. My contribution – at least in this context – is that the research activities, which are to carry out and actively research, are separated from the Directorate from the first day and added to an invalid research institution or base that gives legitimacy to this research. It will not take place by associating with and organising an executive agency. So just one sentence at the end of the so-called poverty debate - addressed to the representative Bent Höie. Fair distribution is not envy, but solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1712	At the bottom of this debate, let me make a few comments on questions raised by various representatives. Several representatives have raised investment issues in the hospital sector. I want to follow up on what the Stoltenberg government suggested, namely to review the overall plans and activities on the investment side of the hospitals that are now available. It is a very large sum of wishes and plans that the county councils have worked on and that some of them have worked particularly intensively with in recent times. As the Stoltenberg government stated, we will return to the revised national budget with a review and a priority in relation to this. That's absolutely necessary. It's a big deal. As far as the fixed medical system is concerned, I am also there, as compared to the hospital reform, concerned with implementing what the Stortinget has decided. And we're going to do it for the sake of seeing that any unfortunate rash will be adjusted during the March. The implementation of the referral system, as it has worked after the introduction of the fixed medical system, is an example of something that should be adjusted, and I have a dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association on how it can happen. We have also asked the Health Authority and the county doctors to follow up all the findings of ambiguity about the obligations of the local authorities and local authorities, as part of their supervision. As for the Cancer Register, I confirm that I will follow up the majority decision that seems to come here today, about a placement as a separate institution in the Radium Hospital enterprise, with a separate board, where I think it's natural that it's external representation. As regards the issue of reimbursement for the medicinal product Remicade, I feel it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the proposal that seems to have a majority here today will require a legislative change, and I therefore have to come back to Stortingen with that question before such a reimbursement can be implemented. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1725	Keywords and heading are the contract of intention. Both the representative Andersen and the representative Hildeng were concerned with both the agreement and the health allowance percentage. The government is engaged in the Memorandum of Understanding. And the starting point -- just to clarify it -- is that an agreement is an agreement. The government’s agenda is to reduce sick leave by at least 20 pst. during the contract period, with effect from 3 October of this year until 31 December 2005. Much more disabled workers are being added than today, and the target is to be set after closer discussion and it is to increase the actual retirement age. The parties have undertaken to do so, and the parties stand by the commitment agreement. We put full pressure on it to be implemented, and that it should be in line with the objective of the agreement. In addition, I also believe that I should simply acknowledge the action plan against drug abuse, and similarly against poverty, saying that this is what we are working on, both of us, and that we are coming back as soon as possible in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1734	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1737	I have a brief comment on the last article by Asmund Kristoffersen. I understood the representative Kristoffersen there that he said that it was not possible to look up the position of the Wage Committee II on priorities – he had. Now I have also looked up the document in which it is not possible to look up. In vitro fertilisation was mentioned. But what's more eye-catching is that the Workers' Party, while they were in government position, as late as March 13th this year – and we were also in and out – stated that they agreed and joined this basis for priorities. Of course, this isn't a priority textbook, but when you say in the government position that you join the priorities outlined here, it's remarkable that so few months later you can take an opposition role as if you're completely unknown with both your own government's assessments and the considerations you've been taking on as late as in March the same year. It's obvious that we're more trained in this opposition role. We will be in charge on the day we get in position, but then we will have to have a line in the policy we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1746	Asmund Kristoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1749	I don't have the custom of taking the word to reply to SV in matters that we essentially agree on. I'm just going to be a little bit stated. In fact, we have not been treated in Stortinget as a document by the payroll II committee. It's not promoted by any government. Thus, Stortingen has not taken a decision on the recommendations that lie there. That's the first one. The second thing I really stand by is – without having read the position of the Wage II Committee from perm to perm, at least not lately – is that the impression that I have formed after reading what I have read in Wages II, and in Wages I also for that matter, is that in many areas further investigation work is required before the Council of State can promote proposals for concrete self-interest measures. That's my impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1758	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1766	Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e1773	In the course of the debate, 30 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 2 and 19–21, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party's proposal No. 3, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-6, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 7–13 and 25, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals Nos. 14-16, 26 and 27, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 17 and 28, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposals No. 18, 29 and 30, by Ola D. Glötvold, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 22-24, from Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party The President will table the vote in order to vote first on the minority proposals under Framework Area 15, then on the minority proposals under Framework Area 16. Then we take to heart the proposal for a decision on the framework area 15 and then the framework area 16. Before we start voting, the President will deal with the proposals. 23 and 24 from the Right and Christian People's Party, which in the course of the debate has been converted into transmission proposals. The text of proposal No. 23 it shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a review of the overall social welfare system for medicinal products with a view to simplification. In the context of the revised 2002 national budget, an assessment is made of the admission of new medicinal products to the blue prescription, including Aricept.’» The text of proposal No. 24 is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2002 to return to an assessment of borderline cases between hospital products and bladder prescription preparations, including Remicade, with a view to the most appropriate funding solutions.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We then go to voting and start with proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e3661	Proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e5526	Proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the odontological faculties of Oslo and Bergen respectively, from the autumn of 2002, be given the opportunity to increase the student admission by 20 students at the Oslo faculty and 10 students at the Bergen faculty.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regional health establishments provide the purchase of health services financed by the input-based funding also in approved private hospitals and clinics that do not currently have a contract with the specialist health service.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider both the proposals for location available on equal terms in connection with the establishment of the ‘Modum bath in the North’. Proposals for finalisation shall be promoted in the context of the 2002 Revised National Budget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e5553	Proposals Nos. 7-13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to look at the financial consequences of the fixed medical scheme for small out-of-court municipalities, with a view to ensuring that these municipalities do not have to pay more for basic health services to their inhabitants than the other municipalities must.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the initiative to ensure that high school education throughout the country is provided with an active and competent school health service with resources for cross-border cooperation and to help cover the additional costs of expanding the school health service in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a monitoring report on a national activity plan that takes into account the serious links between diet, physical activity and health.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out an evaluation of the impact of the deployment of input-driven funding on efficiency, possible treatment distortive effects and assessment of societal costs, and to present the matter to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the development of the MS centre in Hakadal, either by allowing for an increase in the curative rates, or by contributing to the cost of capital in the construction process.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the consequences of a treatment guarantee for children and young people with mental illness in relation to existing legislation and to assess the organisational and personnel aspects of such a scheme.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget proposals for new pharmacies contracts when the agreement with NMD expires on 1 March 2004 or if the agreement expires for reasons other than this.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e5601	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e7438	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government through the Health Region of Nord to ensure that the Lofoten Hest Foundation and the Health Centre are covered by the establishment costs, construction costs and operating costs associated with the establishment and operation of the Centre as previously agreed between the State, County and Municipality.’ The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have said that they want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e7455	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, on the basis of the action plan for health professionals 1998-2001, to make rapid proposals for concrete actions that can bring healthcare professionals back to their occupations and that may lead part-time assistants and nurses to work more. In this context, the government is asking that a pay package be drawn up by the government for care personnel in line with what has previously been done for other public sector professions where there have been major recruitment problems.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e7470	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the responsibility of health care establishments for the payment of costs of sick transport.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a full dental education at the University of Tromsø, where public dental care is given special attention in the study programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e7492	Then we're going to vote on minority proposals in Framework Area 16, and we're going to start with the proposals of the Center Party. Proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the Center Party, are admitted to voting. Proposal No. 29 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e8714	Proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e9930	Proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from the Party of Advancement, to voting. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to step down the curtailment of the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners to 15 pst. from 1 January 2003.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the reimbursement rate for carrying out MR studies is the same for private X-ray institutes as for public outpatient clinics.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e9952	Proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the raising of ordinary gravitational assistance in order to bring it more into line with general price developments’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e9967	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 22 from the right hand and from the Christian people. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the reimbursement rates for the conduct of MR studies in order to make them equivalent to the public and private X-ray institute, and to be assessed collectively under the same heading and subject to the same rules.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e9984	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19, 20 and 21, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the social security schemes for single dependants in order to ensure them a safer economic foundation and return to the Stortinget with proposals for necessary changes to the social security rules and financial appropriations in the context of the revised national budget for 2002.’.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to approve Røros Rehabilitation Centre as a rehabilitation institution as soon as possible and to provide, in the context of the 2003 State Budget, the necessary amounts to ensure its operation in line with previous unanimous comments from the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate a State instrument for the recruitment of doctors for municipalities who over time have problems with satisfactory medical coverage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e10011	Then there would be a vote on all minority proposals, and we will move on to the vote on the motion for a resolution and start with the framework area 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e11934	I was injured to vote in favour, I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e11941	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e11948	I think there are a lot of people who have voted wrong, so we're taking the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e11960	Then some Roman numerals remain under frame area 15, which will be weighed over separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e11993	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left want to vote against. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e12028	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left still want to vote against. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e12074	The President assumes that the Labour Party wants to vote against. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e12112	Then we've reached the 16th Framework Area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13334	Then there are still some Roman numerals, which will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13372	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13407	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 2, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 5, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, No. 7 and 8, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party The President noted that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is not promoted. Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make SIFO’s rates binding on the municipalities in measuring social economic assistance for subsistence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13442	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13447	It is subsidiary support for proposal No. Eight. Proposal No. 7 we primarily support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13454	Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the necessary resources as a result of increased social assistance issues, medical and dental expenses, free kindergarten/SFOs for social welfare and social security beneficiaries below a certain level. Similarly, the local economy needs to be strengthened in such a way that primary schools have sufficient resources without requiring students to be required for self-employed persons.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the indicative rates of social assistance in order to bring them to the level of SIFO rates and the standard of living. In addition, it must be possible to cover unforeseen costs, such as: to the necessary medicines, medical and dental treatments.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13474	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines for the measurement of social benefits for living in such a way that child welfare and lump-sum benefits are not included in the income for the calculation of social assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13489	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, is then taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the system for setting social assistance rates, including: by assessing the public schemes to be included in the income base of each social assistance beneficiary and the level of costs to be taken into account.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make concrete proposals for the adjustment of social assistance rates in the context of the review of the revised national budget in the spring of 2002’.» The centre party has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13513	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a system of priority, and free kindergarten and SFO to all children with parents who have social assistance and/or social security under a certain level of primary income. The budget requests the submission of a case to this effect at the latest in the context of the 2002 Revised National Budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13528	Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13556	During the debate, Mr Gunnar Ballo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Appropriations carried over from cover to cover. 2790, Item 72 Medical treatment abroad is disposed of in such a way that the funds can also be used for patient treatment in Norway where this appears to be professionally sound and the waiting time for treatment will not exceed that for similar treatment abroad.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-12.ana.ud243e13583	There is no record.
