ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e15	The representative of Ivar Østberg has asked for the floor to withdraw a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e18	On behalf of the representative Odd Holten and myself, I want to inform you that I am withdrawing Document No. 8:95 on labour market measures «Precious sheltered employment».
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e23	The notification by the representative of Ivar Østberg that these proposals have now been withdrawn is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e35	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e46	State power should play a central role in the comprehensive restructuring of the power industry in Norway and Europe. It assumes a financial strengthening of the entity. The government proposes adding NOK 6 billion to new deposit capital and opening up another DKK 10 billion to the increased loan and guarantee framework. In Stortingen there is a broad consensus that Statkraft is an important player in the power industry. There is also a clear majority who want to use State power to exercise public ownership. The State arena is the European market, with a solid position in Norway as a foundation. The deposit capital and the extended loan and guarantee framework currently under discussion are to be used mainly for purchase in Norway. It is suggested that the company will need an additional DKK 8 billion in deposit capital in 2004 and an extension of the loan and guarantee framework. In the latter case, it has been suggested an extension of NOK 12 billion. Thus, in total, it is 36 billion kroner in deposit capital and extended loan and guarantee frameworks over a three-year period, which are mainly to be used for purchase in Norway. There is a clear atmosphere in the Storting to give Government a financial strength. The Right Party and the Advance Party have wanted to solve this by privatisation. State power shall play a central role in Norway. The Committee has discussed the central importance of this role. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that it is important to clarify exactly this question. The goal is a powerful company of a certain size. On the other hand, the company is in the process of gaining a dominant position in the Norwegian market through its direct and indirect ownership. The four lots consider that if the additional buying-in plans available are implemented, the company may be given such a dominant position as to undermine free competition in the market. One assumes that the competition authorities follow the situation closely. It is necessary to clarify whether the role of State power in the restructuring of the power market may undermine the important principle of the deregulation of the market adopted in the context of the 1990 Energy Act. If Statkraft carries out planned acquisitions, the dominance will be significantly enhanced. In the current year, one could arise in a situation where the company has an influence of more than 60 p.m. of the power generation. State power will sit in most enclosed spaces where important decisions in the power industry are made. The company has a unique position to coordinate and optimise its own interests. This is not in the interests of consumers. The result may be higher electricity prices than in a market with more heavy players. We are at a crossroads where political authorities need to make a clarification. One has to think about the space to be created for other actors in the power industry. In my view, there is a need to stimulate the development of different competences and to open up diversity and competition. We need other major actors who can exercise national ownership in this important area. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party support the Government's proposal. They stress that even though State power is high in Norway, they are small in the Nordic region, which they believe is the natural market to deal with. They therefore believe that Statkraft’s share of the Norwegian market is of less interest. The Parties will otherwise explain their views in the submissions of their respective representatives. The left wants a strong State force, we want it to be a central player in Norway, with a foreign involvement. However, this central role does not depend on the company’s overall dominance in Norway. The left therefore believes that it must be a prerequisite for capital expansion to take place in a way that does not block the development of strong companies based on municipal and municipal ownership. This can be achieved by the fact that State power under direct and indirect ownership does not have an influence in more than 50 pst. of Norwegian hydropower production. This means that input funds can be used for purchases in companies where State power is already inside, it can be used for foreign involvement or for restructuring by a seller going out into some companies to enter into others. There has been no willingness to make such a premise during committee proceedings, and therefore the Left will vote against the company being given new capital. There is a majority to add new capital to State power, the new thing is that there is a very scarce majority doing so without reservation and on the recommendation of the Government. During the committee proceedings, the competition situation in the Norwegian power market and the role of the Competition Authority were the subject. So the government and the majority believe that it is wrong to talk about a Norwegian market in this context. After the Committee had completed its work, we were informed that the Competition Authority, in connection with the acquisition by Statkraft of shares in Vestfold Kraft and the municipal power company of Skiensfjorden, stated that it was concerned that Statekraft was in the process of controlling such a significant share of the regular production that market power could be exercised in South Norway. It was not known to the committee when we did our treatment. And it's worth noting that while the Government and the majority will not deal with a Norwegian market, the Competition Authority is concerned about the South Norwegian market. The concerns of the Competition Surveillance Authority have also been expressed in other ways and after the Committee has given its opinion. In an interview with TV 2, a representative of the Competition Authority states that there is a critical need for State power to be given new billions and more power. It is believed that when an actor has such great power in the market, it can in turn lead to a higher price. These are, therefore, objections of the Competition Authority to the general general situation and general market situation of Statkraft and not to an opinion in relation to a specific buying-in case. This scepticism is also shared by others. The central statistical agency of researcher Tor A. Johnsen says that Statkraft is a gambler in an otherwise well-functioning competition market, and the company can become a monopoly in parts of the electricity market. If competition is weakened, higher prices may be offered. Johnsen points out that the Competition Authority will deal with each case when it comes to the table, but there is reason to lead where, says the representative of the Statistical Central Bureau. It will be very difficult to break up state power later, if you've already allowed a merger or a buy-up. I also believe that this scepticism is widespread in the industry and, in this respect, shows that the CEO of Bergen Energia, Bill Schjelledrup, says to the TV 2 news that the introduction of SEK 16 billion to State power will have a long-term, permanent impact on price developments in Norway – i.e. not individual purchases, but the general allocation of capital will have this effect. This is a problem that should have been addressed and addressed more thoroughly both by the Government and the Committee. It is possible that the Committee has not done its job well enough at this point, but all the input made in relation to the Government in order to get the competitive situation informed was rejected because it was uninteresting what was the picture in the Norwegian market. One did not help to gain insight into the general objections that the department was then familiar with and that had been expressed by the Competition Authority in connection with previous purchases. I am disappointed that it is not a majority that will set the framework for Statkraft's place in the Norwegian market. I would like to stress that the Left will not govern State power in relation to single purchases; it must have the freedom to prioritise within the framework that I believe should have been set. Competition supervision and others will ensure that attention is paid to the role of State power in the power industry. Although the company is providing funds, there is an open question of whether State power can implement its purchase plans in Norway as they are now known.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e82	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e85	I have to say that there were eye-catching statements from the rapporteur in the opening of this debate, and that it is the case-rapporteur who is standing today and will send the matter back to the committee. I thought the case rapporteur would have taken this initiative earlier. Now we have voted on it, and the matter is under consideration. Furthermore, I would like to draw the case rapporteur's attention to what the Left has been doing in the past. They have been involved in the adoption of the National Forces’ purpose paragraph in this process. The Right Party and the Advance Party have had and have a different direction on this issue, and I have all respect for that. But the Left has participated in the adoption, at the latest in connection with the Innst. S. No 66 for 1999-2000, that Statkraft should be a strong Norwegian player in the Norwegian and European power market and that muscles should be given to be involved. And the Left has almost helped to bully State power for capital in the past. They've been involved in a 75 pst dividend, and then all of a sudden we discover that the left now is talking about power prices, and now it's time to go to action against Statkraft. Then I would like to ask Left: if we are not going to give muscles to one national company in Norway, who is going to buy the individual power plants around? Well, then it's going to be foreign actors in full moon. I want to see the municipality of Kvassheim when the municipal politicians are going to ask for a loan guarantee of several million to buy up in some company. No, then it's set up against the hospitals. The size, with the Left, has given Government the lead to State power being dominant in the Norwegian market and buying up to ensure public ownership of these important resources in Norway. I agree with the case rapporteur on one point, that monopoly is a notch, and we shall take care of that. However, he must not agree that the Competition Authority should direct Stortinget in what they do – the Competition Authority should take a concrete stand on each case. And so I would say: it was remarkable that the Left came at power prices today – they have been active in the market and said that power prices must rise. We've heard that every day from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e98	The President would argue that the term 'robbe' does not automatically fit into the parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e101	The left has always been for the most efficient production and a competition that brings down the prices for the manufacturer, so it is right that we have been accompanied by an electricity charge that helps customers to adjust to prices that make it attractive to save and that raises other alternative production. But operating with monopolists who push up prices has never been left-wing policy. The classical centre position and the position of the left are national ownership of these resources, but it is exercised in a way that does not create a monopoly situation in the market. That's exactly the position that's the classic position of the Left, as opposed to the position of the socialists and the right. I've suspected Tore Nordtun to have made the line before he heard my post. I used large parts of my post just to stress that Statkraft was an important tool to secure the position in the market and exercise national ownership. But what we've decided is that they're going to be a strong actor, not a dominant actor, and I think we're getting a lot of unfortunate results from the dominant role that Statkraft is now in the process of getting. We have a duty to correct for that. I believe that national ownership can also be exercised by having a few regional actors owned by county councils and municipalities that complement Statkraft's ownership. I think that would be a good structure. So I agree with the party trap of Tore Nordtun, Myhre, who is a central energy politician in Rogaland and director of Light Energy. I definitely believe that what I said in my post is well in line with the previous position of the Left on these issues, and definitely in line with what is the classical centre position with balances between right-wing policy and socialist policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e110	I have a feeling that the left is going one step here and one step there, and then they have to land one place, and that's in the place that they now seem to land, on the right side of the market liberals. In this case, a clear view of what the Left stands for. The left will not be in a multiple that determines that the owner structure, return and concession laws should be fixed - they will not be included. In other words, they want a different structure, so they want to privatize the power sector. And then it's clear that it's a proper strategy to let Statkraft live without money, so that they can survive so far, because then all the other stakeholders, the foreigners, come to take over. That's what the Left wants. They must be honest enough to admit in this matter. It's a policy that SV strongly opposes. If the Left does not believe this, they should support the policy that SV stands for in its proposal, simply go in for the minimum price, or go in order for municipalities to be able to borrow cheaply, so that they can be involved in the fight for the different companies. But they don't want to go along with that either. And as the crown of the work, they will also not be involved in any environmental policy leadership on how to run the company. When SV proposes that a policy be pursued in accordance with the Kyoto agreement, so that a non-buy is not contrary to it, or that a non-buy into nuclear power, Left says that they are purchased where they want to. No, one step here and one step there, now the left country has to go. And I think they have countries where they belong: on the right hand side of Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e121	SV has submitted in the vote proposals which are made as conditions, as reservations. It's going to be at the minimum price, and it's going to be an opportunity to give the municipalities cheap loans. Then one would believe, as the Left did, that when the reservations were not taken into account, the consequence was taken and the vote was different. SV has here waved with these good goals and knew that there is no majority for them, and then they obediently stand behind the Workers' Party and Statkraft for a policy that means that Statkraft is free to use its money to build up in gas power production, buy into foreign companies engaged in nuclear power production, etc. So if we go one step here and one step there, SV goes a long trip here and a long trip there. I am committed to stating that what we are doing in this matter is good in accordance with the policy of the Left. We are committed to the concession policy. We don't want to privatize Statkraft. It is clear from the setting that we do not want to privatize Statkraft, and I have assured Langeland on a number of occasions that we are also committed to the concession law, which is closely linked to the history of the Left. We want national control of these resources, and we have provisions today that help to ensure that. What is the alternative to Statkraft, as we see it, is to create some robust regional actors with county municipalities and municipalities as dominant owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e128	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e131	In the proposition, the Stortinget is invited as owners to make the necessary capital contributions, etc. in Statkraft. It's like owners we're going to decide on this matter, and I'm saying it this way because I have felt that there might be substituting motives in a matter like this. But I guess that's not just a feeling either. The Stavanger newspapers have been quite dismayed because the rogaland representatives in the handling of this matter have not been able to be of greater help to their own energy plants. The State which owns must regularly assess the capital situation of companies in which the State is a whole or a joint venture, and it is important that such assessments can be made on a purely commercial basis. State ownership should not be managed in such a way as to impair the development potential of companies. Therefore, as the owner, the State shall assess the investments by considering the amount of the contribution capital, the definition of the dividend policy and the requirements for equity. I am pleased that a majority of the owners, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, want to add NOK 6 billion to the deposit capital and support the extension of the loan and guarantee framework by NOK 10 billion. This will provide the company with good opportunities for further development and operation. By adding Statkraft capital, it facilitates continued significant public ownership of Norwegian hydropower in a situation where municipalities and county municipalities sell themselves out. The Christian People's Party wants capital expansion and increase in the loan framework, but reduces the amounts to DKK 4 billion and DKK 8 billion respectively. It must be allowed to ask why — if not the answer is that you want to reduce the company’s development potential. The State has several roles when it is a business owner. The State is the legislator, which lays down important framework conditions for companies, among others. through general market law, company law and tax law. In many cases, the State is also the concession authority, for the power industry, this is the law on repatriation and concession. Here, companies must implement their strategies according to adopted guidelines which are to be taken into account by others for the sake of the State. It is therefore an important challenge for governments to keep track of the different roles — otherwise state ownership becomes a threat to companies. It is suggested that those who oppose such a capital injection as has been proposed by the Government – and this is the case, to a large extent, with the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – largely justify this with competitive conditions. This is undoubtedly a mixture of the roles of the state. If Statkraft had also had private owners, as proposed by the Right and Advance Party, such a combination would hardly have been particularly feasible. The left is on its own and is committed to directly intervening in competition law in this specific case. General cleanliness, as I see it, implies that the competition authorities are entrusted with the management of competition law. On the basis of the Government’s proposal, the Competition Authority shall normally assess the specific purchases made by State Kraft in the market. It is very important that both government and magnification keep their tongues straight in their mouths when the state has to take more care and play different roles. For a large number of companies in several industries, it would be very serious if state ownership on such a basis were to be discredited. The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party in particular stress the negative consequences of the dominant position of Statkraft in the Norwegian market, which, in their view, would undermine competition. It must be allowed to ask the question of a sub-privatized State power that wanted to make further purchases in Norway would have a less dominant position in the energy market than a full-time State power, and also whether it would be possible in a possibly sub-privatized State power, as right-wing wishes, to use the element of competition and competitive conditions as an argument to oppose capital expansion. So I'm not in doubt, it's State power as a whole state company that you want to attack, and limit the company's possibilities for further development. The argument is simply not valid if we are to keep track of the state's roles at the same time and stick to the issue today. Here is the owner to act. It would be unfortunate if such a procedure for a weakened State power would be effective. That's why it's good that the majority in this case keep the different roles of the state from each other in a neat way. The fact that there have been substitutive arguments for the position of individual parties in this matter is well described in Stavanger Aftenblad: that six large-scale representatives of the Energy and Environment Committee could not help. No, let me express satisfaction at the fact that at least some parties have been able to separate snow and bart in this matter!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e161	Initially, I would like to say that I react to some of the references made by the representative Blattmann. That's exactly what the representative Blattmann brings up in conclusion, namely the different roles of the state that owns, which should perhaps have worried the Workers' Party a little more. What has at least been my starting point in this case is the need to see alternative, larger companies evolve into state power. There are opportunities for in three areas, as it is today. It is in the Stavanger area with Light Energy, in the South-Trøndelag area, and it is in the Oslo area with Viken Energia. These three areas have companies that have the potential to become an alternative to Statkraft. When one then takes up the concern that the Storting gives State power so much capital that one can hinder the development of alternatives, I think it's a fair position that you don't have to attack with the references that Blattmann makes here. Otherwise, I would like to point out a matter that we have had to deal with earlier today, namely the partial privatisation of Statoil, where the majority – including Blattmann – states the following: ‘The majority believe that the current ownership structure of Statoil is problematic. First, the country has a number of tasks in addition to ownership. When the State is both the owner, legislator, controller and tax collector, role conflicts may arise. Secondly, the current ownership structure prevents the company from being exposed to the same market surveillance as its competitors.» These objections should also have been raised by Blattmann in this matter, and I would like to ask the representative Blattmann if she does not see some parallels here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e175	First of all, someone wanted other municipal and county works to be able to buy up, and the fear that State power would become too dominant in the market. I assume that the competition authorities will assess the dominance of State power at the next purchase. It's their role. And I can then ask the representative Höie the question: if the majority of the Storing had done what the Right would have done, and as the Left did, that is to say, we don't want to add this capital if this can't get into less than 50 pst. by ownership – or in total – how much competition would there be for the sale of Agder Energie, whose State power would in this case have to withdraw its offer? At least then there was no competition. So to this with the roles. Yes, therefore, I stressed quite strongly that here it is about holding my tongue right in my mouth, and I believe that the Council of State Akselsen answered quite well on that question as it was asked in the Stortinget Hall now during the treatment of the Statoil case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e184	In the past, we have dealt with partial privatisation and listing of Statoil, which the representative Höie was also involved in. In that case, the Workers' Party showed that they had seen the light and could think both new and constructively. In this case, we unfortunately see a completely different side of the Workers' Party than what we saw in the previous case. Here comes the old-socialist ideas again up to the surface where state control and control is the most important thing. Clearly, if competition disappears and electricity prices increase, then the Workers' Party has no role to play. I would therefore like to ask the representative Blattmann: When will the Workers' Party take over the fact that more and more people today are struggling to pay an increasingly higher electricity bill? And what will the Workers' Party possibly do to limit the notified increases in electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e191	I am not surprised at the position taken by the Progress Party and at the position taken in this matter. I basically have great respect for a party that manages to keep some lines of politics, and we've never been in any doubt about what the Progress Party wants: they don't want state companies at all. So to this with who saw the light or not saw the light. It could be discussed, but in that case, there are many people who haven't seen the light, because there is a large majority in this room who want to retain State power as a whole-time state company. In terms of power prices, there are many things that affect prices to a large extent, but I don't believe that State power in a Nordic market with the power they have today can affect prices to some extent. To this end, competition from both the other Scandinavian countries and from Northern Europe is far too great. So I have to say that the argument that Statkraft's purchase and a monopoly situation will affect price formation in Norway, I have no faith in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e200	It is probably true that the majority have not seen Light in this matter. It is suggested that some representatives, and I understand also those who have signed, have a hidden agenda in this matter. I will certainly reject that. I'm not hiding that I think it's exciting plans that Agder and Lyse have, and I'm actually a member of that one could get a solution by a merger. But it is probably also quite unthinkable to involve a specific matter in the treatment here today. That's why we haven't, and that's why Statkraft is free to choose which companies they want, even if they get a framework for their own business. Then they can sell out somewhere else, for example. in Sweden. My question to the Labour Party representative is whether she does not see that when an actor becomes totally dominant in a market, as State power will be if they implement their purchase plans, one comes into a market position that allows one to influence prices and keep them up in a different way than if there is competition? And with regard to the warning issued by the Central Statistical Agency and the Competition Authority on a general basis, does not the Workers' Party consider it reasonable that we as owners and policymakers in this area also have the opportunity to take this inward, even if it was the question of capital injection to Statkraft, which was the theme when we started the treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e211	I wasn't talking about seeing the Light, I meant the Light. And I think there are a lot of people who have seen the light in this case. I have a pile of newspaper clippings – from Stavanger Aftenblad, more from Aftenposten and one from Dagens Nueringsliv today. In Stavanger Aftenblad of April 4, the day we gave the case, they say: «Presentation of new State Power Purchases» That's the headline. And on the other hand, «Rogaland has six staging representatives in the Energy Committee. It does not help Light Energy.’ No, in this case, it's not Light Energy and its development we're going to discuss, it's actually State Power, and we as owners are going to do something. It's important for me to stress. And in fact, I believe that it is important that Statkraft can be a provider in this case, and that not one county municipal company should be the only provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e234	I must honestly say that this is a difficult matter. In all the comments I have made in advance of this case, I have said that State power needs capital to be able to participate with weight and force in the international and increasingly liberalised power market. The Christian People's Party wants State power as a leading Nordic energy company. Norway is an energy nation, not just a petroleum nation. Then we must also facilitate that we have players in the energy market who can withstand tough international competition. Then you can't just be a little boy. This important consideration must be taken into account. At the same time, it needs to be balanced against regional Norwegian players and trends towards a monopoly in the Norwegian power market. From the Christian People's Party, I have said in the comments that it will be important to strike a balance between these two reasons. And we still mean that. That's also the background for the line that we put on in this setting. Initially, I expected an increase in the capital injection for use primarily in the international power market to be a good solution for State power, and I assumed that there were such plans clear. Then I also had a little hope that there were alternative instruments in this respect that did not provide instructions from the Council of State in this type of matter. But then came the proposition, and both from the Government and from the Government, we are told that competitiveness cannot be restored primarily abroad, but must have its basis in greater strength at home. State power is too small in an international context. At the same time, no control means exist in relation to the entity's dispositions other than instruction. State power is now operating, as we all know, on commercial terms. This – which we may like or dislike – is laid down in the entity's purpose paragraph and lays the basis for its dispositions. The majority, even with the support of the Christian People's Party, has for the most part abandoned itself and the Council of State has ruled in relation to business arrangements. Guides from the Storting towards limiting purchases in Norway and larger purchases abroad, to which the Christian People's Party would have to be positive, would either result in instructions from the Council of State in contravention of the Government guidelines. The Christian People's Party is not prepared to break with the principles that the Storting has drawn up for State power and to reverse the line that has been applied in relation to state companies in general. We want to do a consistent line. And leaders who have little value, we didn't want to come. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the only remaining possibility was to reduce the amount of capital injection in relation to the Government's proposals, both in terms of equity and in terms of the loan and guarantee framework. After our assessment, this is the most tidy way of dealing with this matter. It gives State power a solid increase in capital, but at the same time less leeway, and the consideration of regional actors in the Norwegian market can be better taken into account. We have sought advice from experts who know the market, and we have come to the conclusion that a reduction in the capital injection compared to the Government's proposal of DKK 4 billion would make sense. This means that State power can make purchases in the Norwegian market, but on a smaller scale than one originally foreseen. This also means that other actors will have the opportunity to build up more strongly. An underlying and important consideration in this case is, of course, also that we do not want to contribute to speeding up a privatisation debate in relation to State power or to contribute to foreign purchases on a larger scale in the Norwegian market. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the company and its power reserves and production capacity remain on state and, to a large extent, national hands. This has also resulted in some prudence in the approach of the Christian People's Party. Here we also clearly separate layers with the Right Party and the Advance Party that want privatisation. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, it would also be a defeat for the energy nation Norway about our largest power company will not be able to claim itself in international competition. Why, then, can we not initially support the Government's arrangements? I think the setting speaks for itself. We want to strengthen Statkraft as a company, and we add up to it. However, in our opinion, it is also a point to focus on developments in the Norwegian market. Despite the integration of the Nordic power market and the liberalisation of the international energy market, we still consider that there is still a basis for looking at developments in the Norwegian power market separately. This is clearly also done by the Competition Authority when they say in their decision of 14 December 2000: ‘Competition supervision fears that Statkraft is in the process of gaining control of such a significant proportion of the manageable production that market power can be exercised in South Norway.’ When the Competition Authority can operate with assessments in relation to the market in South Norway, Stortinget must also be able to make its own assessments in relation to the Norwegian power market and not just refer to the Nordic and international energy markets. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, diversity and competition are important in the Norwegian market. Only a few companies are able to build up to such heavier regional and independent public-owned companies. These should be given the opportunity. It may be several times smaller if State power is allocated to the entire proposed capital and is able to implement all its purchase plans. This is the background to our alternative proposal. Although we support a relatively large capital injection to Statkraft with our approach, we also find reason to warn against the company becoming too dominant in the Norwegian market. If all Government plans are implemented, the undertaking may sit, directly and indirectly, up to 60 pst. of Norwegian power generation. Therefore, Christian People’s Party and other parties ask that the Competition Authority follow the situation very closely. The assessment by the Authority of the acquisition by Statkraft of shares in Vestfold Kraft AS and the municipal power company of Skiensfjorden and the statements made in the media in recent days indicate this. That's good. And that's necessary. From the Christian People's Party we see a correlation between what the Government is now proposing and what is signaled for 2004. This seems to be a two-stage rocket. And I can already signal that we are going to follow developments in the power market very closely. We will also be critical of new proposals on capital injections. Here, developments in the Norwegian energy market and the state power's own national and international dispositions will be decisive. Now that it appears that there will be a majority of the Government's proposals, we must in the meantime put our trust in the Competition Authority doing its job. Only supervision has the power to intervene against acquisitions under Sections 3 to 11 of the Competition Act. But it has to be done by law in individual cases and on the basis of concrete assessments, not on the basis of general company strategies or general market assessments. In this case, the Christian People's Party has not been able to find a proper solution. We have not had instruments at our disposal that, in our opinion, could be used to achieve exactly what we want. This has also been reflected in the proceedings of the large-scale group on this matter. However, our intention has always been to strike a balance between the importance of strong and effective State power in the international market on the one hand and the consideration of regional companies that can grow strong in the Norwegian market, on the other. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, which we are promoting, takes this into account as far as possible – and within the framework of State power under which we operate today. In my opinion, adding up to this line would be a better option than the Government's proposal, and a better option than going against the whole proposal on capital injection. I bring up the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e269	The representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e274	In this case, it is interesting to follow the center option as a project, I would say. So one has the left, which is in the pocket of the Right and the Advance Party, one has the Center Party, which is with the Workers' Party and SV, and then has a Christian People's Party, which is confused and which doesn't quite know what to choose. Then they choose to go their own way, and that's the one I have a little hurt to understand. One might like to talk a lot about that one does not want Statkraft to have such strength in relation to regional companies, and one might like to talk about that they do not need to have such strength as the Workers' Party and the SV and the Centre enter into European context – but it's kind of in the middle of everything. So I want a better explanation as to why the Christian People's Party has taken on this rather remarkable role – in the loose air, to say it like that. So until what I think Hilde Frafjord Johnson is forbidden, that is, with environmental conditions. Frafjord Johnson himself has a government seat and has chosen not to provide guidelines for the use of the oil fund. This has led to Norway making some investments that, in my opinion, should at least turbulent Christian People's Party, but I must admit that it has our reasonable silence in relation to the criticism that SV has raised here. But why won't the Christian People's Party join in giving some leadership for Statkraft's purchases when it comes to Kyoto and the climate issue, or when it relates to the relationship with nuclear power stations? I don't quite understand that it shouldn't be possible to use the governance that one actually has.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e282	To the first question to the representative Langeland: Who is in the pocket of whom, you can ask, but it seems like the SV and the Central Party have landed in the pocket of the Workers' Party in this case. And at least that's what the Workers' Party is happy about. So when you don't want to land entirely in your pocket, but you want to add some leads that mean that there is actually more room for regional actors, you have with the principles drawn up by the Stortinge in this room, really only one alternative left, and that's to reduce the amount of capital supply, because you no longer have the opportunity to use the right of instruction. And Langeland would like to say that center positions are to land in loose air – that is, as a wing party on the left hand side – but in my opinion, it is a sensible center position that is consistent with what we have said in the Storting before and that does not violate the principles that we have set out for the role of State Power. Then I can immediately answer question No. 2, which has exactly the same thing to do, namely, that commercial conditions have State power freedom to do for itself – based on the purpose paragraph and on the principles drawn up by the Stortinge. This means that putting environmental trends in relation to State power is going to be difficult. Then you have to change those principles and break them. In the setting we have said that we will not do so in this case, and that also means that we will not do so in the matters that Langeland refers to. That being said, I would say that we have a different situation with regard to the oil fund. The oil fund is not an enterprise, and it is fully possible for us to set guidelines for investment when the practical tools are in place. At least I can promise Langeland that in relation to that document. Eight proposals that SV has promoted will work actively to find good solutions – they have now come further than before in terms of tools. I think we can see with excitement until we deal with that very proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e296	Today, it has been historic for part of the energy sector, namely the petroleum sector. Statoil has been partially privatized despite having parties wanting this for just a short time. The background step drawn by the Government as the reason for sub-privatisation of Statoil is almost identical to the background step drawn up in this case. It is a state-owned company that is no longer an instrument of energy policy but is a focused commercial enterprise in a competitive market. At the morning meeting, the Workers' Party's solution was to go into the sub-privatisation of Statoil. Now, at the evening meeting, the solution is to donate EUR 6 billion of taxpayers' money and to give the company guarantees to play in the market with another DKK 10 billion. I am convinced that the next time the Stortinget deals with a major issue related to Statkraft, it is partial privatisation – on the initiative of the board and the new management – that is on the agenda. As a young and inexperienced representative, I wonder why not the majority in this room can occasionally be able to point out the course itself, to take the initiative in the right solutions. Most people here know that this is going to be the end result, but why should the board of directors have the pleasure of putting the first premises in the case? It may seem that the Workers' Party is dependent on a recommendation from the Board of Directors of State companies before they can take control. I also want to subtract another parallel from the petroleum industry. The size is concerned that there will be two Norwegian-based strong oil environments. This is not least justified by the need for competition, which is designed to ensure that one has two strong environments of competence that are built up against one another for the benefit of society. State power, in the opinion of the Right, is in the process of gaining a dominant position in the Norwegian market through direct and indirect ownership. During 2001, State power, through direct and indirect ownership, may have an estimated 60 pst influence. of Norwegian power generation. In the opinion of the Right, it is then right to assess whether we are in the process of achieving a development that goes beyond the purpose of the free power market, namely to secure electricity for customers at an optimal price. Norway was in line with the new Energy Act. One managed to do something that the EU is currently struggling with, precisely because one had many competing environments. Now, tonight, we are about to position ourselves in the difficult situation the EU is in. We get a competitive energy market by establishing for dominant actors. Following the examination of the Committee, it has emerged that both the Central Statistical Agency and the Competition Authority share this concern. I'm quoting Tor Arnt Johnsen from the SSB: ‘If you have a few producers, they will be able to manipulate the price more easily, and it is very difficult to identify what the price would actually have been if competition had worked.’ In Norway, a number of factors are now moving towards a high electricity price, as explained by the Government in its Landfill Communication on Hydropower and the Power Balance. Some of these factors are the result of a misguided policy, such as the high electricity charge and the new surcharge adopted before Easter, and today one is dealing with a matter which can further reinforce this trend. It is also the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that there are a sufficient number of competing producers, both in terms of price and competitive environments. As a paradox to the Government's announcement of power balance, Bill Schjelderup, adm. You. in Bergen Energi: «Today's filling-in is completely uninteresting in comparison with 16 billion to State power. It will have a long-term, permanent impact on price developments in Norway. There is no discussion.» Another paradox in relation to this Communication is that in the State Power case, the Government places emphasis on the Nordic market, while in the force balance case, the problems that one faces in relation to the power transfer capacity between the Nordic countries. This also brings the Competition Authority forward in relation to the case of Skiensfjorden’s power team and Vestfold’s power team. There's someone operating with a South Norwegian market. This whole case shows the dual role of the State when one is the sole owner of the largest actor, while at the same time being responsible for the interests of consumers and society. With this in mind, I would like to address the joint proposal of the Right and the Advance Party, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e334	The representative, Höie, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e339	Right-wing policy in the case of state-owned companies is well known. It hasn't even surprised me that you want a partial privatization of Statkraft. But what I don't understand is that this time you hide behind the Competition Authority and the danger of becoming too monopolistic. I asked in my post the question of a partial privatized State power that wants to make further purchases in Norway, would have a less dominant position than a full-time State power. I wish Bent Höie could explain this to me. So finally, competitive conditions. It is and must be such that once individual purchases have been made, competition supervision must enter into force and assess whether the purchases result in greater monopoly or not. It is the competition authorities that have to take care of this. But I wish that the representative Bent Höie could explain to me what is the difference between ‘a dominant role’ whether it’s an entire state company, or it’s a partial state company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e348	On that question I will answer that it is actually possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The right is clearly involved in the case in order to partly privatise the company. We think that's right, and that's – as Aud Blattmann says – no surprise for anyone. At the same time, we also see that the company is reaching a position that makes us get a good additional argument for this time too, which is also no surprise to Blattmann, to vote against adding State power to new capital. It's been the right position for a long time. This gives good additional arguments for that position. We who sit in this room actually also have a primary responsibility for consumers out there, who are getting reasonably tired of paying the high power price that is now developing. The government itself has shown that this development will continue if one continues this policy. Then there is a mistake now to make a grip, before one has thought through this situation, which further pushes up electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e355	The right in the vote has called for a partial privatisation of State power, and rejects with that the proposal on capital injection and extended loan and guarantee frameworks to the company. It's a position that doesn't surprise, and I want to show respect for it. There is a clear position, which the right quite rightly has been for relatively long. For the Christian People's Party, our position in this matter represents, in our opinion, a reasonable medium-term solution, where, on the one hand, we see the need to have a strong State power, and we want a strong State power, while at the same time placing restrictions on the purchasing opportunities the company should have. That is why our proposal also includes reduced transfers of a total of NOK 4 billion, which would clearly limit the size and extent of the dominant State power in the Norwegian market. What happens, however, is that developments in the power market, perhaps not least internationally, are going very fast. There are shifts in owner structures and aggregations over a low shoe, and in the meantime, Statkraft becomes more or less attached to the fence and observe a process that we ourselves do not have the opportunity to participate in at all. This will, of course, in the long term lead to consequences for the state situation, not least internationally. If the Right Line had a majority and the objective of sub-privatisation were to be the basis, it would be a process that took a long time, and in the meantime, time goes by, and the changes take place regardless of whether State power can be involved or not. Wouldn't it also be natural with Right's eyes that during this period, at least, State power was given some power in the form of capital to participate in and buy up a little, and not to come completely gradually into a market that goes so very fast towards larger mergers and privatisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e362	That's exactly the situation that the representative here describes, which makes it necessary to stop. Because if one shares the Right and, to some extent, the Left's concerns – a concern that, because I understand, the Christian People's Party also shares – that State power can have a too dominant role, it may be time to say no and stop and think about it. The whole purpose of a liberalised energy market in Norway was to have healthy competition, which on the one hand contributed to lower prices, and on the other hand prevented unprofitable investments from being made. If one continues a policy of giving State power the capital they want, one is about to position itself back again in the previous situation, and it doesn't want Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e367	The representative Bent Höie did not like to answer the question I asked him, and therefore I do it quite directly now: in a competitive situation – if it is the competition one is afraid of – what is the difference between buying up from a sub-privatized State power and an all-time state power?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e377	As I have tried to explain a couple of times, it is quite obvious that if State power had been a partially privatized company today, as a representative of the authorities, I had hoped that the Competition Authority had intervened to prevent them from getting a too dominant position. Now we are in a situation where we also have a different tool: the opportunity to stop a capital injection to prevent this development, and to give some time to get a conversion in this area as well. This situation has been described by Aud Blattmann himself in relation to the position on Statoil, which is the different roles of the state, and it is now time to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e383	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e386	Over time, there has been a restructuring of the power industry in Norway, and much of what we have seen in the wake of it has been positive. However, it is important to clarify the role of State power in such a restructuring process. I think it is good that an overall committee is behind the call for a separate case to the Stortingen to review the development of State power as a company and in the power industry for the rest. That State power has ambitions to be a leading Nordic energy company with peak competence in hydropower is well and good. But the increasingly dominant role of state power in the Norwegian market will, in our view, undermine the principles of free competition. This may also undermine the important principles of market deregulation on the basis of which the Energy Act was revised in the early 1990s. In our view, it is worrying that State power has acquired positions through purchase that give the entity significant influence both directly and indirectly. If all planned purchases are made, State power may, through direct and indirect ownership, be held with an influence above 60 pst. of Norwegian power generation in a short time. We will strongly warn against such a development towards a power monopoly, which could be the result of the capital injection we are dealing with today. This will clearly weaken competition in the market and, ultimately, consumers will have to pay the bill for this. With the last few days' forecasts of the evolution of electricity prices, it is clear that this is wrong to go. As if this isn't enough, it's clear that Statkraft will need an additional capital injection of DKK 8 billion in a few years to implement its plans. I have a great deal of understanding of Statkraft's desire and need for financial freedom. This can, however, be achieved in ways other than providing fresh money from the treasury. State power can bring money into the market. In my view, the government should therefore prepare a case of partial privatisation and stock market listing of State power as soon as possible so that they can thus obtain financial autonomy. I think it is quite incredible that on the same day that the Stortinget adopts a partial privatisation and stock exchange listing of Statoil, one goes the opposite way in this case. And in addition to spending 6 billion healthy tax dollars, as the majority will, we are at risk of increasing electricity prices to the consumer as a result of weakened competition. Of course, the party of progress will not be involved in this. We will vote against both the proposal to add new deposit capital of NOK 6 billion and the power to increase the loan and guarantee framework by up to NOK 10 billion. I would just like to end by recommending the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party on the partial privatisation and listing of State power, while recalling that the company per. today is the country's second largest network, and capital can also be acquired by realising this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e401	In particular, it is unproblematic that a company is wholly owned by the state. It is only when the State behaves as an incompetent owner that there is reason to be disturbed. Such an assessment is relevant to all state companies, and to a particular extent to key actors such as Statoil and Statkraft. Therefore, the Central Party will contribute to the serious nature of the state ownership rather than to conduct a debate on privatisation, as the Right and the Advance Party will at least partially agree. What interests should the Storting keep as owner of Statkraft? It's easy to answer. A mass collapse wants Statkraft to be a leading Nordic energy company with peak competence before hydropower. A solid base in Norway is an important platform for achieving such a goal. Moreover, Statkraft should be strongly involved in the management of public capital and in securing Norwegian public ownership. Behind this political leadership is a solid plural – the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, Left and SV. In order to carry out these tasks, Statkraft needs to be provided with both new inlay capital and increased loan and guarantee frameworks. There is also a solid number of large sizes. Even the Right Party and the Advance Party of my State Power need more capital – rightly it will be via sub-privatisation and stock market listing. On such a background, we might wonder that St.prp. No 51 has a weight boost. I read a difficult title in the Class Battle, where the transfer of money was referred to as a gift package for Statkraft. Newspaper, which is otherwise known to avoid using unprofessional headlines, made here an impression that, in my opinion, is wrong. As is known, there are large amounts of public capital and more and more are located abroad. Alternative locations are therefore most welcome, especially if they stimulate industrial and technological development. State power can channel public capital into the energy market, and in this way it is a useful and good instrument. Then we record some concern that State power can evolve to become the Right, the Progress Party and the Left as a real Statkraft monopoly. It is of course important that the market functions, that electricity prices are influenced by competition. But it's not in the cards at all that after getting their money, Statkraft will be able to maneuver itself into a monopoly situation. That's going to be stupid, the Stortinget or the Competition Authority. Desutan operates power producers all the time in a Nordic market, and soon in an even greater context, and no one can claim that Statkraft will become a giant in the new landscape. The centre party has been encouraging municipalities to maintain their power rights for all years. Local ownership is a good thing. The centre party has usually not gone into the broom to sell municipal ownership parts in power companies to get money for the municipal cash register. According to our ability, we have tried to donate money to municipalities in an ordinary way. This strategy is still up-to-date. But we register that local owners still come to the hall. Development has gained an amount that is really fast being referred to as the restructuring of Norwegian power supply. Strong foreign interests are positioned to ensure access to power generation as well. In such a situation, we should not sit with our hands in captivity. Statkraft should act actively to secure Norwegian public ownership. This will, of course, lead to the growth of the company, so that in a few years' time, State power can be put at 55 pst. of the Norwegian production capacity. The Ministry considers that the Competition Authority will assess the individual purchasers of Statekraft in the market. And I want to say that it is important to ensure that the purpose of the competition law is not challenged. The strong restructuring that is now taking place in the power supply sector is a challenge, not only for Statkraft, but also for regional energy companies. For example, Light Energy has ambitions to grow bigger, and the company is looking for partners abroad. We cannot ignore the fact that Statkraft and Luminous become competitors in specific cases. Equally, strengthening Statkraft will not contradict a desire for regional energy companies to grow and contribute to energy market shortages. The company has a different profile. State power has primary competence in hydropower production and wholesale trade. Other companies have a different starting point and are committed to developing the power grid, building other infrastructure, such as gas and telecommunications services, and offering different products and services to end-users. So the competition level against Statkraft is not as big as anyone wants it to be. Moreover, it is generally unthinkable — from a regional point of view — to define Statkraft as an opponent. The company is also an important partner for regional power companies, for example BKK. State power can count on support from the Storting to secure defined targets, not to pursue an aggressive buying-in policy along the lines drawn by the Storing. I would like to remind you once again of what I said in the introduction, that Statkraft needs active owners who take the consequences of the objectives defined for the company. The central party supports the Government's proposal to add more funds to the company. The proposal is in line with the policy adopted by the Bondevik Government. We also see the transaction as a good and interesting placement of public capital. It is a self-contained argument that Statkraft acquires a capital of around 40 p.m., as was the case at the time the company was established. This should be the basis for good development. A joint committee wants the Ministry to come back next year to the Stortinget with information so that the National Assembly is kept up to date with developments. That's a good sign. Finally, I would like to refer to the part of the setting that, in my view, is most interesting, because here we find a summary of important principles and conclusions that point forward. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV believe that it is the government and the leadership of the State that will decide on investments on a commercial basis. This majority think it is necessary to give Statkraft additional resources in order to meet the goals Size has drawn up. The majority point to the fact that the ownership structure of Statkraft and the repatriation and concession laws are to be determined. The majority point out that the Government’s purchasing policy is to follow the agreed guidelines. And then it says, ‘By adding State capital, substantial public ownership of Norwegian hydropower is facilitated in a situation where municipalities and county municipalities sell themselves out.’ Let's hope that the Norwegian people in the fall will make sure that this policy will also have a solid plurality behind it in the coming boom.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e436	The representative expressed enthusiasm for some comments that concession law and repatriation should remain firm. Now we see how long it's going to take. I think we have to be open that the changes are so big that here the changes are going to force themselves even in Norway. Otherwise, the representative took away that the $6 billion that is now to be spent on taxpayers' money is a gift to State Power. He stressed that there is good governance and the use of public funds. What is the reality is that State power is now going to buy out the municipalities, and the municipalities are getting more money that they can spend for other good purposes. It is not that the state, by investing in State power, invests in new activities, in new industrial activities, but it swaps state capital with municipal capital, or vice versa – municipal capital with state capital. I am surprised at the views of the Central Party on this matter. The Central Party has previously expressed scepticism for a line in which State Power was to be inflated in order for State Power to use its muscles in a Nordic and European market. The centre party has previously been subject to domestic competition. Now, with open eyes, the situation in which Statkraft is given the opportunity to gain market power, which the Competition Authority strongly warns against. At the same time, open eyes are also introduced into a situation where this market power, which State Power will acquire, will lead to increased prices, cf. both the Competition Authority and the SSB’s assessments. I would like to ask the representative whether he believes that the situation is different, or whether he accepts the premises that the SSB and the Competition Authority are now using.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e445	I am sure that if I were to discuss the situation of a private company with the representative Sanner, we would soon become a few about what a good ownership would be. I think in that case it would quickly become clear that when an enterprise defines a goal, it is important in the next run to put in tools to achieve that goal. That's what's the state power situation. We have here a company that is owned by the public, and then we have government and big business that has clearly defined the goal Statkraft is going to work towards. In the next round, there are questions about setting up financial resources to achieve these objectives. It is a position that each owner must have if the owner is to appear to be serious and take his job seriously, which is very important in such a situation. But it seems that this is a difficult point to take for the representative Sanner, because in this case we are talking about a public enterprise and not a private enterprise. There's a reason why the representative Sanner should reflect a little bit more closely, in my opinion. Then I register that the representative Sanner with skin and hair identifies himself with the heading of the class struggle that I pointed out, where it was said that these money that is being given to Statkraft is a gift package. I want to repeat that it is not a gift package. It's not about taxpayers' money, but it's a good money placement, the capitalisation of public funds in a power sector where there's a need for investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e452	There can be no doubt that John Dale is now using the taxpayers' money. 6 billion kroner are due today to the taxpayers' money to enable State power companies to buy land and beach around. What do taxpayers get back? Well, according to the Competition Authority and the SSB, higher price. Here we are inside a classic mix of roles. I agree with the representative John Dale that it is clear that an owner wants ambitions on behalf of his company. However, the State also has a different role, and that is to provide effective competition for the benefit of consumers. That is precisely why the State should also sell into State power, in order to reduce this role conflict between ownership roles and the regulatory role, on the one hand, and the regulatory role is important for consumers on the other. That is why I do not agree that we will soon agree that this would be a sensible strategy if it were a private enterprise, because the Right is as sceptical to private monopolies as what we are to public monopolies. That is why we are concerned that the role of ownership and control should be more distinguished. The State must regulate, the State must control the market. As far as possible, ownership should be private. Then we avoid the role conflict that the state is up against here – on the one hand, the ambitions of ownership and on the other hand the regulatory role, the issue of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e459	We're up here in a situation where we're talking about choosing between two options. The only thing to do is to follow the path of the Right, to privatize the company and raise the capital through the market. The second is to make the decision that we propose to be made today, simply to add the Statoil money via public budget. But in both cases, we will be ahead of companies that will meet exactly the same challenge vis-à-vis the competition rules. I want to repeat the point that the representative Aud Blattmann made in a previous line: the challenge will be exactly the same, either one model or the other. But in that situation, we must be able to rely on the proper functioning of the Competition Authority and the ability at any time to evaluate individual purchases in such a way that one can be sure that the competition law is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e464	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e467	I want to stay a little bit at the line change that was now between the Right and the Center Party. I have a certain understanding that the Right wants to fish a little bit in piped water, when you look at how the center part of today has kind of broken a little bit in different directions. When you also know that the Right is at the Beelar Course in relation to the Centre, I have a little bit of understanding that the Right now makes even more complex for the Centre, and they have received good support from the Left in this matter. I then understand that it is important to get that point out in this debate as well. However, I found that an over-inspectioner chooses a lot from the Right. But I understand that, too, because if you want to privatize Statkraft, it's clear that for some reason it's just a lot of horses to play on. This is the private person to run. For the Central Party, for the Workers' Party, for the SV – especially for the SV – and for the Christian People's Party, an important part of the negotiations in this matter was to establish that the public ownership is established. In plain text it says what is on page 2 of the setting: ‘This majority refers to the fact that the ownership structure of State power and the law of repatriation and concession are established.’ So there's a multiple that confirms this. It is clear that given the previous case, Statoil-saka, it is good to know that at least in this case the public ownership is sure. SV is committed to strengthening the public ownership. That's why it was absolutely necessary for us to be in a multiple and get this in as a plural comment. Otherwise, the case had hardly got a plurality today. Based on the fact that there is an indestructible resource we are talking about, it is important that it is the people's property, that it is not privatised and sold abroad, as I believe Right and the Progress Party actually stands for when it comes to the piece – perhaps also the Left, without me being entirely sure of it. There was one more thing that SV was concerned about in the negotiations. It was that we had to have a discussion about what we want with the ownership that we have in Statkraft. Therefore, SV is pleased that we have received a comment that one should have a review of the development of State power as an enterprise and of the power industry otherwise, in 2002. Then you can get a thorough discussion about how this has been done and how the road should continue. Bent Höie wondered why we should wait for Statkraft to come up with privatisation proposals. What the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have established is that one should not wait for it, for it will not come. That's what Stortinget now tells Statkraft. So when the evening post on April 20th this year speculates on this, and the director of Vareberg says that one should look for a lease with an exchange competence, we can say from the plurality that it is completely unnecessary. The ownership's stuck. It should be state ownership, and then we need competence for state governance of a state ownership. From the Left and the Christian People's Party there is a lot of talk about – and that is true of many parties – the importance of public ownership and regionally publicly owned companies with power of impact. Who disagreed with that? At least there was no SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party in their comments. The problem is that with the municipal economy that a majority of the municipalities in Stortinget provide, they come into a compulsion situation by having to raise income to make investments. And that's where, to my mind, it's only SV that has a grip that no other party follows up. Then they can say that they follow it when they decide the budget and the local economy, but I think if you ask the municipalities, they'll answer that it's not the reality. Local authorities lack money. There's something this plural should do. Therefore, SV suggests that one should be able to demand a minimum price for the hall, a price that is consistent with the expansion of new power. I think it's very reasonable, but SV is all about it. And when it comes to this issue with regard to regional strength, of which the Christian People's Party, the Left and others are busy, why will one not agree with a proposal to offer municipalities cheap loans, so that they can rely on regional strength by getting them capital and loans from the state? That would be the logic, but it doesn't follow the logic, but it doesn't follow the logic. Left and Christian People's Party up. And then this doesn't really hang out. Now SV in this case could have signed up and said no, we don't want to be on anything, we don't want to be on this extension of this loan, because we can't get through all of our suggestions. But we choose to be involved not least because of this with the guarantee that Statkraft will still be state owned. I still have to problematize this a little bit, and there's a lot going on at the center of my relationship with the environment. The center part is constantly on the track talking about important values, they say it is important to bet on the environment, and it is important to do something about climate problems. Yeah, that's totally agreeable. But when it comes to concrete things, one is not willing to give a signal of guidance or put leadership on state corporations. Then one will not associate with SV and will say that Statkraft will not invest in companies that are acting contrary to the Kyoto agreement or that will not phase out nuclear power. You won't be able to join it. So one doesn't want an active ownership with a goal, one will just let them operate as a regular raw capitalist. SV believes that when an operator has government money, whether it's in the oil fund or State power, as they are doing now, a lead should be put on the investments that make an actual world in the right direction – in this case in the environment sector. I note that when it concerns the centre party and this problem, one says yes, one would like to have a better environment, yes, one would like to do something in relation to the climate problems, yes, one is against nuclear power stations, but one must therefore invest in it in Europe. I have a problem understanding this, I think this is somewhat similar to double standards. As I said, SV is for a strong public ownership. We have nothing against strong public-owned regional actors and to facilitate it in our policies. With this I take up SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e506	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e512	It seems that the representative of Langeland believes that today's decision should stand as a wall around State power and secure them against privatisation. Then I would like to remind the representative of Langeland that the majority here also thought that there was a need for three oil environments in Norway, until the board of directors of Hydro thought otherwise. I would also like to remind the representative of Langeland that the majority of this House felt that a full-time state oil company was necessary, until the government of Statoil thought otherwise. And the reason the majority then turned around was that reality gained the majority. I don't have ambitions for reality to collect the representative Langeland, but I don't think it's long before Statkraft comes and asks to be part-privatized. At least they should do that after hearing the debate today. But now let's turn the problem a little bit upside down. What if Statkraft had been a private company that was getting the market position that they now have? Then, to put it graphically, Langeland had been lying above the ceiling in relation to protests on behalf of people who were concerned about market developments. Now he gives them a gift package and says: Keep up with that development! And that means that neither in this case is SV concerned with the conditions of ordinary people and the electricity bill of ordinary people, but rather concerned with the welfare of state companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e521	Yes, Bent Höie's reality can look dark, and it can look bright. Today, she obviously has a light over her head. At least his line gives an expression for it. But the reality of the Right I take with me a pinch of salt, and I also take with me a big pinch of salt the care of the consumer, the buyer of the power. So one might say that the Right is against all charges and against almost everything in trying to steer things in the right direction. That's exactly what you can do if you want to, in relation to state ownership and in relation to the governance that's in this room. One can actually adopt higher charges and lower charges. One can do so if one wishes. One can also, but it doesn't want Right, strengthen the public ownership locally, for example. by providing municipalities with an economy that they can survive. It won't Right. The right-hand side gives the municipalities the bad economy. The only thing that a single municipality can do to get money is sell its power plants. That's a good right-wing policy. Then one might say that makes the consumer feel better. Yes, it may sometimes do so, but overall, right-wing policies seem to feel the market forces. When the market goes up, the price goes up, and then the consumer has to pay. It is then in Right's society that the one with a lot of money can manage, while others who don't have the economy that Right's people have, it gets monthly worse and has to struggle to cope with everyday life. But the users who wear in everyday life are not particularly interesting for the Right, nor in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e528	SV is concerned that the centre parties will not be involved and provide environmental signals to guide Statkraft’s investment. I'm more concerned that SV gives Statkraft many billions that enable them to act contrary to the leaders that Langeland wants to lay down. The reality is that a company that has ambitions to expand also in the European market will have to deal with companies that produce both coal power, nuclear power and gas power. They have been given the tools they now have, among other things. with the help of SV. So there's a reason to ask if this is an illustration of the level of ambition SV has when they're going to relate to the Workers' Party's dream relationship in government, that is, that one should have the opportunity to say what you mean, so loyally agreeing with the Labour Party with obedient voices. State power is becoming totally dominant in Norway, and one does not hide the fact that it is a goal. It is part of a long-term strategy on which to base Norway on expansion in Europe. If one is to be able to intervene with major European players, either by purchase or by merger, there will be tens of billions of dollars. It is possible that SV wants to contribute $10 billion, but there will not be a majority in this room. It will be the opening of the privatisation that strong forces in Statkraft want. What happens is that state power throws one stage into its strategy, and SV will be remembered as a useful co-player. Back in the Norwegian market is one without other robust actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e535	I tried in my post to clarify what SV has achieved in negotiations with the Workers' Party. A central issue for SV, but not for Right Light or Left, is ownership issues. The fact that a person can secure and keep things in public ownership is a very central point for a socialist. It is true that if it was up to SV, one would also have adopted more control signal than one now gets. I take note that here we have to do a better job in the next round, to the cottage, if there were to be a current issue in relation to government negotiations, which Kvassheim had to deal with. I think that some of the weakness of Left's argument is that a strong regional company, but one does not want to help the municipalities get an economy to have such a company – that is, the Left's argument is hollow. There is actually an argument to attract foreign actors, such as a knowledge Light should do to get money. It's true that SV and left are two different parties. I thought that the left now position itself very much towards Petersen and the right. I hope that's what the voters see and take notice of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e544	The representative, Hallgeir Langeland, answered the question from Bent Höie about taking a long run. The question from Bent Höie was simply: on which side is SV? Are they on the consumer's side, or is it for the state company Statkraft that SV will now spend 6 billion of taxpayers' money? Because it's not like we have to grant 6 billion to make sure that the power companies are going out of public ownership. The reality is that 6 billion of taxpayers' money is spent on power companies going from municipal to state ownership. That's what's real. The alternative is not necessarily between public and private, but between municipal and state. What is therefore the reality is that, by spending 6 billion of taxpayers' money, the Swedish government increases market power. If that's the point, you should also say it. The question from Bent Höie about how SV would have handled the situation if it was a private company we had been facing here, was not answered either. Right here is a principle that applies to both public and private companies. We want competition, we want diversity, we want consumers. But I think that Bent Höie is right that if it had been a private company that was about to achieve the market power that Statkraft is about to have, then there would not have been a way of how this company would thin ordinary people. But when it's a state-owned company, you go into a situation of open eyes, a situation of competition supervision and the SSB warns against, a situation where the price to consumers will rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e551	Let me start by saying that I'm a bad jogger, but I'm a good team player – on football. And that's my starting point on this case as well. When it's possible to get a good result and win a fight over public ownership, I'd like to join that team. And so that's SV in this case. And then it gets a weird cut when Right asks which side SV is on – the users or Statkraft's side. Yes, it is possible for men to create contradictions! But who are the consumers? Who really is Statkraft? It's the Norwegian people who own Statkraft. Truers can also, through their position here, be involved in controlling that company for the benefit of consumers if he so wishes. But that's not what this is about. The interests of Right and Jan Tore Sanner are first and foremost – as in the past – to focus on a user consultant and consultant for $1 billion to privatize a state-owned company, that's to say that the stock market and the price go like an oil lightning, so that those who have axes get something again – that's right-wing policy! Then I thought that it would be sought to talk about who is SV thinking about – State power or the consumer – when one knows that what is closest to Right's heart, is the market and the stock speculator.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e561	The power market in Europe is changing altogether. It's going to be fewer and larger companies. Competition's getting tougher. The question is: is the energy nation Norway also going to have a company that can claim in this competition, or is it going to be left entirely to non-residents? Great parts of Kraft-Noreg are for sale. Norwegian municipalities want to exit the power industry. The question is: is there also to be a Norwegian company in the competition to buy these power plants, or is the Norwegian power market to be left to the large international, powerful energy giants? Changes to the European market will not stop because State power is not allowed to participate. The Norwegian power companies that are on sale today will also be on sale even if Statkraft does not make the economy buy them. In other words, it is not Statkraft’s financial situation that determines the development of cork in the Norwegian power market or in the European. The government wants a powerful public owned Norwegian power company in the increasing international competition. State power can help to ensure that we still have a significant public ownership in the power industry in Norway. The strategy to bet on Statkraft is not new. So I can make the previous government my words. In the State budget for 2000, it says: ‘Norway may face a period of increased restructuring in Norwegian power supply. State power should be able to contribute strongly to the management of public capital, ensure Norwegian public ownership and maintain hydropower competence. Furthermore, the commitments to the power-intensive industry provide sufficient strength to Statkraft.’ The Labour Party and SV support the previous Government that it was important to have a strong State force to meet the new situation in the power market. I must admit that I am surprised that some party that was behind the previous government, today does not stand behind the policy they themselves were in for. State power aims to strengthen its position in the market by focusing on nuclear activity, a process that started in 1996. State power has a strong position before the operation of hydroelectric power stations and the disposal of energy. In addition, the company has built up a great deal of experience and competence before wholesale by force. I mean that the strategy of state power is right in relation to the leader's position and the development of industry. With the rapid changes now taking place in the power industry, financial freedom of action is a key factor in competition. Statkraft's financial position means that the entity cannot make larger investments in many years unless its equity is strengthened and its loan frame increases. Although power prices have been low for many years, independent valuations show that Statkraft has had good returns. There is good reason to believe that the Government's proposal will help to increase the return and increase the value of the enterprise. Government expects to invest about 55 billion dollars over a seven-year period. Although the main strategy is that the purchase of generating capacity will primarily take place in Norway, purchases in other European countries are not unmistakable. Government has made significant investments in the Swedish company Sydkraft. Government wants primarily to buy manufacturing plants. On the other hand, municipal and county owners have largely sold ownership parts of vertically integrated companies, which include both production, networks and manufacturing. Net and end-user activity is outside Statkraft’s core business, and it will therefore be relevant for the company to re-evaluate its owner’s positions in network and final user business later. State power may enter a market part of Norway before production of about 55 pst. in a few years. Although this market share is significant, there will still be room for other Norwegian operators. In this context, I would like to point out the ongoing deregulation of power industries in Europe. If Statkraft implements its strategy, the entity’s market share in the Nordic region before production will be about 17-19 pst. in a few years. By comparison, Vattenfall has about 20 pst. of the production capacity of the Nordic market today. I have noticed that in the wake of this case there has been a discussion about the role of the Competition Authority. Let me therefore make it quite clear: the Competition Authority does not have the task of assessing whether the State that owns should give Statkraft more capital. The role of the competition authority is to assess concrete purchases in relation to the competition law. That is to say, supervision only has a task when Statkraft uses the capital it has been allocated. Competition supervision has not been overlooked in the work on this matter. In the proposition it is made quite clear that it is the Competition Authority’s task to intervene against corporate services if the supervision believes that the acquisition would lead to, or reinforce, a substantial restriction of competition in accordance with the competition law § 3-11. The failure of the Competition Surveillance Authority to give an ex ante opinion on the cases ensures that supervision can carry out an independent assessment when specific cases are brought, based on the situation at that time. It is not possible to carry out a reasonable assessment of this in advance, based on Statkraft's strategy description. Some have also claimed that a strengthened State force will lead to an increase in prices for final users. Let me remind you what controls the price to the consumers. The electricity bill that people pay consists of three parts: electricity price, rent and fees. The size of the fees will be determined in this hall. State power is to a very small extent involved in networking. The force price is determined by the ratio between supply and demand in the power market. If a company is to be able to influence prices, it must have market power. I have done my best to ensure that the Competition Authority has the task of ensuring that no operator is given market power. We have a common Nordic power market. Developments are moving towards a single European power market, where national borders are subordinated. In such a market, an operator will not be able to influence prices as long as the transmission capacity between countries is sufficient. I would like to stress that the Government has assessed, and joined, the main lines of Statkraft's strategy. The entity must have freedom within this master frame. It is the government of Statkraft's responsibility to ensure that the strategy is implemented in a commercially justified manner. The Governing Board is also responsible for reviewing the strategy if business conditions so require. When the market changes rapidly, it is particularly important that the owner prepares for the company and gives it the necessary freedom of action for the company to continue to develop. Finally, I would like to remind you that the contribution of capital is not a promise, but a money position. The alternative for the state is to place these money – through the oil fund – in foreign companies. I think it's right to use parts of the financial trade freedom Norway now has, to develop Norwegian companies and to value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e605	First, I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to an important joint remark in the committee setting, where a request from the Ministry ‘to return to the Grand Duchy during 2002 with a review of the development of State power as an enterprise and in the power industry for the rest’. It is very important, and then we can also know how this money placement has been managed, and what has been the impact on the Norwegian market. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that this is not a small chapter in a small budget proposition, but that it becomes a proper document that we can discuss properly, and which hopefully becomes a big message. I ask the Council of State to comment on this. Secondly, I would like to refer to a comitology by the majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party, where it says: ‘The majority therefore consider that focusing on Statkraft’s share of Norwegian production capacity is less relevant.’ This is the expression ‘less relevant’ that I would like to challenge the Council of States, because other parts of the Norwegian authorities, i.e. The Competition Authority – and we have been quoting them today – says that they fear that Statkraft is in the process of gaining control of such a significant proportion of production regulation that market power can be exercised in South Norway. Statistical Central Bureau also has representatives who have expressed similar concerns. And then my question to the Council of State is, Is the Council of State also concerned? Is it considered that a correct dosage has been found in relation to the capital injection to Statkraft, or does the Council of State, like its party traps in Stortinget, consider this to be a problem which is «less relevant»? That would be interesting. The Norwegian authorities then disagree with themselves, and I hope that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e617	First, when it comes to getting a review of State power, of course, I'm going to be part of it in my own way. I have to admit that I haven't made up any point of how best to do it, but I think it's natural that the Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss it on a broad basis. I want to do what I can to follow up the wish of the committee. So to the question of what are Norwegian authorities. Norwegian authorities are so often. Different authorities have different roles to play. When it comes to competition issues, competition authorities have very broad powers. They cannot only react, but they should react if market power arises. Therefore, if the Competition Authority believes that competition is a threat, the supervision should use the authority over which the Competition Authority operates to ensure that competition is still in place. So the question is whether I'm worried. Until that is the answer, no, because I am quite sure that the Norwegian power market is about to become a story. We're already part of a Nordic electricity exchange today. We know that there will be an expansion of line capacity, so bottlenecks disappear. So we're going in the direction of not just a Nordic, but a European power market, where prices are not set in Norway, but in this international market. And in this new market that we see the contours of, Statkraft will be a very small player, so the danger of market power I see as very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e638	In its contribution, the Council of State attaches great importance to the role of Competition Surveillance as an inspector of competition conditions in Norway. I also expect the Council of State to have great confidence in the Competition Authority's assessments of the market and competitive conditions. This case is based on a Nordic market. In its assessment of the acquisition in Vestfold Kraft and the municipal power company AS of Skiensfjorden, the Competition Authority states: ‘Competition supervision fears that Statkraft is in the process of gaining control of such a significant proportion of the manageable production that market power can be exercised in South Norway.’ It is then obvious that the Competition Authority does not operate with a Nordic market, as the Council of State does, but with a market in South Norway. The Chief Information Officer of the Competition Authority further states: ‘We believe that the concentration in the power market is already large enough. Even in the case of economies of scale, it is minimal to pick up.» My question to the Council of State is: Where have the Council of State taken up views and expert opinions that support the claim that the Competition Authority here is wrong and that one operates with a Nordic market? It is quite clear from the opinions delivered by several actors, including: Competition supervision and the Central Statistical Agency, that this case will lead to an increase in power prices for consumers in Norway. Governments have just also presented a case that points to other factors that increase power prices in Norway. Isn't the Council of State worried that the usual consumer is starting to pay too high a price for having it well and warm at home, which is absolutely necessary in a cold country like Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e655	I have to admit that I think there's a flaw in Right's logic in this case, because when you read the comments on Right, right's not a right opponent of Statkraft getting money to make purchases, but they think that they're going to get the money in the market. There will be no less concentration in the market for that reason. The truth is that if it had been our Right who had decided, we would have removed all the regulations in this area. The concession law had been removed. To put it another way: the right is doing everything in its power to enable the large international companies to come to Norway and buy up in the Norwegian power industry. And I have to admit that I have a hard time believing that these big international companies are looking at Norway because they want to take care of Norwegian consumers' interests, there are completely different arguments that make Norway an interesting market. However, it is clear that the right has too much faith in its own argument, and therefore it seems easier to argue for consumers’ interests than to argue for what they are in favour of, namely that the Norwegian power market should be fully and completely open to the large foreign giants. So the question is, do I trust the Competition Authority? Yes, I do. The Competition Authority has extensive powers. Competition supervision shall not only assess, but they shall, in fact, also take action if competition is threatened. This means that if any of the money currently being provided by Statkraft is used to make a purchase that the Competition Authority cannot be found to be in line with the Norwegian competition law, then the Competition Authority shall stop the purchase. But I keep going in the direction of a more and more Nordic and northern European market in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e666	In this case, we are invited by the Government to support a capital injection to State power of NOK 6 billion in addition to an increased loan and guarantee framework. So here we're going to use 6 billion healthy tax dollars, and then the Norwegian population is going to have to get electricity prices back as thanks for the help. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get That's how you can start wondering if we're living in a reverse country. Last week, a forecast was published claiming that we can risk doubling the current price already in the current year. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he takes seriously the prediction from the ICF and to the extent that others have come up with similar predictions? And will the government consider lowering the electricity charge to consumers to compensate for the large increases in the electricity price?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e673	It is obvious that there is someone who thinks they have found good arguments through the Competition Authority. But when it comes to the comments of the Progress Party in connection with this matter, they will not prevent State power from growing, but they will prevent the state from participating in that growth. And it's not like one here claims that it's called 'fresh tax dollars'. This is money that the state has, and that's going to be gunned down in every way into a company. So the question is, are they going to be shot into a Norwegian company if today it has a very good return on the capital that is shot in, and that after all will also have a very good return on these money in the future, or will one through the oil fund invest these money in foreign companies? That's what the discussion is about when it's about these money, because the money is going to be put into a company at all conditions. The question is whether they should also be used reasonably here in Norway. So the question is, do I believe in these predictions that are now made? I believe in the predictions I have presented for the Storting. The situation is serious, simply because over the last ten years – or so far over the years after the war – we have had some growth in consumption, but not the corresponding growth in production capacity. This means that we are in a tense situation. We have too little supply of power in Norway, we produce too little electricity. That's the problem. The prices we have now seen are a symptom. I don't think the spot market when it comes to electricity will be lower, or, to put it another way: I don't think there will be any more electricity available in Norway even if the government would reduce the charges in this area. On the contrary, this would probably lead to increased consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e683	The importance of the Competition Authority’s views in relation to the issue we are discussing today can certainly be discussed. But I want to ask the Council of State what is the background that the department has not incorporated into the matter that has been sent to Stortinget, a problematisation of Statkraft's position in the market. At the time of the creation of this document, the Ministry was aware that the Competition Authority was concerned that Statekraft is in the process of ‘ having control over such a significant share of the regular production that market power can be exercised in South Norway’. Does the Council of State see that this is information that could be of interest to the Storting? It is a letter to the Committee, with answers to questions, which mentions this opinion of the Competition Surveillance Authority, but which fails to include those elements that have been taken into account and given great importance to several parties today. What is the reason why a person failed to include the information that many have experienced as relatively important and partly alarming? Then I want to ask a little bit about the future. I had a prognosis on State power, that the strategy of State power is to become dominant — not strongly in Norway, as the central parties put it, but to become dominant in Norway — to use that force as a starting point for growth in the European market. Does the Council of State share that prognosis? And does the Council of State believe that such an expansion will take place by adding another $10 billion, or does he expect privatisation to make further expansion possible in the European market?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e692	I believe that the document I have sent over in connection with this matter provides a good basis for making decisions. The trends seen in both Norway and the Nordic and European markets have been thoroughly addressed. What we are dealing with today is not a fundamentally new matter. The representative Frafjord Johnson said earlier today that this was the first of a 'two-stage rocket'. That is not the case. This rocket is shot off a long time ago, so it's either second or third phase. It was the previous government that was in and out of the rocket. I would like to remind you that the strategy adopted by the Government of Statkraft, which underlies these decisions, was actively supported by the previous government. We're now doing our best to support the same strategy. Therefore, it surprises me a little bit that the Left is trying to argue so strongly against this that their own party was on while they were putting themselves with the government power. There is a lot of reference today to the Competition Authority. And it is right that the Competition Authority has considered specific issues. But in these assessments, they have not found the basis for putting their foot down, even if they have a legal basis for doing so. In fact, they have found that the investments that have been made to date have not led to concentrated market power. I want to page from the Competition Authority: ‘We have also not found any indications that the potential for the exercise of market power will increase in the future with today’s transmission capacity.’» We also need to include these assessments from the Competition Authority’s side, since they have been made such an important player in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e706	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e709	It's a special day at Stortinget today. In the morning meeting, we had quite a big and, in my opinion, a good debate on our great oil and gas resources, which we have been going to make since tonight's principal, very important, forward-looking decisions, and now we are dealing with the second important resource for the industrial nation of Norway that has brought us forward for decades, namely our hydropower resources. We are in many ways the owners of all these resources, both the two we dealt with in the morning meeting, and the one we are now dealing with in the evening meeting. We in Stortinget have previously said something about what we want as the owners of Statkraft, what we want to use Statkraft for. The majority have said yes to Statkraft's purpose paragraph, and then we have afterwards treated Statkraft in such a way that we have conducted a dividend policy – I myself have been involved in it – that has made Statkraft have very few muscles left in that direction. Now there is a big debate about how we want Statkraft to evolve in the Norwegian market as the situation is there. And what's the situation? It's almost as inconspicuous as it seems! There are a lot of companies that want to sell, want to merge, etc. – a very unbridled, unstructured ownership and production situation on the power market side. And then some people here make Statkraft like the big, ugly wolf! But there's no one here in the Stortinget who's ordering the municipalities or states to sell to Statkraft. No one's going to impose it on them. We have given State power the role we have, to meet the competition, to ensure Norwegian public ownership, to maintain our hydropower competence and to meet obligations towards the powerful industry. State power shall be an active player in the Norwegian market. That is what we have wanted, and we must stand by it. Then we talk about monopoly or not monopoly. We know that ownership is now largely in the hands of the public – approx. 80 pst. But there's a big problem in the counties and municipalities when they're going to go to their owners and ask about capital. Yes, think of the situation of the local government! Then the capital injection is set up against a nursing home etc. The public owners today are not strong enough to do the necessary clean-up on the power generation market that I think is absolutely necessary to meet the challenges in the future. And that's why it's important that we give Statkraft the muscles that we're going to do. The market must and must work. We also say no to a monopoly, for which both the Stortinget and the Competition Authority must be guardians. On the part of the Workers' Party, we want a public ownership, and we clearly say that our fall-back and concession laws should be firm. Then it's said that the power price is fluctuating. Yes, the power price fluctuates seriously and has recently done so. I would like to stress that the power price fluctuated before we decided to make these decisions today. What was the situation on the spot price market in 2000? Well, on average it was 10.3 cents per. kWh. In 2001, the average is about 20 cents per day. kWh. Then the representative says that we live in a ‘reverse country’. Yeah, maybe that's how to understand the Progress Party. You've been saying this for years. That's probably part of the basis for their existence. But I would like to stress that these power prices are a result that is influenced both by the intensity and temperature and not least by the variable costs in the surrounding producing countries of which we are part. We also have to take this inwards. I really believe that the representative Kvassheim will have problems saying that the power price will fall significantly if we stop the capital injection to Statkraft today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e726	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e740	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e754	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e768	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e782	Since there is no speaking time in this case, I intend to hold on for a while. No, I'm just going to take up a suggestion from SV in this case, which is on page 2 of the setting, because we think that it is now necessary to clean this up and put the responsibility where it belongs at home, simply at the riding position. We don't think it's necessary for the Storting to hold on to these sailors again, as one did when it came to the riding tax. I shall deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e791	This went faster than the President feared. Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e807	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e821	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e834	Then we are ready for voting on the issues on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e843	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Voksdal on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4-9, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 4-9, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «Statoil shall continue to be a wholly owned State company.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Statoil’s task shall be to investigate, extract, transport, market and sell petroleum and derived products, including the development of technologies for better and more environmentally friendly use and use of oil and gas, and the development of alternative renewable energy sources. Statoil shall contribute to sustainable development.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size empowers the Government to sell SAD shares corresponding to 20 pst. of the SEDØE values of the Norwegian State oil company a.s., Norwegian Hydro and others.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «A State pre-emptive right must be attached to the hall of parts of Troll, Worm Lange, Oseberg, Åsgard, Snow White and Kristin.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘SEE its dominant position on Norwegian pedestal shall be continued in future concession rounds.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a notice to the Storting on how to strengthen its role as authority and how petroleum law and other relevant legislation can safeguard its interests in a new oil policy situation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e894	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess various forms of organisation for a 10 billion petroleum research fund. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to quote and sub-privatise Statoil by: 15 pst. the shares are transferred to the Norwegian people so that each citizen is invited to subscribe for his share of the shares. Everyone who subscribes receives their holding free of charge. This includes all Norwegian citizens over the age of 18. 20 pst. of the shares in the company are offered for sale. Further sales of the country's holding, to a third, shall take place within a period of 10 years from the stock exchange introduction. The remaining shares of the State shall be transferred to the ordinary management of the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the future management of the SDEE portfolio to the Swedish Public Resources Fund with instructions to optimise the values of the shares.The Fund may, if it finds it economically advantageous, sell shares to the oil companies on the condition that the auction principle is applied.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e957	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they support paragraph 2. We're going to vote first over point 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e968	Øyvind Waksdal – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e971	I signaled in my post that the Progress Party supports points 3 and 6. We ask to vote against the remaining ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e976	The points 3 and 6 are added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e987	Then there is still voting over points 1, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1001	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, 2 and 3, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that: State power shall not invest in companies that are acting contrary to the Kyoto Agreement or that will not phase out nuclear power. If State power buys up power from municipalities, a minimum price, corresponding to the cost of building up new power, shall be paid. Municipalities wishing to strengthen their own energy companies by purchasing are offered favourable loan conditions by the authorities, except if they have a partial privatisation objective.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1034	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Cape. 1860 State enterprises under the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Item 90 Investment capital, granted by... kr 4000000’» [[New]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy may extend the Government’s loan and guarantee framework by up to 8 billion. kroner, from 42.5 billion. $50,5 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1061	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to prepare for a partial privatisation and listing of State Power.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1130	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 27 March 2001: ‘A national gas land-based gas centre is established. The centre shall be located on Haugaland.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1146	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting 27 March 2001: ‘The revenue of the EFF shall be allocated to the State budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1162	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 27 March 2001: ‘The Government is asked to come back with an assessment of who will be responsible for following up the national gas strategy in the context of the treatment of the notified natural gas wholesale notification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-2.ana.ud1107e1179	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that the principle of ‘pollutants pay’ is applied within Norwegian territorial waters – by the end of 2001 at the latest.’
