ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-08.ana.ud2442e25	From the Prime Minister's office there are the following letters to Stortinget, dated 5 October 2001: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 5 October 2001 at 5 p.m. 1100 is determined: City Council Jørgen Haarek Kosmo is granted, on application, by way of derogation from the office of a member of the King's Council with effect from 5 October 2001 at 2.30 p.m. 1200.From the same time, State Council Sylvia Kristin Brustad takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Labour and Administration as well as the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.She also assumes responsibility as Minister of Nordic Cooperation.” The President suggests that the referenced letter be attached to the meeting book – and see it as agreed. The former member of the Government, Jørgen Haarek Kosmo, has taken the seat of a representative. There are several permissive requests: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Arne Lyngstad from 8 October onwards and until further notice from the representative Steinar Bastesenon welfare leave from 8 October to 11 October from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo on welfare leave from 8 October to 19 October from the representatives Gunnar Halvorsen and Anne Helen Rui on leave from 8 October to 10 October – both to take part in the 47th session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ottawa, Canada These applications are proposed to be dealt with immediately and are accepted. - It's a note. From the first alternate of the Finnmark county, Kirsti Saxi, is requested to be released from office under the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo for his leave from 8 October to 14 October, for reasons of well-being. Following a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The application is processed immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period:For East-Agder County: Liv Marit MolandFor Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi and Charles MortensenFor Nordland County: Karl-Anton SwensenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Astri WesselFor Vestfold County: Dag Terje Andersen
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-08.ana.ud2442e112	Liv Marit Moland, Charles Mortensen, Karl-Anton Swensen, Astri Wessel and Dag Terje Andersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-08.ana.ud2442e141	The mandate committee shall present a unanimous opinion on the approval of the mandates to the EEAS and their alternates. The setting by the Preparatory Powers Committee is printed in Annex 1 to the amendment. The Authorisation Committee appointed by the new Majority shall refer to the opinion delivered by the preparatory committee and shall agree with its comments. On the points where there are particular comments by members of the preparatory committee, the members of the same parties in the final committee refer to the respective specific comments. The Liberal People's Party's list proposals were a problem for the county electorate in the election this year. As you know, there were two fractions that both claimed to have the exclusive right to represent this party. It was not until three days before the date on which the Heads of State or Government had to take a final decision on the list proposals that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs gave a general opinion that the county councils could use as guidance. The entire committee believes that in such a special situation the ministry should have issued an opinion at an earlier stage, without waiting for a formal complaint. The majority of the Committee – all except members of the Progress Party – considers that the actual basis for the decisions on the validity of the DLF list proposals is unclear and controversial, and that the legislation is incomplete and partly unclear. That is why, in the majority's view, it is understandable that the assessment of facts and rules can produce different results. The Act of Election adds the power to approve the draft list to the county electoral councils. The majority consider that there is insufficient basis for either actual or legal conclusion that the rulings of the county electoral councils are incorrect. Therefore, the majority do not consider that it is appropriate to raise objections to the decisions taken by the county electoral councils after the Ministry of Local Affairs had issued its opinion on 29 May this year. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party come to the conclusion, on a different basis, that the decisions of the Heads of State or Government were correct, with the exception of the decision of the Board of Governors of Troms to approve the draft list of the ‘Daniel Group’, entitled ‘The Liberal People’s Party’. The minority believe that this decision was incorrect, but when this list in Troms only received 23 votes, it is unlikely that the error has affected the outcome of the election. The entire committee says that the circumstances of the year's elections regarding the list publishers from the DLF show that there is a weakness in our system that complaints about county election boards' decisions will only be settled after the election. There are good reasons why such complaints are decided in sufficient time before the choice is made that the decisions of the Board of Appeal are enforced in the course of the election. In order to achieve this, changes are needed both in the electoral law and in Section 64 of the Constitution. The Committee recommends that the issue of such changes be considered. On the approval of the Southern List in West Agder, the Committee states that it finds arguments both in favour of and against the understanding of the law expressed by the Ministry in this matter. Following an overall assessment, the Committee has achieved the same results as the County Electoral Board and the Ministry. As the electoral law is not clear on this point, the Committee asks the Ministry to look into the issue during the revision of the electoral law under way. The Committee considers that it was correct for the Board of Governors of More and Romesdal to reject the list proposal from the Communist Party of Norway, because the two signatories were not members of the local authority at the end of the deadline for submission. However, the Committee doubts whether the three-state Joint District Organisation of this Party complies with the electoral law on localisation in each of the counties. The majority of the Committee – all except the member of the Coastal Party – finds that the district election board in Akershus made a mistake when it rejected the political party’s list proposal, because the electoral law cannot be assumed to exclude local authorities from being established by the party’s central government appointing the head of state and secretary. The entire Committee has concluded that this error is unlikely to have had an impact on the outcome of the election. The same majority of the Committee considers that the County Election Board in Westfold made a mistake as it did not approve a list proposal entitled ‘Cast and District Political Party’, but notes that this error is unlikely to have had an impact on the outcome of the elections. The Governing Board and the party leader of the Tversoptic Coastal and District Parties claim that the complaint subject of the registration of lots has made a mistake by accepting the registration of the party name of the Coastal Party and that at the election of the year there has been a confusion of the names of the parties of the Coastal Party and of the Tversopian Coastal and District Party. The Committee does not consider it appropriate to comment on the content of these requests, because it is necessary to understand that decisions concerning the registration of lots, taken by notary public in Oslo or by the subject of complaints, cannot be appealed to the Stortinget, nor is it a task for the Stortinget to assess whether such decisions are correct in relation to the rules governing the registration of lots, in the context of the testing of the representatives’ mandates. There have been some errors on the sets with ballots that are delivered to those who vote in advance. The Ministry has made a statement on this which has been included in the recommendation of the preparatory committee. The Committee notes that it is, of course, very regrettable that there are no ballots for one or more electoral lists in the ballot sets. Following the suspension of the preparatory committee, one complaint has been lodged about such a matter concerning a single selector. The complaint is mentioned in the suspension of the final mandate committee. It is likely that relatively few voters have been affected by such errors in the year’s selection. The Ministry is asked to do what it can to avoid such errors in later elections. Pre-voting begins eight to ten weeks before election day. The Committee points out that the election campaign has not yet started in July. Some of the voters who vote in advance want to vote again, which they do not now have the opportunity to vote. In the opinion of the Committee, there is little real need to vote in advance as long as it is before the election day and it considers that it is appropriate to consider further delaying the date of launch. The Electoral Committee has proposed that the vote be taken at the beginning of 10 or 15 August. The Committee points out that the Storting will address this issue in the examination of the new electoral law. Many municipalities will eventually remain without an actual post office. The Electoral Committee has proposed that the administrative centre of the municipalities become the legal place for the preliminary voting and that the Electoral Board may also decide that there are other places where the votes can be received. In principle, the Committee supports this proposal and adds that it is also important that pre-sampling rooms have an opening time to meet the needs of the voters. In this election, pre-voting has also taken place in a number of secondary schools. The Committee asks the Ministry to clarify whether this has had a positive effect on the participation of the first-time voters. The problem of'stampling' ballots has not yet been solved, although it appears to have been slightly smaller than in previous elections. The bonding of ballots may have the serious effect of approving and counting too many ballots in proportion to the number of voters who have cast their votes. The ministry is asked to continue working to solve this problem. The same applies to the fact that a number of voters have probably placed different ballots in the envelope without being aware of this, because the ballots are attached to one edge of the sets of ballots used in the prior polling. Various types of errors have been made, showing that voting directors and electoral officials need more thorough training on the rules in force and on how to keep the meeting book. The Committee asks the Ministry to assess whether more information is needed for immigrants on how choices are made in Norway. Several pre-sentations have been rejected because the voter was not in the poll, despite the fact that the original election card was at the polling stage. The Committee asks the Ministry to assess whether there are procedures that should be amended to avoid such cases. In the check counting of the ballots, several county election directors have found some significant errors in the enumeration of the electoral councils. The Committee stresses that time pressure should not compromise the consideration of the correct outcome of the census. A fax has been received today from Akershus County of the Environmental Party of the Greens on the complaint about Akershu County Election Board's handling of list proposals from this party. It is so recent that I have had no opportunity to confer with the members of the Committee, and consequently the Committee has not dealt with this fax, which came a short time ago. However, as far as I can see, no new information has been provided that is at the root of the suspension of the mandate committee as it already exists. I recommend the unanimous approval of the mandates by the Powers Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-08.ana.ud2442e192	No more people have asked for the word.
