ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e15	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Kari Manger, has taken the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e41	The choices that Stortinget has been invited to make today will determine the credibility of Norwegian defence for a long time to come. A radical change in defence is also necessary in our country, but the starting point must be the tasks that our defence is set to solve. This is what must be the design of the resources made available and not a predetermined budget figure. The long-term proposition presented would not have given the country a credible defence. The Central Party considers, first of all, that the proposed forces to defend their territory do not provide the country with sufficient security, nor do they provide an adequate basis for recruitment for international operations. For Norway, with its geographical location, sovereignty will remain a priority task. We need a solid defense to safeguard our interests and maintain the necessary skills. Our participation in international operations is correct and necessary, but concerns are that this budget should be given priority and go beyond a credible home defence. The nationally-directed defence of its own territory based on a duty of protection must form the basis for our new defence in order to give the necessary legitimacy and defence to the people. So, in terms of our defence, it must be that we: defends Norwegian territories and ensures vital social functions – forces committed in the proposition to defend their own territory were not proportionate to the tasks they were intended to perform to be able to receive allied assistance in a credible way to maintain sufficient well of strength for the withdrawal of personnel to international operations; It has also been a principle for the Central Party that it is the defence needs and not the territorial interests that are essential for the country to defend the funds made available. The Defence Budget shall no longer become a balancing item for other national challenges. The size of the population has largely failed to follow up its decisions by the necessary means. It is therefore regrettable that it has not been possible to achieve a wide-ranging defence policy settlement that, at an acceptable level, can ensure the long-term predictability of our national defence. The majority must now take our defence seriously and thereby ensure the country a modern and credible defence of its own territory that can also discharge the obligations that we as a nation have internationally. In the design of the future defence, the Central Party has given decisive attention to increased presence in the northern regions. This is a prerequisite for our ability to assert sovereignty, exercise of authority and control, especially in the sea areas. Norway’s autonomous capacity for crisis management in the north is an important contribution to stability in Europe. In the light of these problems and the fact that so much of the defense is located in North Norway, we are also going in to add the joint operating headquarters of Retan at Bodø. I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee has managed to reverse the Government's and Labour Party's proposal for a significant weakening of Home Affairs. On the other hand, I am not satisfied with the fact that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party do not agree with the remark to ask the Government to consider maintaining a commanding school in North Norway, in particular for the recruitment of the commanding profession from this part of the country. It is also very positive that an overall committee asks the Government to set up its own working party to carry out the tasks and functions of the mandatory and outsourced command in the future defence. It should be a matter of course that we should have a national defence concept based on protection and mobilization, where the reserve order is the main emphasis of all command in the war organization and in the departments of international peace operations. The representative Fossli said earlier today that the cost of establishing Bardufoss as a maritime helicopter base amounts to 600 million. kr. These figures are not correct, because they include investments to completely renovate Bardufoss airstation. However, the Defence Building Service’s total project investigation No. 2 from 1999 that Bardufoss must invest for 18 million. kr to establish itself as a maritime helicopter base. This is because Bardufoss essentially owns the necessary infrastructure. There is no investment cost by continuing the current operation of the coastguard helicopter quadron on Bardufoss. The cost mentioned earlier by the representative Grethe Fossli regarding Bardufoss air station today appears to be a mere manipulation of figures in an attempt to cover the fact that the transfer of the 337-square to the Sola entails an additional cost of 800 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e79	This is the most important reform that the Defence has undergone after the war. Technological developments have for a longer time made a major reform from quantity to quality now necessary. After the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989, the threat picture has changed dramatically, and the danger of the Great War does not seem imminent. On the other hand, serious regional conflicts are many and security policy dangerous. This is a reality that we have to take inwards. The defence must therefore switch to more mobile and international. Cooperation in NATO and transatlantic relations with the United States are still important for Norway and need to be strengthened. In addition, it is important for Norway not to be completely sidelined in the current EU defence cooperation. There will be a difficult balance for many European countries, and perhaps not least for non-EU NATO countries. EU enlargement is now developing the European Pillar through the ESDI and, in particular, through the ESDP, the European Security and Defence Policy, which is a milestone for the development of a common security and defence policy in Europe. I think it is now starting a long way towards a defence policy union. It is a cross-thinking that the neutral countries of Sweden and Finland are now governing the EU, with a Finnish general as head of the Military Committee and the Swedes with the entire political leadership of the EU. With regard to the concrete proposals to be put to the vote today, I would like to comment on a few points. The proposal for the merger of the Armed Forces Command and the Ministry of Defence does not appear to have a majority. That is very regrettable. Almost all NATO countries have a solution where the head of defence is the top military adviser in a civil-military integrated department. It's probably just Norway and Turkey that don't have it. This brings many benefits, not least in economic and resource terms. One does not have to have been in the defense system for a long time until one sees double investigations. And double work is done – first in the Defence Command, then in the Ministry of Defence, or back and forth. This takes time. I guess the defense can't boast good economic governance either. An Integrated Ministry of Defence with delegated economic governance frameworks would provide much better resource use and better strategic planning capability. Now, co-location will bring some benefits, not least in terms of the number of employees in the central staff, and that is what is needed. The Norwegian staff structure was well built by the Americans after the war and certainly fits the US over 200 000 million. residents. Home Security has great support in the people and is important for a positive overall view of Defence. It is therefore positive that everyone is now going in to maintain HV at today’s level, with 83 000 men and 18 home security districts, which are to be located where they are today. It's important to underline. The only exception is Agder HV 07. The HV district managers also become territorial leaders in peace, crisis and war, with their own planning element. This will strengthen Home Affairs. With regard to the establishment of a separate HV-school and competence centre, this has become somewhat different from the starting point of the staging proposition, where everything was collected at the Værnes, and the Evjemo was mentioned as an alternative. Now it seems that the HV training at Dombås combined with the previous command course at Torpo will continue. This I think makes sense. So what's going on at Værnes may be the command training, HV-USK, and the recruitment training of four to six months. It is precisely this education that has been at the Eujemo, and for which the Eujemo is tailor-made. In addition, the maintenance of the Eujemo would ensure a presence in the region and secure command recruitment from the South. I therefore disagree with our own attitude to place the Home Guard school centre between a noisy airstrip and a high fence on the Guards. And the worst thing about the Guards is the bad and unexplained shooting range. When Lexdal shootout field with 47 landowners is to be extended from its use approx. 30 days in the year to the contrary 365 days in the year, this can create huge problems. At the Eujemo you can walk out of the camp and be in the field of practice and shooting in five minutes. On Værnes there will be a military life on the bus. Yes, some have estimated that the loss in training is the difference of four and six months’ service. But unfortunately, there are no political parties that will add the Home Secretary's school centre to the Eujemo. In view of these realities, I believe that the decentralised structure should continue with commanding training at Dombås, HVUB training at Kongsvinger and recruitment training in several places. I would like to comment on this with the number of days of recruitment training in HV. There are three suggestions: it's four months, it's six months, and it's 100 days. I'm not going to say that I have a lot of experience, but I've been in Homeland for 30 years, and I've been the district manager of Homeland Protection, like my colleague who's head of the Defence Committee, so we can have a debate on it. But my starting point is that duty time has very little to do with the matter. The important thing is to get motivated soldiers in Homeland. I have received recruits with three months of education, recruits with six months of education, and recruits with 18 months of education. I mean it has to do with the motivation of the soldiers, and it has to do with the task of putting them to when they get into the five-day ministry. It is equally important that the HV area and the command in the HV area have the basis to give them motivation to do a good service in those days. I think that four months is enough to be good home-defence soldiers. I remind you that the Defence Policy Selection, which was a wide-ranging selection, went for three or four months, which were the alternatives. I think this has gotten a little bit too large dimensions, but leave it alone. I will not comment on either MTB or divisional music or DKSV, which is being closed, i.e. District Command South and Westland is being closed. Marvika is shutting down, and in Kjevik there are changes. This will be commented on by others. I just want to say that the South will be heavily affected and militaryly severely weakened. Now that this case is at the end of the way, it has been a long and comprehensive process. It started with FS 2000, Defence Policy Selection, and then we got St.prp. No 45. I feel there are many who have taken heavy roofs. It hasn't been easy to tell people that what we're doing is at the best of the defense and thus at the best of the country. I've heard a lot about April 9th. I've heard that 'they're raging the defense'. I deeply disagree with that. I think it is right for me to say that I think the head of defence has been rigged in this conversion process, which has probably not been easy for 24 000 employees, who are the ones most affected by the conversion. With the exception of some localisation decisions, I am pleased with what we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e105	There are two starting points for this matter that Stortinget has to deal with today, and which has been the starting point for the processes that have now gone over a long time in various defence committees. One is to take the new threat picture really inward and say that the cold war is over. What's the real enemy image now, and what's going to be our most important defense perspective? This is something that SV has been busy about for a number of years. In the last Commission on Defence, many of the perspectives that are here today from the Government were inside. Let me take some of the things that worry SV the most. We have a situation where the main threat from the Russians is not that you can bring heavy divisions across the border to Norway, but the major environmental problems in Kola. The most important question in relation to Russia is that we have a border between two nations where the difference in living standards is greatest in the world, in our northern regions. Our starting point is that if you're going to be afraid of the Russians, you have to be afraid of the Russians for the right reason. Then it is the environmental issues and the gap in living standards that are the main challenges. Point two: Norway has a huge responsibility in the world context. We have a territory equal to 30 pst. of the whole of Europe off our coast, which is one of the world's most important food containers. We've managed proteins that the world's population needs. We manage sea areas where fish are one of the major challenges to meet. It is a global responsibility we have. We're doing it on behalf of the world community. It is one of the major challenges Norway faces in defence policy. What's crazy is that while some parties in the Storing are sitting and dreaming about what it was like before the Cold War ended, it's not possible to get a majority to strengthen the Coast Guard, for example. While fish fraud is raging, you have to cut off the Coast Guard activity. It's going backwards into the future. We think that the workers' party government had the intention of correcting the enemy image and the threat situation, so it began to get in line with what was the actual situation. In addition to resources and the environment, we have the security problems surrounding oil installations and other issues related to Norway’s vulnerability. But what has happened in meeting with the Storting? I have to say I am amazed at the middle parties. Here a defence policy has been pursued on the basis of regional policy considerations and on the basis of one overall objective, namely that at least half of young Norwegian men must be under the protection obligation. Then you've traveled the country and the beach around. You started in South Norway, and when you came up a little bit in the North Tronde Team, it seemed as if the travel business stopped, because then you had apparently promised away so much that there was no more money to promise away. Defence policy cannot be pursued in this way in 2001. Nor can it be said that more than half of the young Norwegian men are supposed to be in and bang on some guns because it is so important for the Defense. If you do not have a meaningful duty of protection, it is a very great threat to the defence will. Then we have to find a different content in the obligation to protect, which is about the threat we actually face. What matters to the Government, but which has had a sad fate in the Storting, is the Government's ambition to get the plans that the Defense has, and the budgets they're actually going to operate in, to link them fairly. But what's going to be the result of today's treatment is that this gap will still be there, and that situation is going to continue forward. There will be no consistency between the plans in the defence and the budgets actually adopted. Here I am also amazed at the centre parties. Do you really mean in the center parties that you're going to spend 29 billion dollars every year in defense in the old Defense? Yesterday, when we debated high school, there wasn't one penny to get. It won't last. It's not going to keep the center either. Therefore, Norwegian defence will live on illusions in the future, if no one takes the point – as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e128	The post I'm going to make now, is probably pretty much like what Kristin Halvorsen just held, because I think she has a very right starting point. There's two reasons why we're here now. One is that for many years the Norwegian defence has been rustling and evolving, not in relation to the political situation we are facing, not in relation to the security needs we have, but in relation to the fact that old structures have been continued. It is enough that the rifle soldiers in Norway will be very much in need of international peace operations. However, in the case of a timely defence of the Norwegian community itself, within all realistic calculations, it has been a long time since the Gulf War. It is – if not perceived as irreverent – also long since 9 April, at least since 1940. Probably it's technology, management, information, intelligence and communication, internally and with allies, which is going to be the most important possibilities we have to defend Norwegian territory. Then it is, I think, a little strange that within the framework that everyone in this debate says is scarce, when you think you have some more means at your disposal, priority is given to the creation of new brigades in addition to the Government's proposals. I'm far from sure that can be the answer to the challenges we're facing. The second main point is that Norway has not lacked defence plans. We've had a lot of extensive investigations on the defense. What has been the problem is that in the annual budgets – and it is in the annual budgets that this is decided – we have not been able to meet the framework of the plans we have set. These are exercises how many of us are guilty. These are exercises in which governments' budget proposals, measured against many other and important tasks, have not been able to meet the limits set in advance. It has been largely through budgetary compromises in the UK, in order to ensure a majority of the budgets as a whole, nor has it been possible to meet the defence framework that has been at the forefront of the various representatives and parties. It's a development and a situation we have to take inwards. The greatest security for our security and the greatest security for our military defence must therefore be to bring as much realism as possible into both the defence structures we set up, and into the defence frameworks we want to live by. Then, in the political debate, one can take into account that different parties have different levels of ambition and probably also within their overall economic priorities, within the economy we all depend on, different approaches to this. But I would especially warn against that idea of thinking that one might thin out more defense out of uncertain calculations. At my best – and here I would like to be corrected, if there is a real basis for this – not least the arrangements made by the middle parties for the future defence of such uncertainty. We all know, then, that the uncertainty will arise in the individual and annual budgetary procedures. But a more expansive arrangement under more uncertain financial frameworks hardly serves security, and at least not the defense. That's why it's probably possible to meet on defence frameworks that are slightly above what the government has proposed. The question is whether the realistic premise for reaching such a final figure is something that all parties can stand for in the budgetary proceedings we are going to have in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e145	The Christian People's Party will have a defence that gives us security so that we can defend ourselves against military attacks and various other threats to allied aid can be expected from major threats and attacks. We believe that such a defence is not adequately provided by the Labour Party Government in St.prp. No 45. Our coasts and our seas, with the resources we have over there, are extremely important to protect and defend. The marine defense wasn't given the space in the defense as a broad majority here in the hall now thinks it should have. It is quite strange that the government proposed to lay down all the coastal forts, and would not prioritize MTBs, neither the continuation of the Hauk class to an adequate degree nor the construction and operation of vessels in the new Shield class. How would we defend ourselves if we were not able to deal with more than what the Government has proposed, and the reduction in the number of ships that would then be the result? In the past, we had a fleet of about a hundred vessels. Today we have approx. 50, and with the government's proposal we would get into a military fleet of about. 20 vessels. It may not be sufficient. The missile torpedo boats are once again in place as a structural element in the Maritime Defence. We're going in to build a total of six MTBs of the Skjold class. FO's spokesperson, Grandhagen, said to the evening post yesterday that he was surprised at the strong reinforcement of the Maritime Defence Agency that the Stortinget is now in favour of. He shouldn't be. Here, the Storting is taking far more seriously than the Government's consequences of the threats we can face because of our long-range coast, our vast sea areas and the resources we're going to take care of there. I am very, very fond of MTB construction on behalf of Mandal, but the most important thing for the Christian People's Party in this context is that, as we see it, it is a great need for a vessel and weapons of the Shield class. Just these boats can give us a quick presence and the safety that lies in it. The central parties want to strengthen military presence in the north. MTBs will be a very good element here. The centre batches also ensure the maintenance of the coastal artillery facilities so that they can be upgraded and re-used if necessary. Here, several billion dollars have been invested in the last few years. Of course, someone did because you thought they had a defensive value. We still believe that. It is necessary to point out that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left together have also wanted to expand coastal hunting training and establish a coaster South training at Karljohansvern, Horten. Education should focus on the challenges of the coastal and maritime environment, such as oil installations, pipelines, land installations and transport. Our proposal means that maritime defence will be strengthened by: 14 Hauk-class missile torpedo boats are to be continued with new MTB class with 6 vessels phased in and gradually replace the Hauk-class KNM «Tyre» 9 coastal forts and 6 underwater facilities are to be maintained in mobilization status 3 land-going vessels, with one of them operating in operation This feels that the centre is necessary for a nation like Norway with our location and resources. We are pleased that most of this is now a broad consensus in Stortinget, although the Government wanted a lot less investment in the Maritime Defense. So over to something completely different. It is incomprehensible to me that the Stortinget today seems to be laying down at least two of the Defence Music Corps – at least until the proposals were on the table this morning. The centre parties want to maintain all seven corps currently in operation. Hardly any of the defence services can create an engagement and ignite such a glow as just corps music. That such commitment can also be a major motivation to create and maintain a willingness to defend the people, I am convinced. This is about the defence being visible and obedient, and inspiring engagement. Here, dear big ones, we have to see the value of moving the corps forward. The Christian People's Party and the Centre Parties have proposed that the Corps be able to be transferred to the Ministry of Culture's budget in the long term and that cooperation with the county municipalities be assessed. The music tradition and the musical value, for example: The divisional music in Kristiansand has for the whole of South Africa, it is almost incredible that the majority will not see the value of and protect about. The proposition states – in relation to the five remaining corps: ‘In this way, the country will be generally well covered with music services.’ It's sad to say, but it blends smoothly into the sequence of the cuts that take place in the South. At this point, I hope that the majority of the population will vote to maintain all seven corps, or at least support proposals to transfer the budgetary responsibilities of the decommissioned corps from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Culture's budget. This is in the same spirit as what we have written in the position, and as it now looks, it only applies to the budgetary responsibility of two corps. We will vote in favour of proposals today that lead to the preservation of the corps, and I sincerely hope that the majority is in favour of it. This is a joyful twist from the Workers' Party's side all the way at the bottom of this discussion about the music orps. It is impossible to blow up the Ministry of Culture's budget to assume responsibility for the two corps for which the majority does not see the defence needs. Christian People's Party and Center will primarily continue all seven corps. The central parts therefore propose in the setting what I have previously referred to. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the Eujemo being established. The Centre Parties and the Right together promote proposals that the Eujemo be maintained with the training of soldiers to His Majesty the King's Guard. In addition, the centre has wanted to use the Eujemo for hunting training, so that one would in the long run use the capacity of the camp. In addition, in the form of a note, we have also opened up the possibility of using the camp for home security education when, with increased education, there will be a greater need for places to train people for home security. We're not doing this just to fulfill old promises. No one has yet met the fact that Evjemo is the country’s most food-efficient educational garrison, and it has excellent shooting fields. It is therefore incomprehensible that this particular camp is chosen away at a time when savings are one of the main reasons for conversion. The main point of appeal for us, however, is that the Great Britain now chooses to let the South West be completely without a country-military presence. What it may mean in the future in terms of both defence and preparedness, I fear the majority does not see. That the Government of St. Prp. No 45 have completely failed to mention both the place of women in defence and the responsibility of defence for a good family policy for their own, is alarming. I am pleased that a whole committee is in favour of pointing out that the defence must ensure that family considerations are taken seriously, especially during the transition period you are now entering. It is also important that the transition is not a setback for the women’s policy of defence in its action plans. The Christian People’s Party also wants a third category of service to be investigated. We are facing an expanded threat picture, which can force different needs for services. Furthermore, the treatment of the Vulnerability Committee may lead to the need for many and different ways of solving emergency tasks. This, together with the service of relief organisations and civil humanitarian missions, can be the basis for a third category of service and a different form of military protection and community service than we have today. Finally, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have been fully impressed by our proposals for a new structure for the Defence. It is now important that the conversion takes place as quickly as possible, but at a reasonable pace, so that we get the more effective Defence as all parties wish. I have some time left. I want to say a little to Kristin Halvorsen from SV, who talked about that we would definitely have half of the youth schools into meaningful service. We've said that we want this third category of service, and I thought it was something that might be in a spirit like SV would like, that everyone is responsible for each other, that we're working out a sense of responsibility, that we're in and we're in the community where it's needed. I may be able to come back with a little more about it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e202	The size did not achieve what many had hoped for, namely a wide-ranging defence policy settlement. Although the final product delivered today has become far better than the Government’s proposal, today’s treatment of the long-term proposition is characterised by having many common features with the former so-called long-term messages. The hope this time has been to avoid today’s long-term proposition having the same fate as the previous long-term messages. The wish list went as well as one way, while the rate of allocation went the wrong way. The right has fought hard to get a prioritized war structure in place. We are very pleased that the Navy has been given a far higher priority than planned. Right will actively follow up the renewal need for fighter aircraft and other investments that need to be made in order to maintain the necessary equipment integrity. This is something that defence and defence friends should be able to rely on. In the economic field, the government party and center have not chosen to follow us. That is why I am very afraid that in a few years' time we will again experience situations where we can figuratively sign up with a new car, boat or plane for that matter, but where the economy does not even allow fuelling. What needs to be solved by tasks and investments within and outside the framework has also been pushed into the so-called grey zone. Although both the Government and the Defence Chief denies it, I am very afraid that both the Defence Chief and the Government are adding up to some kind of line shift in Norwegian defence policy. Norway should, of course, carry out its international obligations, but it should not be left to the impression that objectives and attention to the international missions and operations have a greater field of vision and attractiveness than the attention the north regions should and should have. This does not apply only to the question of the location of the main common command. Military and security policy are nothing to suggest a reduction in national or allied attention in the gigantic areas of the north where we are set to exercise sovereignty. Presence and presence in these areas should have a clear priority from the Norwegian side. You can't just make that clear anymore. It is in these areas that we, on behalf of the international community, can do the most sensible and meaningful job, namely to create stability and tranquillity. Whether this is the Chief of Defense's first priority seems to be very uncertain today. We get daily examples of Russia stepping up its use of language in relation to Norwegian policy and activity in the Barents Sea, in the protection zones and in the case of Norwegian swallowing policy. We know from the Russian side that the North Fleet has the highest priority. Time and again, we have seen examples of the importance of dealing with incidents and conflicts in the north at a level and with methods that have proved appropriate so far. This is where we are most likely to find the basis and potential of our future financial resources. This is where we have the greatest military threat. This is where we have the greatest environmental and pollution threat, and this is where the so-called resource crisis threatens. It's in this area that we find one of the world's greatest prosperity divides. Therefore, it would be pointless for Norway to step down military and political attention to these areas, and it is therefore more than odd that the Defence Manager chooses to move even more senior officers southwards, with the result that there is currently more than 85 pst. by the officers with the rank of Colonel or higher south of the Sognefjord. High-ranking officers are moving south, and the proportion is now at an historically high level. If we also look at this relationship with the Chief of Defence's continuing efforts to further reduce Retan's function and status, I take it for granted that it should not be down in the system as the most reasonable basis for interpretation when the proposition and the Minister of Defence today state that Retan should not be closed, that Retan, as the Council of State says, should be continued mainly as a national crisis command for the northern regions, and that Retan should mainly continue the tasks as today. I ask the Council of State to give the Storting a confirmation that I have interpreted the proposition and the Council of State correctly. Such confirmation will remove part of the head of defence's misappropriation around the future status of Reitan. At the end of the day, I would like to say that I think that both government and big business should be much more closely related to the unanimous attitude of the Gade Committee, such as, among other things, concluded with Reitan as the natural national future headquarters, and as the ‘crush’ of the Defence Manager’s Grinden Committee, which the Defence Manager has used as his anchorage. It is on this basis that I have allowed myself to talk about the north and the need to choose Retan as the new national joint operating headquarters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e217	The work of renewing, restructuring and streamlining defence has been a continuous process throughout the 1990s and continues into this decade. Many communities where the defence has a significant role have lived in great uncertainty about what the future will bring. Therefore, today’s treatment and decisions will provide the necessary clarifications, to the delight of some and the sadness of others. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that change and renewal must be a continuous process, so that the country has a timely, modern and effective defence at all times. And we must have a defense that can operate within the financial framework set by Stortinget. There must be consistency between the tasks that we impose on the defence and the financial framework that we are willing to give them. Many of us have experienced significant progress in recent days from our respective parts of the country. In Northern Norway, the presence of defence has been crucial for the existence of some communities. The widespread presence of defence in the north has been directly linked to the security policy situation and the threat picture after World War II. Today this situation has changed, the threat picture is no longer a Russian invasion through Finnmark. Nevertheless, as a nation, we have significant interests to care for in our northern regions. These are national interests. It concerns the northern part of the country, it concerns sea areas six to seven times larger than mainland Norway, and it concerns resource management in the north with fisheries, oil and gas. It is about unexplained border adjustments, and it is about the protection zone around Svalbard, which is currently only approved by Canada and Finland. It is also a fact that, as a nation, we use considerable resources to convince our alliance partners of the importance of NATO’s presence in Norway and in the North. It is with this in mind that the Nordland Workers' Party adopted and has worked actively to locate the Joint Operational Headquarters at Reitan near Bodø. It is therefore a paradox that while we are telling our allies the importance of our northern regions, we are locating the national command southwards to Jåttå at Stavanger. However, it is my sincere opinion that despite the fact that the Workers' Party is going in to add the Joint Operational Headquarters to Jåttå and Stavanger, the design of the new Landsparts' Command Nord shows as a national crisis management command that our arguments and recordings are well preserved. The Country Part Command will be the National Crisis Management Command for the Northern Areas. This means that the Regional Part Command shall have the capacity to keep a continuous record of the situation — including, and in particular, in the northern sea areas and in the associated airspace. The Regional Part Command shall also have the capacity to conduct operations with assigned forces for a limited period of time. Although the Regional Part Command is initially a country command, it should nevertheless be staffed with competence from the other defence sectors. If we see the National Part Command as a crisis management command in connection with the follow-up to the Vulnerability Committee, Reitan at Bodø will be a centre for preparedness, rescue and surveillance. As indicated in the setting, the NATO Air Operation Centre will be continued on Retan. Overall, the northern part of the country is well out of the completely necessary conversions adopted today. The defence activity in Andøy Municipality continues with the 333-square-dron flight station and the Orion flights. The fact that the Armed Forces' payroll administration is added to Harstad, and that the Air Force's flight school is being moved to Bardufoss, is very good. I would also like to show that both the coastguard base at Sortland and Ramsund War Station are continuing. In addition, when the Heimevater remains as today, it means that the presence of the defence in large parts of the Nordic region is also taken care of. I say this because once the disappointment that the Joint Operational Headquarters did not come to Reitan has settled, we shall be glad that the absolutely necessary changes in the Defence have many positive aspects for the northern part of the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e232	You can only agree with the introduction to the setting: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis’.‘The size of the defence is out of proportion to the resources it is provided and the establishment of the defence is not suitable for the future’.» Let me start with the management of the defense. The setting aims at a slimmer and less top-heavy defense. It is now proposed to take action in relation to this which should have been done many years ago. Many of the elements have been proposed in the past, but resistance, not least within the defence's own ranks, has made it difficult to implement. This time it just has to succeed. It has now gone so far that even the defence’s own employees see the need to take action. It is, in particular, the management and command apparatus of the defence that appears to be far too extensive and resource-intensive in relation to the rest of the defence. The reduction must therefore primarily be in the top management of the defence, and it must be much more extensive than in the defence. The Committee also refers to the Inn. S. No 150 for 1992-93, cf. St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93, where a cut was imposed in the management apparatus of 25 p.m. The Committee notes that this objective has not been achieved. The Committee therefore considers it essential that reductions be made, as it is called, at the most appropriate pace. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right also consider that the net reduction in the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Command of the Defence must be at least 40 pst. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that the over-command of the defence is being put down in its present form and that the new defence management is being organised in such a way as to enhance the ability of strategic planning and management, and that the overall management of the defence becomes a primary task. It is assumed that tasks, authority and resources are delegated to a greater extent than at present to the lower level of the organisation. So some words about Air Force Air Command and Control Structure. There was considerable awareness, and rightly so, when it was proposed in the proposal to shut down the Air Force stations of Gråkalden and Mågerø, while concentrating the operations in South Norway on the Air Force station Kongswinger. Even more surprised were you when you saw some of the reasons that had been used. From the proposition, it was found that the alternatives Grayvallen and Mågerø should have an allegedly less positive present value of 55-70 million. kr. It was soon made clear that these figures had to be subjected to further quality assurance, inter alia. because new information had come to light on mountain installations. In response to the Committee, the Ministry must therefore recognise that it is suddenly talking about a positive present value of 10 million. kr in favour of Mågerø in relation to Kongsvinger. In spite of this, however, the Government maintains its view that Kongswinger should be chosen because, as it says, under similar circumstances, it wishes to focus on regional policy considerations. I am pleased that the Workers' Party's big group came out of the mountain facilities and saw the light on this matter, so that today we see a majority in the committee position in favour of Mågerø, the cheapest and best option. Never before have the mountain sweat rule that there is no shame in turning, had a greater relevance than in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e258	Let me first of all be allowed to commend the case rapporteur, who, in my opinion, has done an excellent job with this setting. In my opinion, we have also come up with a very good attitude. Of course, there are things that I am sorry about here, and that is what I intend to come back to later. The background for the option is St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001, which is based again on the 2000 Defence Study and the investigation by the Defence Policy Committee. These documents cover the fact that today's defences are in deep crisis. The documents set out a comprehensive and necessary conversion of defence in the coming period. Defence needs to become more modern and flexible, and better adapted to future security policy challenges. Today, we are facing a broader and more complex risk picture. The challenges and potential threats are more diffuse than before. The situation is characterised by moving transitions between national and international, and between peace, crisis and war. Increasing interdependence affects the relationship between countries as well as parts of the world. This helps to clarify the distinctions between national and international security. So, our military involvement in the Balkans is a kind of forward-looking defence of Norway. If the situation in the former Yugoslavia had come out of control and created serious contradictions between Russia and the Western powers, Norway would probably be among the countries in Europe that would mark it first and most directly. These include: these security policy framework conditions that must underpin the device of our future defence. With regard to the size of the structure, even though some parties do not seem to take this inward, our financial capacity has to be taken into account. The quality of the strengths we have, and sufficient flexibility, mobility and accessibility are, within certain frameworks, more important than the total volume. This is the basis for today's setting. We need to take a thorough and comprehensive approach to modernising and transforming the Norwegian defence after the end of the Cold War. The intention is not to reduce the defence budgets, on the contrary, the structure to which it is put in the vote will lead to a large extension of the budgetary framework, which would also have been the case with the Government's original proposal. We must create a new and better defence, which alone, in terms of purely national tasks, and, moreover, together with our NATO allies, can deal with tomorrow's challenges. NATO is and remains the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy. There's nothing here that's changed. Today's defence is largely planned in response to yesterday's threat of a massive attack on Norway. We now need to put in the resources where today's and the future needs depend on it. Nationally, we must secure Norwegian borders, enforce our sovereignty, exercise authority, avert limited attacks and terrorism and, together with our allies, be ready to face major threats to Norwegian security. Internationally, we must contribute to the alliance's efforts for security in Europe and to the UN's efforts for international peace and stability in general. At the same time, we must create a defence where resources are used more efficiently. Today, we spend huge sums on the operation of an excessive peace organization, while we all too often see that aircraft are put on the ground, that ships are added to berth, and that we have to clear the emergency stores. In my view, the attitude puts forward a good approach to what the defence should have in the future, given the security policy, military technology and economic framework to which we have to deal. So over to the more concrete results of the conversion, the localization issues. One of the reasons why the defence is in today's situation is among other things. that previous decisions have not been followed up and implemented. A good example of this is Storting's treatment of the marine defence conversion, Poseidon, a few years ago. In dealing with this matter, it was decided that Hysne's war station and practice department should continue, contrary to the Government's recommendations. The current State Council Løwer stated that this decision had to have consequences for other parts of the Maritime Defense. In retrospect, we can see that this has not happened. The decision of the majority at that time is not respected — no other attempts at conversion has been made. And today, the Stortinget is invited again to lay down Hysne's war station and practice department. I am very sorry that Storting’s intention from 1998 has not been followed up. Another point in the setting that I'm not satisfied with is the proposal to shut down the Air Force Station. The process of selecting the location of the new ARS in South Norway has been strange. FS 2000 proposed Mågerø as a site choice. In St. prp. No 45 is Kongswinger suggested. Early in the process, the Committee was briefed that the difference between Mågerø and Gråkallen was marginal and that Kongswinger was a horsehead at the front. After what must have been a long and thorough process in the department, the figures were significantly different. The difference between Kongswinger and Mågerø had suddenly become relatively small, while the grey-collar came out 100 million. kr more expensive than the other two. I think this sounds very strange. I think it would have made sense to choose the Grey guy in this case, this because of several circumstances. Among other things, a pool of expertise would have been located densely in an environment in central Norway. In addition to the Gråkallen, I think about the environment at Ørland Main Aviation Station and the environment at the Air War School. There are points in this setting that I'm very pleased with, and I'll mention a few examples. I am especially pleased with the choice of Ørland as the main aviation station and the choice of Værnes as the place for recruiting training for the Home Guard. Ørland is the station in the country that they have decided the best opportunities to exercise and practice. The station has great competence and a good environment in terms of housing the IRF team. Furthermore, the station is located in a local environment where there are no conflicts between military interests and the civilian population at all, as is the case for airports in more densely populated areas and in places where air traffic is significantly larger than in Ørland. So a little bit about Guards in connection with the recruiting training for the Home Guard. In my opinion, for several reasons this is a very wise choice. Perhaps the most important reason is the importance of Central Norway in the national defence policy context. I am thinking about the NALMEB agreement on pre-stored equipment in Central Norway. It is vital for the defence of Norway not to signal a defensive down-priority of Middle Norway, risking the withdrawal of pre-storage material from the Trondelag. That's exactly what you signal if you don't add any military activity to the Guards. I would like to admit that the strength of combat and the ability to defend stocks in a sharp situation is not satisfactory in the case of HV recruits conducting a four or six-month training. But that's not what this is about. It's about showing willingness to prioritize the area and to show military presence. Furthermore, there are a whole range of benefits of Guards in relation to other relevant areas in relation to this location. One moment is communication. There is hardly anywhere else in Norway that is better covered in relation to communication opportunities. You have an airport – of course – you have E6, which goes through the municipality of Stjørdal, and you have a port and a railway. The practice opportunities are unique. For what are HV soldiers doing? Well, essentially it's securing objects. In this way, the Værnes and Stjørdal area is full of relevant features for training recruits. I'm going to be the first to admit that there are shooting and practice fields elsewhere in the country that are better than the Lexdal and Frigård shooting fields, which are relevant in the case of Guards. But I would like to point out that the cost of upgrading these shooting areas has been included in the cost assessments made in relation to the Guards. With minimal investments, these shooting areas will maintain a good target in relation to the training to be carried out. Noise is a moment that has been used as an argument against Guards in this context. To that I would say the following: the airport owner, i.e. The defence is mandated by the Ministry of the Environment to produce and maintain noise zone maps. Revised noise zone maps were last developed in 1999. The maps are drawn up according to guidelines from the Ministry of the Environment. I am not sure that all the noise maps referred to in this process have been developed according to the same guidelines. These noise zone maps show that most of the buildings in question are located in noise zones I and II. Only a small part of the building mass is located in noise zone III. A large hangar is located in noise zone IV, and it is quite natural that a hangar is located close to a flight stripe. New barracks, educational buildings and welfare buildings are listed. These buildings are constructed in accordance with the noise insulation requirements set out in the building regulations, according to the type of construction and the noise zone concerned. This is provided by the Defence Building Service. So I can safely recommend Værnes as a location for the Recruitment Training of the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e298	The President is somewhat uncertain about proposal No. 50 is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e302	If not, I would like to take the opportunity to address proposal No. 50, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e307	Tore Nordseth has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e310	Gradually, this debate has become very fragmented. It's simple proposals and single conversions that have dominated, and to a lesser extent, the big lines. In a sense, perhaps the most important fact that this debate should have been about has become somewhat blurred, namely that we have a serious imbalance in our defence, and that the behaviour of the Storting has contributed to this over the last ten years – along with technological developments. The biggest challenge we should have discussed here today is how we can once again achieve a balance between the need for defence in Norway and the money we are willing to spend on it. Many people sometimes use insurance premiums as an example of why we're going to bet on a defense. I really don't agree with that example, because an insurance premium is something you passively pay, and then you get money back only after it's burned. The difference between this and betting on a defense is what Tom Thoresen forgot in his listing of what's important to bet on, that's the fact that a defense itself gives a deterrent effect that makes it less likely that a conflict occurs. That's what we've been building on for the last 50 years, and that's what we should still be building our defence policy on -- that we have a defense that's deterrent enough, that sets limits, so that any limited or major attack on Norwegian territory never becomes relevant, because the combination of self-help and alliance links makes us think of ourselves as a too difficult attack target. For it is not that the Cold War has made us necessarily less in need of a defense. What we actually need is a different defense in some areas than what we had in the past. It must be a crossroads for the majority in Norway that we are talking about maybe we have a less tense situation, while at the same time we have more men in active service in conflict situations now than we have ever had before. The fact that we have been given peace does not mean that we have a less need for defence. Therefore, it has been important for the Right that we have built our war structure on two essential elements. It is that we must take into account that we must have a defence that can work with our allies. It makes demands on how to man, how to upgrade, and that we should be able to work together technologically. But we also need to stress that Norwegian geography makes some extra demands in relation to what the war structure should look like. For us, the war structure has been crucial, and it has always been. We believe that the starting point for the defence study, namely that the Workers' Party has not been willing to grant more than approx. 25 billion kroner in recent years, can't be governing how we're going to dimension the defense, but the needs and what it takes to get the defense that we think should also cover a deterrent perspective. That is why we have proposed a balanced increase in all arms. We've secured MTBs, a mobile and coastal defense, we want more planes, more transport capacity, and we want four brigades, because we think it's going to be a break point in building up our skills if we go below exactly this level. We have addressed the double imbalance. We believe that we have set up a structure that will give credibility to our defences, including among people outside this house, because we have addressed the question of war structure, the question of needs, and not just the question of what budget framework to have. We have felt that the focus has been shifted too far from the Norwegian challenges, although we agree that our alliance relationship requires active cooperation in international operations. It has become worse because the Workers' Party wants international operations to be resolved within the framework of what is now granted. Once again, it means that we are in a situation where we have to cut down on important investments and material assets each year and the priorities we have in Norway, to say that this is going to increase next year. Every time we have done that, the increase has not come in the budgets later. I'm sorry that we haven't managed to reach an agreement on a budgetary framework that's adapted to the war structure that the majority wants. I think it would have been important that at least we had set a minimum threshold based on what the Workers' Party's chief spokeswoman said earlier, that they would respect a majority. This challenge lies gradually with the Progress Party, by establishing a majority here which, according to the representative Fossli, will at least be a majority they will respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e327	The defense is inside the largest conversion process ever, and more can be expected in the long term, informs the defense chief. In this context, it is planned that the Army's administrative school in Halden will be merged with corresponding schools in the Air Force and the Maritime Defense to a common school for the entire Defence. This is recommended for Oslo and Akershus fastening. But the Army's administrative school itself believes that the best whole solution is a location in Halden, where everything is arranged for the school to start immediately. This conclusion is based on an analysis of the evidence underlying the recommendation made by Project Argus to the Defence Chief and the Defence Committee. There are conditions that include the proximity of professional environments in the technology and higher education city of Halden, and where opportunities for using technology-based teaching methods are unique. Another important feature is the exploitation of the Defence Property Mass on the Fredriksten fastening. It will be very unfortunate and not in line with the main content of the case, saving money, choosing a defence solution that will lead to investment in new buildings and renovation in the hundreds of millions class in order to provide a satisfactory school environment. Everything is ready for use in Halden. Nevertheless, there is a proposal to put this to rest, and then to build a new one in already hard pressed Oslo. In this regard, I have noted that the Right in Oslo thinks there is enough pressure on Oslo as it already is, and actually wants some functions out of the capital. In view of this documentation from Argus and the school's own recommendations, the representatives Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and I will therefore propose that the Defence Administration School be fully established at Fredriksten fastening in Halden. This means that Halden is to be the Center of Competence of Defence in Management and Management. Although Halden is responsible for administrative education, he can be organized under the defense school centre Akershus fastening. It ensures a coordinated exercise of the administration of the Defence Agency to place professional responsibility in one place. It is natural to have such an activity in Halden, because there is already a professional and educational environment that is well developed. The network of civil institutions is established and the building and educational resources are organised and ready to be used. The goal of the change in the defense is to get more defense out of each crown, you would think. Is it right, then, to mix military air traffic into the country's main civil aerodrome, with the obvious problems it will cause? The combination you do by choosing the Gardermo rather than the Back as the main airfield for the Air Force will, in my opinion, be almost fatal. Both the Government's and the Centre's proposals choose to spread operations on both Rygge and Gardermoen. The question is whether it is not most cost-effective to collect everything in one place. For the purpose of the tanker aircraft project, it is important that the tanker can be operated at a location with a high fuel capacity. In today's situation, we know that this capacity on the Gardermo is very limited. At Back, this capacity is five times greater than the military fuel plant at the Gardermoen. As a military air station, backlogs also have great flexibility in landing capability. Rygge has a large number of aircraft bunkers where the fighter planes are parked in the daily service. In these aircraft bunkers, aeroplanes are protected during fuelling and weapons. The technical environment on Rygge is a very important piece in maintaining 15 minutes of standby at 330 squadron rescue helicopters. In Rygge, the defence is given the freedom and not least flexibility that is appropriate both in the airspace and on the ground. Again, there are threats to put down the defense music. This is the second time in ten years that some of Norway’s strongest music intermediaries are threatened, especially with children and young people. The district music corps are a living proof of a cultural tradition that goes back hundreds of years in time. The defense's District Music Corps Eastland has proven traditions dating back to 1734. So these seven institutions belong to another department where there is a greater chance of survival. The representatives of the independent group therefore propose that this be added to one department, namely the Ministry of Culture. We find it unfortunate to involve another level of government represented by the county. It's not the right instance to be able to continue the divisional music and its traditions. In addition to the music distribution performed by the Corps, many of the musicians are also active in the various local environments as instructors of choirs and corps. In addition, Janitjar music is of great importance to the country. We all know how important corps and choirs are when the holidays are there. I take up the suggestions from Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e356	The representative Stang has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e361	The defence reform we are debating today should be about two aspects. Firstly, it should be about how the defense can be modernised to deal with the full range of tasks it is expected to solve today and in the foreseeable future. Secondly, it should be about how the defence leadership – and I believe that both the defence minister and his department and the head of defence and his staff – can better be able to operate and renew their organisation in an appropriate way. From both these perspectives, the recommendations of the Government provided a useful starting point. It's in St.prp. No 45 place considerable emphasis on both the modernisation of the defence strength structure and on new tools for enhanced defence management. Although I believe that there should be significantly greater resources on the defence than the government has provided, I agree with the direction of the conversion. Modernising defence is imperative, both in order to strengthen our national defence and in order to fulfil our obligations in NATO. I therefore agree with the proposed modernisation of the defence strength structure, with a greater emphasis on response capability, mobility and capacity to solve all types of missions. At the same time, I would like to use more resources to modernise the strength structure, preferably on structural elements such as the defence manager's demand, such as. tankers, unmanned aircraft and an upgrade of the Army's effort force to a complete Brigade. In addition, Norway should strongly consider the acquisition of combat helicopters, which has repeatedly been requested in NATO. Finally, I believe that major resources must be provided, so that, in particular, the level of training and exercise and the motivation of officers and soldiers can be raised. Although I understand the argument of having a self-responsive head of defense, my central point in the recommended reform of the top management of the defence is that the majority of the committee rejects the Government's proposal to integrate the head of defence and his strategic functions into the department. Then I'll draw out five points. Firstly, it will strengthen the ability of the defence management to strategically plan and manage the defence by bringing this work together within one management structure. Secondly, it will strengthen the defence manager’s own ability to exercise influence on key decision-making processes. Thirdly, it will strengthen Norway's capacity for international cooperation, both by increasing its capacity for uniform international action and by providing us with a governance system similar to that of our most central allies. Fourthly, it will strengthen our capacity for crisis management, because trade-union advice will be immediately and directly available to policy management, government and escalation in crisis situations. Fifth, it will allow priority to be given to the sharp end and large savings in the management apparatus through synergies, the elimination of duplication and the removal of organisational levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e376	The defense will defend us in crises and wars. I have to say that I am quite surprised at the attitude that exists today, when one looks at the signals over the 1990s, at the changes we have had, and what tasks we as elected representatives will provide the defence. As I have mentioned with the Minister of Defence before, the numbering material is also the basis for the decisions we are going to make in terms of where we are going to place activity, indicative. From part of the country to part of the country, from municipality to municipality, which also has a self-interest in preserving what they have from defence facilities, one sees alternative investigations in terms of costs. And when one then sets it up against what has come from the department and in settings, there is nothing of what is right – not in a single location case, we see that there is consistency between the local investigations and the groups that are set up in that context and what the defense is in favour of. So I don't think it's going to be long before we get a new proposition to the Storting where we have to re-treat the economy. I think that the structure that's in the proposition is underfunded, and that's to a thousand-- actually multiple hundred million dollars, maybe billions. So we have to struggle with this. But the most important thing about the debate and discussion we have today is that we have to look at the framework we are going to give our defence. I think that many of those who work in the Defense Department are interested in running a proper and proper defense. They are not taken seriously in the defense when they come up with new ideas and ideas, it's just about moving posts here and there. I must also say that when one looks at the positions that have come, and at the debate that is going on in localisation, we see that virtually all the representatives in this Chamber, regardless of which party they come from, are occupied by their neighbourhoods. And that might not be so strange. But I believe that what is crucial, and what is important, is that we get a defence that can serve the challenges we face in the future, also in conjunction with our allies. In fact, I think it's important to listen to our allies. When one looks at what has come to mind, for example. The war stations, which other representatives have been involved in here, we see that the war stations and the maritime districts that have the most visited, which have the largest exercises with our allies, in this message, are actually being erased, without one showing that a saves the crowns and ear by this. And I have to say that I am shaken and disappointed by my old party, the Progress Party, which has actually shaved everything called land-based defence in the South. There is nothing left! Then it's not useful to bring music crews and blow a little in the trombones, although it's also important. That is why I absolutely have to raise proposal No. 38, which calls for military activity to be maintained on the Evjemo, proposal No. 39, that Marvika is maintained as a war station, and proposal No. 40, which insists that a common defence defence duty administration be established in Kristiansand. It's cost-effective, and the defense is going to save a lot of money following these proposals, which I am promoting on behalf of myself and the representatives of Jørn L. Stang and Terje Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e389	The representative Kleppe has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e392	Inner. S. No 342, which deals with Mr Stoltenberg's proposal for significant changes in defence, has several heavy principles and individual issues that will affect the country and individual sites in the coming decades. The Christian People's Party states in the vote that the Norwegian defence will continue to be a popular defence enshrined in the duty of protection in the future. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Advance Party raise doubts about this position in the vote. The Christian People's Party believes that the HV service must be continued and strengthened, that organisations must be streamlined in the management structure, and not least that new equipment must be phased into the various arms branches. As an Eastfold representative, I am very surprised that a strategic and well-equipped facility such as Rygge's main aviation station is being proposed, or that it can now be expected that we will have a certain postponement in connection with this postponement proposal that is in the position. This is a facility of high and good quality, so the alternative is to move this type of activity to Gardermoen, a plant that has already been detonated because of civil aviation. Fortunately, there is a part that now sees the need to have a postponement of the matter. In this process, Eastfold is severely affected, by the closure of all military activities in Fredrikstad, by the closure of the workshops in Rakkestad and by the threat of closure, possibly transformation, of the administrative school in Halden. Administratively and economically, all training in this area of administration should be done in Halden, not least on the basis of the clear assumption that it will be economically economical and that it can also lead to good professional quality. The divisional music in Halden now seems to have been saved, supposedly by the Workers' Party, but it is the Workers' Party that has carried out this reduction in the setting. The proposal from the Workers' Party, on which we are now invited to participate, is a proposal that might save this music, but it says that a future structure should be assessed. I hope that it is possible in this room now to get in touch with the alternatives of the centre parties, namely to maintain seven military corps. The Labour Party has the opportunity to support the case in voting this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e411	With only three minutes available, I choose the strategy to let my mouth take out what the heart is especially concerned about in this case, namely the presence of the defense in the north, and then especially the location of the Joint Operational Headquarters. The central parties stressed that the main challenges for national defence lie in the northern regions, taking into account the consequences of this by proposing that the Joint Operational Headquarters be added to Reitan at Bodø. I also choose to put the emphasis on the defence's tasks in peacetime, starting from the position we have as a maritime nation. It will then be important to focus on the resource base and the value potential revealed in relation to the northern seas. Norway is a maritime nation in both national and global contexts. Norway has no significant military power position, but as a small nation, we manage sea areas in a way that no other nation can show. This is our great advantage and at the same time makes us vulnerable in international terms. Most of the Norwegian economic zone is located in the north. We have grey zone problems in relation to Russia, we have fishing protection zones around Svalbard, we have fishing protection zones at Jan Mayen, and we have the Mutthole and the Smuttavet. Norway is a sea country with national and regional interests in relation to oil, gas, fisheries and aquaculture. National research communities have identified significant value creation potential in the marine industries over the next 30 years. The resource base in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea will be crucial for the Norwegian economy in the future. At the same time, we know that today this maritime area is under strong pressure from other countries in terms of withdrawals and taxation. There's no reason to expect that this pressure will slow down in the future. It is on this background that I have noticed with amazement that the Workers' Party and the Right will add the Joint Operational Headquarters of Defense to a detachment – I'm sorry, but I call it that in relation to the challenges the Defense faces nationally. The Workers' Party and the Right prioritize NATO and international operations by placing headquarters on Jåttå – in contravention of trade-military recommendations – and thus signaling a down-priority to the major national challenges in the northern regions. The coastal population has learned to believe that there is hope in hanging strings, and the string is not dragged in until the vote result is available tonight. It is a cross-thinking that an overall vote by the Nordic representatives can reverse the result – I just mention it. Let it be clear: in the Christian People's Party, we will give priority to the national interests in the northern regions and vote for Reitan as the joint operational headquarters of the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e426	Defence reform is not just a matter of defence. It also affects the cultural life of the regions concerned to a large extent. The size has been shown in the past by increasing appropriations for, among others: The symphony orchestras that we want to prioritise music life in Norway. There will be great negative consequences, especially for Kristiansand Symphony Orchestras, if the musicians of the Defence Music Corps in Kristiansand were to disappear to other parts of the country. Both in Halden and in Kristiansand, these musicians are strong resource people in many areas of music life. They're instructors of corps and corps conductors, they're educators in the cultural schools, they play for kindergartens and schools, and they have an important role in the higher education community. This is not just defence policy. It is cultural policy, a cultural policy that is invaluable and effective as preventive work for children and young people. The work these musicians do is very important as an alternative to an otherwise commercial everyday life. They are active and professional resource people in many areas outside their corps and are of great importance for the recruitment of the music profession. In Kristiansand the symphony orchestra is also completely dependent on the musicians in the divisional music. Without them, the symphony orchestra would be nothing but a chamber orchestra. So it would be almost a disaster for music life if these musicians disappeared to other parts of the country. The defense will probably not save so much in the next few years either, because the musicians are entitled to wait pay. The Workers' Party, with its proposal, will ask the Government to give the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Culture an opportunity to come up with a solution that is much better than just shutting down the Halden and Kristiansand Corps. We have repeatedly tried to show how important these musicians are to the overall music life of their regions, and we hope with this proposal to reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e440	As an east fold, I must say very pleased today, because a further investigation of Rygge Flystation, as the majority is now in favour, has been a very important matter for us in Eastfold. Now Gardermoen, Kjeller and Rågge are taken out of the proposition and examined further and are to be submitted for new treatment until the autumn. The questions that the Committee will have examined are whether it is possible to move all or part of the workshop activities at the Air Force Supply Command to, for example: Smoke or Gardermoen, so that vacant land on Kjeller can be sold. It will also require a new investigation of the 717 and 720 squadrons, and whether it is at all possible to move these squadrons to the Gardermoen, as the proposition went on. It's not many years since the 717 squadron was moved from Gardermoen to Back for security reasons. Smoking has expansion opportunities for military activities within existing land, which is essential for achieving the effectiveness and flexibility of the conversion of the defence. At Gardermoen, there are many pressures, not least on air traffic services, and there are likely to be major difficulties in accepting additional training for fighter aircraft. Backs are stocked for ammunition that meets all the requirements, and by choosing Back you don't carry fuel all the way from Larkollen, the long road through densely populated struts, and along a heavily trafficked road to Gardermoen. I expect as a matter of course that the rescue helicopters, which are located on the Back today, will not be moved until the final decision is taken. The management school in Halden is in place, right with a division between Oslo and Halden, but as strongly as the Workers' Party has established that all the new state activities that are being established will be established outside Oslo, I believe that the management school in Halden will grow in the years to come, in favour of Halden and the unique school and IT environment that is already in town. Halden has many advantages over Oslo. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has made proposals to ask the Government to assess whether the Divisional Music in Halden and Kristiansand will be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and will continue to operate in cooperation with the relevant municipalities and municipalities. The big thing cannot let such an important cultural institution, with as great an impact on music as the Divisional Music has, be lost. I therefore hope that the Labour Party's proposal, No. 50, gets a majority when other primary proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e453	The conversion of the Defense has aroused debate and great commitment, both here on the Storting and around our counties. There are substantial and necessary amendments to be adopted today. But it is only the military defence that has been provided, while a big message of civil protection will be available until the harvest. Today's defense is more than bullets and powdered. Therefore, unfortunately, an important part of the overall defence principle and the necessary holisticity are missing in the debate today. From the comments, it may seem that the Workers' Party has left the principle of total defence, and I am surprised that the Government of the Minister of Justice sees it as natural to promote a roll-call report on civil protection after the Defence is in place, for example. be able to address the consequences of the changes. The overall idea of the use of instruments and resources in peace, crisis and war will be a major challenge when military defence is already in place. The reality is that military defence cannot work if it cannot rely on a functioning civil society. You have to deal with that. The person responsible for a sector in peacetime is also responsible for planning and implementing measures in crisis and war. It suggests that there should have been a mandatory course for both girls and boys on the principles of total defence. It would have a value for society and individuals, while at the same time preserving the understanding that defence is important, and that it concerns us all. The maintenance of the 18 HV districts is very positive. It also maintains HV-04 in Kongsvinger. Following the government's proposal, the business at Vardåsen was to continue. However, both the Labour Party and other parties have changed their position to Mågerø. This is the second time there is a fight between Vardåsen and Mågerø. Therefore, an investigation, in which one representative of each of the three relevant locations of Kongsvinger, Mågerø and Gråkallen was in the investigation group, would have eliminated the uncertainty that now exists both among employees and politicians at the relevant sites. The uncertainty is what numbers and arguments you can really rely on. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be a majority for an investigation. For the Eastern Region, cost estimates have been significantly increased since the enlargement decision. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that a new estimate of costs should be presented. Consideration of the environment, noise and affected neighbours must be given to a high degree of emphasis and the issue of noise concession needs to be clarified before the works start. These matters are a natural consequence of the review of the defence that is now in progress. The Haslemo consists, and the Christian People's Party has proposed that the Centre of Competence for Car Drivers in the Defense should be added there. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency is added to Hamar – so Hedmark remains a clear defence force, even after the changes in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e470	In my first period as a permanent representative on the Stortinget, the Defence Committee was my special field. Four years in the committee didn't make me Colonel, but I got a solid impression of the business and insight into a part of Norwegian society that I, as a girl, would never have. In line with the foreign policy pursued in our country, where there has always been an emphasis on seeking as broad a consensus as possible, there should also be as broad a support as possible within the defence plans. The election campaign and election campaign play are poorly matched in a long-term defence plan. I had hoped that it would be possible to reach an obligating agreement that had ensured the future plans – a defence policy settlement. It had earned the defense, and deserved it, and it had secured the budgets of the Defense in the coming years. When it did not happen, I would nevertheless like to express my pleasure today that the setting ensures that new motor torpedo boats will now be built at Umoe in Mandal. Although I will not in any way conceal that my loyalty to my party has never been put on a larger test than the day the message was presented, I never gave up hope that it would be a reality anyway. Why were the MTBs so important? Was it because they were to be built in my neighborhood of Mandal? Important enough, but not decisive. Was it because Mandal needed the jobs? Important too, but most importantly, the MTBs have an important job to do in the defence of our long-range coast. MTBs, as fighting vessels, are particularly adapted to the special and demanding conditions along the Norwegian coast. And last but not least: Norwegian industry has demonstrated again at Skjold that it is able to produce groundbreaking technology, and that is not what some have claimed, that Norwegian industry determines what kind of ship Norway should have. On the contrary, the defence needs have created shields. The head of defense has previously stated that if he got more money, he would not use it on MTB vessels. That decision lies with us here in the Storting, and we are going to make that decision, among other things. Got it today. And finally, allow me to rewrite a few lines of a poem by poet Robert Frost: "We had promises to keep, and a long way to go before we could drag."
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e487	Rarely has a matter received more attention than St.prp. No 45 about the conversion of the Defense. Whether it's because you're alive in a good defense, or if you see Defense as a good district policy, you have to be unsaid. For the Progress Party, it's the heart of the matter that's important, that's to get as good a defense as possible for the number of dollars you want to spend. Throughout all the years, in all the debates, the Progress Party has sought a large, effective and good defence and has also tried to facilitate this in its budgets. In today's case, this applies inter alia. to maintain 83,000 men in the field of Homeland Protection, and to have a good air defence, an army, a marine defence, etc. who can take care of their country's wishes for its security and that of others. As a resident of Hedmark – with many military installations – and as a former officer – I have been very concerned about the content, possibilities and necessity of the defence in the future. When I happen to have mentioned Hedmark, I have to spend some time on this. There were, among other things: The Home Guard and the Vardåsen on Kongsvinger and Haslemoen camp in the Våler in Solør affected in a negative way, i.e. closure. Fortunately, it looks like only the Vardåse is shut down and the military activity is being moved to Mågerø. When this is decided, the defence must, as far as possible, make other use possible as quickly as possible, both in the Vardåsen and in other closed military installations, both in order to minimise negative ring-effects for the community that once had great benefits from the Defence, and not to cause any significant deterioration in the properties. In the case of HV-04, the Home Guard will be involved in making Kongswinger Fortress in a very positive way. It's almost just at Kongswinger Fortress people can most experience a living defense. Elsewhere, it's usually a closed camp. An open camp I think will certainly create positive links between defence and the civilian population. So to Haslemoen's camp, which was also proposed. This is a very good clay, both quality and in other areas. It would be very unwise to establish a military power station in the internal east region without exploiting the capacity of Haslemoen. When so Østerdal garrison is established, the camp at Rena and Elverum with the Terningmoen, and now fortunately also the Haslermoen, will complement each other in a perfectly perfect way, and you will avoid large investments that would otherwise have to be made if Haslermoen had been shut down and the business moved to another place. Otherwise I see on page 66, XXVIII in the settings, that some workshops have been proposed. I assume that this does not apply to Haslemoen's technical workshop, but that this is maintained and continued as long as there is military activity at Haslemoen. This is a great, future-oriented workshop that is a good product and service manufacturer. I also hope that the work and plans at both Rena clay and Regionfelt Eastland will go their way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e506	I want to focus on two areas in this setting. One is that Norway is one of two NATO countries per year. the current date does not have an integrated management, i.e.: that the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Command of the Defence have merged. In NATO's contacts with the new Member States and those applying for membership, an integrated management is clearly recommended. An integrated model facilitates effective and more flexible war management adapted to a new and complex threat picture, as the new era requires. An integrated model will provide greater clarity and accountability. It will be easier to develop and implement a comprehensive national strategy in NATO and in other international organisations where Norway is represented both civil and military. It is very regrettable that this is not now getting a majority in this Chamber. The second point is the debate on the location of the headquarters: Yes or Reitan. The exposure in this case has been very large. I even come from this ‘off hook’ that Sahl was talking about in town, apparently a completely insignificant detachment in Norway – I’m from Stavanger in Rogaland. It seems that this detachment will get a majority in this hall tonight as far as the location is concerned. This is due not least to the outbreaks of the Christian People's Party, which Sahl represents. I believe that the division of labour proposed here between Joint Operational Headquarters on Jåttå in Stavanger and what the Government has proposed for Landsdelskommando Nord, advanced in Reitan, is sensible and very good. The District Command will be given the task of National Crisis Management Command for the Northern Region. It shall have capacity and expertise to continuously monitor the situation in the northern seas and in the associated airspace. The government says that it wants the Centre to be seen in the context of efforts to strengthen the planning, development and coordination of defence and civil services in the areas of preparedness, rescue and surveillance in the north. The Workers' Party has chosen to place Joint Operational Headquarters on Jåttå because it is believed that contact with NATO is also important. The Headquarters will exercise operational command over all assigned national forces that have overarching territorial responsibility and are assumed to be provided with full joint operational functionality in peace. One of the most important tasks of the headquarters will be to execute operational command of the parts of the Defence Forces operating abroad. These will be part of a multinational force under operational control of a multinational headquarters when they are ready in the area of intervention. The tendency is that such operations are managed by NATO. Close contact with NATO's command structure simplifies this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e517	As it looks after today's debate, the ECO is put down on Retan, and the new overcommand is added to Yåttå outside Stavanger. In my view, it is also a goodbye to bet on a national defence, in favour of participation in international missions. It is simply a signal to the whole world that Norway will in the future want to invest more in international performance missions, possibly leading to honours and good words in the EU and the UN context – and this will be at the expense of a national defence! I want to ask the majority, which consists of the Labour Party and the Right, if they know why we have a defense, and if they know what it means to move from Retan to Yåttå. A defense has as its primary objective the prevention of war or crisis-like situations, by a nation's sending out signals to the outside world that they want to defend themselves. If some areas are particularly threatened or particularly valuable to that country, additional measures will be put in place in these areas. With all possible respect for the majority, all possible logic stops here. If you look at potential conflict areas, there is no military disagreement that the likely conflict areas are located in the northern regions. And you don't have to be particularly awake or have university education to see that today's and the future's riches are in the northern regions. The oil extraction is heading north, the deposits of the future are in these areas, the pantry of the world is in the Barents Sea. We have unexplained border areas against Russia, the Svalbard areas, sensitive transport corridors from Russia, etc. etc. And then the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, choose to move from this area. That's the logic, logic on a very high level! Which other country at its full five would find something so clever as to withdraw its over-command from the areas that in the future will be the main source of income for the country – where it should really be important to be present and assert sovereignty? Of course, EU workers and the Right are not so concerned with future UN/EU taboos that they are willing to sacrifice national security. But I am reasonably sure that the admirals and generals of our allied forces who are included in the discussion on Reitan versus Yåttå shake their heads at the fact that Norway is putting international bets ahead of a national defence. The only sensible thing is to bet on a national defence, where the headquarters is added to the areas where the future values and possible conflict areas lie. When a person bases signal power, presence, national defence, and asserting sovereignty, there is only one reasonable choice for future overcommand, and that is to add it to Retan. Although it may be too much, I hope the Workers' Party and the Right are making sense. Otherwise this will be a sad day in the country's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e540	As has been said several times, it is a majority in the Defence Committee who have elected Jåttå at Stavanger rather than Retan at Bodø to a new joint operating headquarters in the new Norwegian defence. There are probably a few reasons to choose Yåttå, but in my view there are several – and important – reasons for choosing Retan. The representative Grethe Fossli of the Workers' Party said in a reply earlier today that consideration was given to the interaction with NATO that was important, a cooperative to allow the Norwegian defence to lead prestigious NATO operations in the Balkans and in the Middle East. That is why the Workers' Party and the Right Party have on Jåttå. It is a choice that violates the idea of security policy and the priority that has underpinned Norwegian defence and foreign policy for many decades, a policy on which there has to a large extent been a broad political consensus. Now, the Workers' Party and the Right are choosing to shift the defence policy focus away from the North. Although the direct military threat has been reduced in the last decade, it is a fact that new threat images have emerged. Environmental threats can, in the worst case, lead to disastrous results for Norway and North Norway in particular. The potential for conflict between resource policy and international law is in no way reduced. Mining and preventing potential conflicts in the north in these open areas has been a priority within Norwegian security policy. The choice of Jåttå is to turn your back to the north, focus and look to the south and also outside the country. It is not just questions about Jåttå/Reitan that suggest that the Workers' Party is looking away from the northernmost part of the country. After listening to the statements made by the Labour Party representatives on this matter, and not least when reading the position of the Defence Committee, few doubt that the Workers' Party wants a severe reduction of the Defence in North Norway. The reduction and reduction of the Norwegian defence in the north of the Workers' Party seems to me to be best made visible through proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. That proposal envisages the phasing out of nine coastal ports and six underwater facilities. One of the sites proposed by the Workers' Party is Malangen Coastal Fort, one of the best in the world. What makes Malangen coastal fort especially in this case, however, is that the fort is finished today, on the same day as the Workers' Party proposes it closed. If the Labour Party's proposal had a majority, it would have built a fort to 250 million. kr as the same day that the fort was completed, with test shot and all, would close – wall again the entire fort. 250 million. kr right out of the window!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e555	There is a broad political consensus that it is right to have one common headquarters and two sub-national commands. The disagreement is linked to the location of the headquarters. Many specific arguments have been used in the debate – even here tonight. When the Right has decided that Yåttå outside of Stavanger is the best location, this is not because the Right believes that another location would have led to NATO laying down its sub-regional headquarters on Jåttå, or that one wants to signal a weaker presence in the North. I would strongly warn against such an argument, as among other things. came in the last two articles. On the other hand, the right has placed great emphasis on the strong military professional judgements of the chief of defence. He writes, among other things: in an article in the Evening Post: ‘A co-location on Yåttå for FOHK and NATO Headquarters, under the same command, allows a functional command structure with a smooth transition from peace to crisis and war.’ It would not make sense to organize differently when one knows that as well allied assistance as Norwegian forces in a crisis or war will be transferred to NATO's command; that is, to establish a headquarters that in a war situation will not have the authority to conduct the operations itself. A co-location strengthens the personal and professional links between the Norwegian command and the NATO command. In sum, it will provide better conditions for dealing with crises and war situations together. Co-location at Jåttå also meets the need for management of international operations. A nation of the size of Norway cannot shake away the enormous possibility of exchange of experience that this entails. There is no conflict between having an international commitment and having a sound national defence. For Norway, this is quite the opposite. But, one must also be willing to pay the bill for this. The localization on Jåttå, as many have been involved, is not a signal of a down-priority of the northern regions. On the contrary, this setting will increase the focus in this area. The Reitox national part-command will also play an important role as an advance in national peace-time and crisis management in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e579	The majority today discusses the position of the Defence Committee on the future defence. Until recently, the parties apparently agreed to put defence policy ahead of regional policy. However, after the discussions took place, it was informed that regional policy was once again given priority. This has gone down on Homeland too. Both the Chief of Defense and the Government suggested that the Homeland Protection should be located at the Guards. But when the setting came, the educational enterprise was split up between four places: Værnes, Heistandmoen, Kongsvinger and Dombås. Some reason was that the Home Guard had increased from 60,000 to 83,000 men. As a representative from Buskerud, I am pleased that Heistandmoen will be used in the future, but I wonder that one of the two schools that the Heimevert has, namely Torpomoen in Ål Municipality, is now closed down after the committee treatment. There were probably others who wondered when the municipality informed both the Defense and the Defence Committee that the defence had to go ahead of its own districts and the 70 year works that were directly lost in one municipality. After the sky selection, the Torpomo has been upgraded for about 30 million. The four-five last years, and is today a time-consuming and modern camp. The ball has the capacity to run three courses at the same time in own school facilities, unlike the Dombås school, where much of the teaching has to be done regionally and one stands ahead of large expansion costs, nearly 100 million. kr. The HV ball of the defense on the Torpo is also an exercise area of 3,500 dimensions. It becomes strange when the HV ball at Dombås has to expand, while the large teaching capacity that is already at Torpo today would also meet the need in the future. For Storting and Defense, it's probably too late to turn around, but I hope this is a good example of the impact of resource use when districts become more important than the target. People are having trouble understanding what we're doing in this house. But a number that everyone had to give and take would be created, and the result we see today. So some words about the Ringerix region. All three of the ladders are erased. Why the Whalesmoen must go and the Engineering Company moved to Haslemoen when the setting was as she was, I wonder. But when a region takes its political will seriously, and loses 600-700 district workplaces and their ring-fences, I hope that the big community has the ability and the will to be a little round-handed back. It is a major challenge for a region to lose its second largest job, and means of conversion must be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e596	The defence is today in a deep structural crisis, and the call for change has been great. It is against this background that we are today considering what defence Norway needs. The balance between quality and quantity in the defence is difficult, but extremely important. Such a balance is not today. The keyword is, as I said, conversion. We need to change from being a mobilization defense adapted to the cold war time, to be able to stand alone until ally's help comes, and to be able to contribute effectively in international operations. Modern wars, such as the Gulf War and the Kosovo War, show that the air force is the spearhead. Kampfly is a prerequisite for asserting sovereignty in its own airspace. Kampfly is an important contribution to international peace operations. Norwegian participation in such operations requires aeroplanes that can interact with the other forces and units of the NATO Alliance. In my opinion, this is not much of a matter for the Government. In fact, there are assumptions about buying new fighter aircraft in the cancellation. But the number proposed here is largely a substitute for the old F-16s and the lost F-16s. It's not good with our air defense. Large parts of the aircraft have been more in the hangar than they have been in the air. What we know is that the Air Force needs 30 F-16 planes at all times to enable the pilots to maintain and improve their skills. The Norwegian pilots are currently at the minimum level of NATO with regard to the number of flight hours. We have a level of ambition to have a squadron out in international operations. It is therefore important not to postpone this economic promise to the Defense but to now actively decide to replace the F-16 planes with a new generation of fighter aircraft, and a minimum should be a number of 60 aircraft. As I see it, it is difficult to ensure effective air defence of the capital and the central eastern part of the country without the need to smoke the main airfield still to be air operations. Putting the Back in the Møllbag, as the Government will, is a very bad suggestion. Smoking is important for the exercise activity of our fighter pilots and for allied aircraft that need a military airport in the south on the way to North Norway, making it easier to participate in allied exercises in the Atlantic Basin, etc. It is therefore a wise proposal that the majority now advocates in the vote on a new investigation into Rygge – Kjeller – Gardermoen. It is equally positive that the Committee sets a short deadline. It would be unsustainable if this were to go for a long time. I want to finally get into the Divisional Music and the "Let Live" action that we've had there. It would have been a wish that all the corps could have passed. I think you're ignoring the cultural and cultural significance these have had, and a crew costs no more on an annual basis than a two-hour exercise with the MTB. In the light of what I am saying now, the Right will give its full support to the proposal that has been put forward here and that is in the Chamber – proposal No. 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e611	Let me not hide the fact that I am disappointed that the government did not get a majority for the Air Force station to be in Kongswinger. The battle has stood between Mågerøy and Kongswinger, as so many times before. The economic cost differences between Mågerøy and Kongswinger in terms of development have been minimal. But we all see that the sale of property on Mågerøy would have given the state much more money than the sale of the same property in Kongswinger. It also seems irrelevant to the majority in this case that regional policy considerations should have been taken into account. The differences between the Mågerø/Tønsberg area and Kongswinger are quite large. Only the net migration to these two areas shows the ratio of 1:4 in Mågerøs favor, and it seems that it is quite easy to get new jobs to the Mågerø area. I therefore allow myself to stress the seriousness of the situation for Kongswinger. They lose jobs, competences and important resources from their local environment. It is now important to initiate the use of conversion agents in this area, which already have very little relocation and very few new jobs to offer. When Vardåsen is now laid down, the building mass must be used for something else, and the plans for what they are to be used for must be started immediately. Both Kongswinger and the district around it needs it. Problems relating to the operation of the NATO radar until 2010 may not prevent the use of the buildings in question from making any sense. Haslemoen is important in defence and as a resource in the Våler municipality. That the majority of the committee assumes that the field service is continued on Haslemoen until further notice is good. And it's important that the level of activity is kept up by the defense, too, so that we don't experience a carnage, a strumping, of Haslemoen, without political decisions in the Stortinget. Every now and then, one could almost wish that the defense was as creative at Haslemoen as they were at Mågerø. Even after the government had proposed that Mågerø be laid down, they found out that they would spend about 60 million. kr for initial investment there. And it would be okay if they used the same economic creativity at Haslemoen!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e627	With all the local posts, one does not get away from the defence's regional policy role. The defence reform is soon a fact, and that there are many opinions about what will be a good defense in the future, one must not be surprised – it is politically recognizable. I live in a district where within a distance of 15 km three camps are laid down: Hvalsmoen, Eggemoen and Helgelandsmoen. Many are affected, and 600-700 jobs are closed. Many of those affected live in my municipality of Jevnaker. Taking one with the ring effects resulting from the decay of three camps, one can expect an activity drop in the area of about 5 pst. It's very much, and of course becomes a challenge for the municipalities and the business community. It is suggested to be able to provide means of conversion to the communities most affected. That's good. The colossal property stock also needs to find a sensible use, at a reasonable price. In Hønefoss, in the municipality of Ringerijke, there is a college that I believe must be able to use in a conversion package, both expansion and improvements must be part of the assessments. Parts of the property stock of the Defence must be capable of being used for reasonable housing for both students and others who are in an establishment phase. I take it for granted that the municipalities in my area will soon have a conversion plan ready to take advantage of the means of conversion. In this context, I hope that it is not those who scream the loudest, who get first and foremost, but that it will be a plan to be able to provide means of conversion to the most affected municipalities. The defense's conversion is marked, and it is therefore important to look ahead and see what such a strong conversion can trigger by new possibilities. I am also very pleased that the HV-school at Dombås will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e644	The Christian People's Party wants a stronger national defence than it's being added to the proposition. Public defence and universal protection must be a fundamental pillar of defence policy, not professional defence. It is therefore good that there is no upsurge in cropping the country's defence capabilities in so far as the Government has proposed, but, on the other hand, the majority of the Tronder Brigade, greater Home Security Force, all the HV districts, MTBs and coastal fortresses with mobilization status. With the government's proposals, we would be practically without coastal defence. This has now been averted. The centre has a much higher priority in the north than the government. This is where the main challenges for national defence lie, with the resources and potential for conflict in marine areas and the strategic importance of the area. From the Barents Sea you can reach targets on the entire northern hemisphere. The setting is better than the proposition, but it is incomprehensible and alarming that the Right Party and the Workers' Party go in to add the headquarters to Yåttå and not to Retan, as among others. is recommended unanimously by the Gade Committee. While Jåttå is almost on a flank, Retan is slightly south of the midpoint of our total sovereignty area. All key defence and security policy criteria indicate that the headquarters should be added to Retan. It provides proximity to likely areas of crisis and operation. It highlights Norway’s ability and willingness to focus nationally on the north areas towards NATO and other actors. Faithfulness to address problems in the north is an important and constructive contribution to European security and stability and thus also in the interests of NATO. A clear distinction between the national command structure and the allied gives Norway greater flexibility with regard to crisis management in relation to Russia, cf. the episode with ‘Cursk’. Retan provides lower investments. Russian language usage and attitudes are alarming. Norway is criticized for its behaviour in the fisheries protection zone around Svalbard. And this week, Secretary of State Espen Barth Eide stood up and warned of an ever cooler relationship between small Norway and the eastern Great Act Neighborhood. The potential for crises of a security nature in the north is high. A possible episode may involve purely national conditions that do not affect NATO, or there may be conditions in which NATO will not involve itself. Nor should we ignore the fact that nations other than Russia will be able to challenge Norway both in terms of security policy and resource policy in the future. The location of the headquarters should be assessed according to our national needs and the signal power location. However, it appears that Reitan is losing despite strong recommendations. Then the big challenge is that the search light is not diverted away from the national interests that we find particularly many of in the northern regions. Moreover, the adoption of the defence plan must be conditional on full account coverage, not only today, but also through the foreseeable framework of the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e678	The most important thing to do today's major changes is to make a defence concept that is not out of date. Then there must be consistency between objectives and means, and the need for defence must be balanced against other needs. For many years the majority has had a bag and bag strategy, where investments and operations have come into random budgetary compromises and only slightly. And so it will continue. Here lies the large, unexplored economic bombs, which, despite the intention of the majority to spend up to $30 billion a year, will exceed that. At least I'm not very surprised by the Progress Party, which doesn't reveal how much this costs. Well, they've at least realized that this problem is not related. The fight for the crowns is not just inside the defense, but it stands between money for the defense and money for school, care and the environment. Is there anything we can save on? Yeah, that's what SV means. Peacemaking and efforts to create stability and to remove threats must have a completely different role in the future. Peacekeeping and peace-building operations are only part of this. Our responsibility for this must be dealt with in Nordic cooperation. That this requires exercises of a different character than they are now is not hard to understand. But that is not an argument for having a field of fire in the East. This is the result of the continuing old-fashioned thinking that it is not possible to cooperate — sailing with a peaceful neighbour like Sweden. It is nearly 100 years since 1905, and it has been more than ten years since the Wall fell! And in all the missions we're going to have outside the country, we have to cooperate with our neighbors. Here, money can be saved, and even her – I am absolutely convinced – that there will be better exercises of it. In addition, SV has a proposal that we will drop the Dörningmoen at Elverum. It's for spatial reasons, and we want to move the activity and assemble it on the Haslemo. Defence is not and should not be district policy. That may be the area where there should be least district policy. But in those cases where both defence and economic are equal, one can take such considerations into account. And in a case where it's about the Air Force Stations Gråkalden, Mågerø and Kongswinger, the calculations have flowed through the air. And in the setting, as I see it, there's not a single word in the majority's reasoning about why they choose one over the other. Therefore, SV finds it natural to support the Centre's deferral proposal and to have it investigated, so that we get the numbers on the table, and can make a real decision based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e693	Regarding the last post, I would like to remind the representative Karin Ander-sen that SV was founded through its opposition to the defence and security policy in Norway. SV is without credibility in all questions that have to do with the defence of our country! Whether this will be a good day for the Defense remains to be seen. There's a lot of good in the proposition, but it's impossible to conceal that it's worrying that there's so much discussion about whether the structure that's being adopted is being met with the corresponding amount of money. The Minister of Defence said in his speech earlier that preventing a new April 9th is not between 28.5 milliards of kroner and 29.5 billion kroner. In isolation, it's true, assuming that it's NOK 28.5 billion or NOK 29.5 billion, that there's consistency between the structure and the amount of money. As a former member of the Defence Committee, I would also like to say, to the extent that a farmer from Hedmark can be credible in such matters, that no one in the Right does not understand the meaning of our northern regions. On the contrary, maybe you get even more understanding because it's so far away from what's your own growth. And I have to say that I don't think it serves either the defense or the interests of the northern regions to pretend that there is less commitment and less activity around the new Retan District Command, even though, after a total assessment, we find that the Allied headquarters can best be located at Yåttå. I pay particular attention to the fact that the maritime operational element is so strongly guarded in connection with the Northern Norway sub-command. In addition to that, I have to put in a few words about the significance of the power collection we have of the Army in Hedmark County. And I want to say on behalf of the state – despite the resistance that is sometimes inflated against parts of the defence business – that the vast majority of the Hedmark population are very positive to the defence as an institution, and we want the defence personnel and their families to be welcomed into the state. And in that context, it's pretty impossible when the resistance to the region field continues apparently with undegraded force. The establishment of the region field is the very reason why we get this collection. The region field is a prerequisite for training the teams that we are going to send out – hopefully not, but if necessary – in sharp operations. And it becomes absolutely impossible to argue for all the good of the Defense and not be willing to take the positive in the region field at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e716	In the morning's meeting, a number of allegations were made about the necessary financial framework for our future defence. Representatives of the Right, inter alia: The previous speaker argued that the department should have sent a letter to the parliamentary leaders and that the letter shows that the structure that is now being adopted is underfunded by nearly DKK 1⁄2 billion per year. years. Such a letter is unknown to the parliamentary leaders of the central parties. In the early days, the right has presented a proposal for a planning framework of DKK 118 billion for the next four years, i.e. DKK 29.5 billion per year. which seemed well adapted to the content of the alleged letter to parliamentary leaders. However, in the position on page 47, the Right – together with the Advance Party – operates with a need for an annual framework increase of SEK 3.5 billion in addition to the Government’s proposal of DKK 28 billion per year. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party will fund international operations and frigates – a total of DKK 2.5 billion a year – through additional appropriations. That is, the two parties thought that there was a total need of NOK 6 billion per year more than what the government has proposed. It is in stark contrast to the modest increase of SEK 1.5 billion per year that is now contained in the Hierre's concrete proposals. And it is striking to note that the Right, together with the Advance Party and not least the Workers' Party, has strongly criticised the centre parties for alleged underfinancing in their arrangement. Subject to the fact that the Government's proposed annual framework of NOK 28 billion is sufficient to finance the proposal, I will continue to claim that our proposal of NOK 29 billion per year. year, or $116 billion in the four-year period, will be enough to finance the structure that is now being adopted. If the government's number is wrong, of course, this error has also been propagated in our arrangement. I received an informal note from the Minister of Defence at the end of this morning's meeting. It shows a calculation of the additional costs with changes in the structure in relation to the Government's arrangements. The note shows an uncovered amount of 1,311 million. kr. After increasing the annual framework to NOK 29 billion that we have done because of the lack of majority voting for our cut proposals, that means that we may seem to be facing a deficit of SEK 311 million. kr. It is a modest amount in relation to the total defence budget, and not least in relation to the strong claims of a large under-financing of our approach made earlier in the debate. Now, therefore, the slaughter of our scheme – including the economic one – must cease when we see what mistakes other parties have made in their calculations. The Minister of Defence, too, should dampen his use of words towards the central parties as long as the ministry's own figures crack as we have seen in this matter, and as long as there have been so many problems in getting figures out of the ministry at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e733	After a long day's debate, it may not be very popular to speak, but since the defence has such an impact on the whole country, it is natural that there will be some greetings at home. Actually, our voters expect that. The centre party is very pleased that the Home Guard will retain 83 000 soldiers, not least because of the importance of having a national defence. It's extremely important that most people know and are familiar with the Defense. The defence will is absolutely fundamental and the Central Party believes it is best served by the duty of protection and the Home Office, and that this is anchored in the will of the people. The advantage of home security is that there is such a thing as saying everywhere. It is positive that 18 HV districts are maintained, and that means enormously much both for the defence will and the places that house these institutions. As an alien, I am very pleased that the Home Security School at Dombås is being maintained. A well-functioning and well-kept school is of great importance, not only for Home Affairs but also for the local environment in relation to activity and competence. The upland bench was at the Heimeverkskolan in January of this year, and for my own part I want to say that I was impressed. Top modern teaching equipment with the latest new in training methodology with multimedia technology solutions. It made an impression. I am also impressed by what the Dovre Youth Forum has done in this matter. Young people, such as young people I've been to the Heimeverkskolan, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been to, I've been It's good for democracy that young people care so much. Finally, a little bit about the Defence Music Corps. It is not understood whether Search Wars Norway should not afford to maintain the traditional music villages that mean so much to the environment in Defence, and not least to cultural activities in surrounding environments. The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party say that when the Defence must undergo such extensive reorganisation, the structure of the Defence Music Corps must also be examined. This will be slightly compared to the savings potential by bringing down some of the corps. That is marginal, not least in relation to the overall framework approaching NOK 30 billion. I believe that all the Corps should be maintained, but support, if appropriate, the proposals of the Centre Parties for any transfer to the Ministry of Culture. I see that as the second best. I also record that the government party is now doing partially with the proposal that is on our desks today. Finally. Since this is the last post I keep about the defense in this room, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to attend the Defence College's chief course. It was incredibly instructive and useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e756	Some send their greetings home, and others send their greetings from home. I must, because of the advice I have received from my own county group, where also professional soldiers are strongly represented, give a signal that I am going to vote for Yåttå as headquarters. There is no doubt that the need for constant military presence is greatest in the north, and therefore I was long in doubt. I was really most inclined to vote for Reitan, but then it is that our defence in peacetime, besides having missions in the form of surveillance and intervention in relation to frontier violations and illegal activity in our economic zone, must also maintain close contact with NATO which is to be our security in the event of war. We cannot decide where in Norway NATO should have its headquarters. For me, this was crucial. I believe that the close contact between Norway and NATO in a co-location on Jåttå is important – not so much in relation to the defence's tasks in peacetime, but in relation to NATO's preparedness here in case of dissatisfaction. That the advice of the military is contradictory would indicate that the question of locating as much attention as there is so much attention around is not really crucial to defence. However, the willingness of the Grand Duchy to follow up the decisions taken here this evening through the annual budgetary procedures is crucial. I don't think the preparedness in the north will be weakened by the decisions taken here tonight, provided that both the Navy and the Air Force get the material upgrade they need, and that the active presence of operational crews is not impaired. The professional-military challenges of being a coastal nation with our geographical location have been exhaustively described by a large number of speakers before me today, but one aspect that no one has affected is the importance of the maritime competence that lies in our merchant fleet for our ability to meet times of dissatisfaction. Norwegian seafarers have, through two world wars, played a vital role in keeping open the supply lines we depend on. This is an invaluable reserve force for Norway, but for which this increase does not seem to understand the importance. It maintains our capacity for maritime coastal management by taking the necessary steps to secure a core group of Norwegian seafarers. It is not in the decisions to be taken here tonight but in the decisions to be taken on the last day of this session of the Grand Duchy, on 15 June. Finally, it is also a cultural policy aspect in relation to the proposition that lies here, with two of the Defence Corps being proposed. Now it is true that there are no trumpets to defend Norway — it has been a long time since the battle of Jericho — but the cultural policy importance of maintaining the corps is nevertheless important for the areas affected. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 41, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e769	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e772	Last week it became clear that the Workers' Party was in favour of increased resources for the Defence and through the continuation of the MTB weapon. In the setting we are dealing with today, there is a unanimous committee that endorses this, and that goes in order for the upgraded Hauk class to continue until 2015, or until the class can be replaced by the Shield class. The Committee also assumes that five new MTBs of the Skjold class are built, starting in 2003 and phase-in phase-in. Oil protection is the only base in North Norway that is specially built for the MTBs and has docks, dry docks, warehouses, connecting centres and workshops in a secure mountain facility. The base is also the only, in addition to Bergen, approved by the United States for the carriage of ‘all types’ of marine vessels. This debate naturally attaches great interest to the various proposals that have been promoted and to what the various parties and representatives will vote on this evening. The working party will probably vote in favour of an alternative proposal for X, which is referred to in paragraph 2: ‘Olav protection is continued as base under Ramsund War Station.’ It can then immediately seem that the Labour Party's policy is that there should no longer be any activity on Olavswert. Here there is a need for clarification from the Minister of Defence. I would therefore like to ask the following questions, which I hope he can give a positive answer to: Since it is part of the overall defence of the Workers' Party, too, to continue with the MTBs, will not a logical consequence of this be that there will still be activity, albeit with reduced staffing, on the Olav protection in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e788	I agree that we must have a timely defence. What characterises the debate today is that there are several options and models to achieve this. The size has to make a choice. I'm going to use my speaking time to talk about the HVUB training, or the Heimevern's commanding training at Kvenvikmoen in Finnmark. Training has been a success for the three years it has existed as a pilot project. It is easy to recruit candidates in general, and especially from the Sami environments. The proportion of girls is also high. In fact, there is strong competition for places. The education has created an interest in the Home Office and the Defence. It is cost-effective places, i.e. low cost per person Trained student. The majority of the Stortinge today are going to move the education to the garrison in Porsanger. I think it's a shame. I think it's a wrong choice. The education has been there before. It did not work because of a lack of recruitment. There might be a lot of explanations for that. One explanation is probably the population structure and the coverage. Another option is that the education at Kvenvikmoen today cooperates with the Finnish Higher Education College. Today, it may be good that education is a pilot project. It should be able to provide room for assessment of training in the future. The project shall be evaluated. The choices made today will also need to be evaluated, and if possible, the course needs to be corrected. There is a need for an attractive training for Home Affairs Officers also in Finnmark and North Norway as a basis for recruitment to the Defence Agency. It's repeated several times today. The womanvikmo is the one who manages to succeed in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e800	No explanation for the marine music, I read as a headline in Tønsberg Blade recently. It's like saving the money and letting the valley go, I thought. Here we are talking today about tens of billions of dollars, and then a couple of the best music towns we have in our country are going to be put down in this context. The Christian People's Party will maintain all of the Defence Music Corps. It should be possible to value the seven corps as the cultural institutions they are, and at the same time see the benefits of the Defense. Royal Norwegian Marines Music Corps in Horten is the company that performs most of the defence missions. Norway is a maritime nation. The Corps represents long traditions in the old marine town of Horten, from 1851. It is also the only professional orchestra in Westfold, and the marine music has been called the jewel in the crown itself among military corps. Cultural life in Vestfold has enjoyed marine music as an intermediary, an inspiration and a partner. Here it's about traditions. They might be easier to break down than to build up. What these corps stand for gives good ringing effects to the community around them. This is where the military and civil communities meet indiscriminately. The celebrations the marine music gives are worth taking care of. They provide joy and benefit children and adults — at concerts, in schools or in military context. They also give good publicity to the Defense, and when Horten is strengthened as a training city for the Defense, it's also natural that the Marine Music in Horten continues. In addition, I would like to point out that when the Crown Prince marries his fiancée on 25 August, it becomes the notes from among others. Marine music. I think it will help with the exercises until then that the Corps does not get the death blow today. We need all seven music spots in the defense. They represent the link between military and civil society. They are good to have when the Defense has ceremonies and staunch visits, but they also have a cultural obligation to civil culture. As a Vestfold representative, I am pleased that the Air Force operations on Mågerø will also continue after this day. I know there has been a debate about the location of the ARS in South Norway, and the centre parties have asked for a new investigation. For my part, I do not see the need for even more figures in connection with this and I am sure that Mågerø will be the best option, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e815	The defence needs a significant conversion. The defence needs a balance between investment funds and operational funds. Minister of Defence Godal emphasised this strongly in his speech and indicated that many other countries — including our great neighbour in the east — are undergoing major changes. The starting point for the conversion is and must be the need we have in Norway for a national defence, and what obligations we should assume in a continued active commitment to peace-building and peace-keeping activities through UN-approved international operations. Norway is far, much of the country is north. Our sea areas are six to seven times as large as the land areas, and 60 pst. of the sea areas is located north of Tromsø. Norwegian presence at Svalbard and in the Barents Sea is necessary for territorial, sovereignty and security reasons. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the other centre parties, places the decisive emphasis on increased presence in the northern regions. I represent Troms and live in the defence city of Harstad, and it is the military, defence and security arguments that have been crucial for me, as for the Christian People's Party, in this matter. Large parts of the defense are located in North Norway, and this makes it natural to locate the joint operating headquarters of Reitan at Bodø. Increased military presence in North Norway would also be ensured by bringing together more of the Air Force activity around Bardufoss air station. The marine areas are our largest area and our biggest challenge. I am pleased that the Marine is proposed to be strengthened in line with the Government's proposals, including: by maintaining the MTBs and adding the base to Olavsværr in Tromsø. The defense has its centre of gravity in North Norway. The defence will need to recruit a command from the national unit. Harstad has over 100 years of tradition of training command by BSIN. In the end, as strongly as I can – like the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party – I must ask the Government to consider maintaining a commanding school in North Norway, in particular for the recruitment of the commanding profession from this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e830	Before the awe takes over, I just want to be allowed to bring up proposal No. 54, on behalf of the Defence Committee. So we went to XXIII in the setting, which deals with the closure of technical workshops. Now it is quite likely that some of the activities will be maintained in places where the Romans formally shut down technical workshops. I guess that means making adjustments as well as it may seem possible to read the proposition, where operations are carried on. I think of it as logical, and I would like it confirmed by the Council of State. So a little bit about the future: the Committee is under the heading. 8 in its comments underlined the importance of relative price increases in defence equipment much more than the overall price increase. The Committee agrees that there will be implications for the future development of defence budgets. The Committee points out that ‘this provides a basis for significant uncertainties that have a significant impact on defence planning’. The Committee also points out that if we are not able to keep the balance between expenditure and the level of ambition involved, we may have to choose further reductions. This would then ‘impossible result in the withdrawal of all weapons and the need to re-assess the role and tasks of the defence’. In that case, it will be a very dramatic development. In addition, it says: ‘The Committee would strongly stress that such developments would put Norway in a state of credible sovereignty and the ability to reverse even less armed estimates. The Committee would therefore strongly warn against such developments.» I see this as a sign that there is an overall committee that points out that we need to have an economic foundation for what you want more, and that in plain text does not mean special opportunities to cut down on the war structure. This will mean that the entire capacity disappears. It will be a very dramatic development. In the same chapter, there is an overall committee that points out that Norway needs to continuously update its material and its capacities, to phase in new UAVs as part of NATO’s development of DCI capacitors, to acquire tankers within a multinational framework and to work for predictable access to strategic maritime transport, while at the same time asking for combat helicopters to be acquired and evaluated, and of course also says: ‘The Committee will also underline the need for the Defence in the near future, in the course of 2001, to decide on the way in which the Armed Forces Act is to be replaced’. This is a big challenge. I would like to know the views of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e860	The representative Røsjorde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e863	I just want to take the floor now at the end of the debate to say a little bit about the planning framework and the economy around it, which also Restad was in the middle of it. The important thing for us in the Right is the structure. We're going to pay for the structure that we're going to enter, cost. During the march, we've been as good as we can, trying to calculate what this is, and it certainly hasn't been easy at all. It has been quite difficult to figure out the exact costs of the different elements, and they have varied over time. Therefore, the difference between what is said in our remarks, and what we have proposed today. Today's proposal is based on an estimate that we got from the Government yesterday, which shows that the structure that is judged to be adopted today is going to cost NOK 29.5 billion, that is. 118 billion over four years. So let's think about it. That's the best we can do. We will when we come to voting, primarily go in for it, but we will subsidized support offered at NOK 116 billion from the middle part, because we want to help establish a floor, so that the defense does not re-establish this completely in the basement. Of course, planning frameworks are not mandatory. There is a guideline that those who are going to create a budget for the next year can use if they're being tricked. But it doesn't require anyone. So what's important is that we have to figure out what it costs, and then the parties have to come together to try to negotiate a binding agreement, where they commit themselves to comply with this over the next four years. That's only how we can establish the courtesy of the defense, which everyone says they're concerned about. We'll try. I hope we're closed with this. I hope that we can get the cost of talking relatively quickly, and that the parties will extend to make a deal, because I think the advantage has a lot to say. If some people have to go down and others have to go up, they should do it in order to get custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e876	In the year 2000, Bardufoss was decommissioned as an aerodrome. Thus, all departments, including air protection, had to be moved from the air station. When the Ministry of Defence later drafted St.prp. No 45, Bardufoss airstation was restored, without the airstation coming in. This may have led to the misconception that today there is no air protection department with NASAMS missile air protection at Bardufoss. Today there are NASAMS air-protection batteries at Bardufoss Main Air Station, Bodø Main Air Station and Ørland Main Air Station. Moving the NASAMS battery on Bardufoss to one of the other main aviation stations will result in a net savings of five years. The relocation leads to additional expenditure in the form of renovation, renovation and new infrastructure. Participation in Troms exercises will result in a cost of between 5 and 7 million for Bodø and Ørland. kr per. Exercise, cf. last year's exercises. Allied departments and the Army of Troms have a great need to practice and train regularly with NASAMS air protection departments. It is only in North Norway – Troms – that allied departments train and regularly practice in large associations. It will be a very unfortunate and harmful situation for both the Norwegian army and our allies not to train with missile systems like NASAMS. Bodø trains in defense of an air station, Ørland trains in defense of an air station. It's only Bardufoss who trains their own forces, allied planes and ground forces, as well as a plane station. It has spread the view that, in the final phase, there was considerable uncertainty about the status of NASAMS missile battery on Bardufoss. If the decision to move NASAMS missile battery from Bardufoss was taken on an uncertain or incorrect basis, it would be very unfortunate for the credibility of our political work here in the house. I therefore believe it would be very wise if the President of the People's Party, who supports the Government and the Workers' Party, indicated that he and the Progress Party are opposed to moving, until a complete clarification of the situation of NASAM's missile battery at Bardufoss.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e893	Today's defence debate is a major and important debate for our future defence system and for our defence strategy. Result of the submitted St.prp. No 45 may be summed up as follows: ‘The sorrow and joy they walk together.’ The centre party is concerned about the preparedness of the future defence, especially as regards the number of people under protection and the presence in our northern regions. We are pleased that the role of Homeland Protection has been strengthened in relation to the Government's proposal and believe that this is very important in relation to a popular defence structure and in relation to the presence and importance of Defence in all parts of the country, including with regard to tasks that the Defence is involved in in peacekeeping, and that give the Defence high status and legitimacy of civil society. As a representative of Hedmark, I have to be allowed to enter a part of the setting that concerns this particular county. I am pleased that the Swedish Defence Agency is staying at Hamar, and I am also glad that it has been implemented so that Østerdal garrison will consist of both Haslemoen, Terningmoen and Rena clay, and that Haslemoen will not be closed down. It must be entirely right to use the resource represented by Haslemoen, with its building mass and its planned areas for military operations. Haslemoen also has professional resources that should be exploitable further, and preferably in conjunction with other and civil activities that are close to Haslemoen. The Central Party wants the Government to ensure that the issue of the location of the ARS in South Norway is further investigated. I had hoped that such a proposal would have been accepted, but unfortunately it does not look like this. That would have been right, not least on the basis of the cracking figures and calculations that have been reversed in the case of air defence stations. In the case of HV, I would like to point out the joy of locating HV-04 to Kongswinger Fortress. Kongswinger Fortress is a defence facility that has currently had defence activity, and it should also be in the future at that facility. Kongswinger Fortress is also a cultural gem, and the defense can hardly present itself better than at this facility. It is also desirable that the commanding instruction of the HV can be conducted at this site and, at the request of the centre party, the activity and size of the HV, such an offer will be required at Kongswinger Fortress. Finally, I have to go into the prestige project Regionfelt Eastland. I understand from the vote that for the majority this is a project that should not be discussed. However, when, overall, the resources are very limited for the defence both today and in the foreseeable future, it should be highly topical and responsible to look into this establishment. The central party wants the Government to ensure that works relating to the Eastern Region of the region will be carried out until the final decision on the issue of noise concession has been taken and a new complete cost proposal has been submitted. The costs of the Eastern Region will be of such a size both environmentally, in relation to the local population and activities and, last but not least, in relation to the defence's own economy that everything suggests that a thorough assessment must be carried out before moving on to this project. And there are alternatives, if you just want to see them and take care of those aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e908	As you hear, there has been a biological warfare in the committee, and the cooling bacilli have flourished among the representatives! In my main post today, I devoted a great deal of time to the proposal of integrated management. I said that I was amazed at the centre parties, and that they did not support their members in the Defence Policy Committee, which the Bondevik government in its time reduced. What is perhaps even more eye-catching is that both the Left and the Center parties today are involved in decisions that are in conflict with their own major elections programme. In fact, the programmes I refer to are the ones they are going to choose now for the autumn, but they could already have fulfilled two of their electoral commitments – two of their programme promises by agreeing with the Workers' Party on integrated management today. This is amazing. Sometimes it is that politics and tactics do not jump, and we see that as a result of this debate. The obligation of protection has also been a topic with which the centre parties have gone high in this debate. Then it's also interesting to read the Christian People's Party program for the election period that we're now going into, where they say, among other things. that ‘the obligation of protection is adjusted to the needs of the defence’, as they have opposed it, and have opposed it in this debate. Perhaps these three parties should read their own programs before they enter into a debate in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e917	It's exciting now when the last committee is done with its donations, to be able to follow a debate most of a day, and it's been exciting to follow this debate. The leader of the committee, Røsjorde, started freshly by depicting how the centre party intended to finance, and the Christian People's Party would then have to take up the collection. It's not a negative thing to pick up collections – it has a good deal of principle in it. Because it's easy to get money into a collection, you have to trust those who give, that the money is well administered, and that you have a clean and proper accounting. It has been criticised by the Centre for accounting, but the debate has shown that others also have certain problems with figures. I have to say that, when one has followed calculations that have been in relation to defence facilities over ten years, in relation to restructurings, and in view of the result afterwards, it seemed that there was a need for a little more humility from both the Progress Party and the Labour Party in relation to it. From the point of view of the debate, it seems to me that everyone has had some success, and there is no doubt about the thorough work that the centre has done, that there are many things that have been passed. But the government also gets support, alternately from the Right and the Advance Party, and sometimes also from the Center. I have two questions for the Council of State. It's very interesting that there's one proposal that came from the Labour Party during the debate, and it's in relation to a cultural policy case, that's the Corps. It's a pleasure. But both Eastfold and Agder are now sold in the media, and it says on Text-TV as a decision, that these corps should be transferred. As I read the proposal, it says ‘assess’. But since the representatives – to whom I would like to congratulate – of the Workers' Party, who have put forward the proposal, have presented it as if these corps are now to last, I ask the Council of State to also confirm here that it is the intention of that proposal, as it is sold in that way to the local media. I hope that he has made his mark now and come back. I must otherwise admire the Council of State. He has been sitting all the time and followed closely today, and he has also got the right a good deal, even though he has got some criticism as well. In conclusion, the Evjemo seems to face its death. There they are set to take the defeat and bite their teeth together and get to something. The representative, Brørby, was also involved in the process of conversion. There are already companies that are interested in establishing themselves in some of the locals. Will the Council of State go in quickly, accept a reasonable transfer of local resources and come with means of conversion, so that pessimism is not allowed to take over and people move out until they are able to start new things? I also asked the council to comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e933	The debate has focused on many allegations about different balances. Who shall listen to what different computations and meanings of defence shall be a focus on, etc. I am at least pleased that the Progress Party has, for no other reason than a national defence, unanimously voted in favour of Brigade 12, and not least for the establishment of HV training at Værnes. It's in this area that I'm a little bit surprised. I have listened to the representative Bent Høye from the Right earlier today, who put great emphasis on the defence chief's strongly expressed priorities regarding Jåttå and Reitan. With regard to Guards in this context, the Defence Manager, following an overall assessment of the future defence, has found it most cost-effective to bring together the HV training at Værnes. He has also assessed it there that a collection of HV training at Værnes is the best solution for the total defence of Norway. The Director-General for the Protection of Home Affairs has concluded that Værnes is the right place to be located on the basis of professional and operational criteria and the National Council for the Protection of Home Affairs, a broad body of society, has, after careful analysis, taken the following decisions: that HV training must be brought together and that the most appropriate place is at the Værnes. So these four general agencies that have the primary responsibility for optimising the defence within a given framework are all in favour of gathering the Guards. Then I ask myself the question: why doesn't the Right, as the only party, listen to these instances? The only area where they do it is relative to Jåttå and Reitan. Maybe that's a little bit about the right. The guards are also our main receiving station for allied reinforcements. Here and in the area around are significant American stocks of materials and equipment for use in war situations. The guards shall receive, equip and deploy the U.S. force NALMEB. The air force in this crisis force represents one to five times our own future Norwegian air force, the national forces make up half of our future army, there are 10,000 men coming to the Guards, and it requires a professional receiver. So it doesn't seem to be the right priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e942	Through a long day of defense towards tonight's vote, it has been clarified that the most important thing is to ask what kind of defense we need in the future, and not how much defense we can get for the money we have chosen to put in the moneybook. When so many have been principled, I allow myself to be provincial – in accordance with many previous speakers who have made three-minute speeches. Major changes are taking place as a result of the decisions we take tonight, which will affect many people and communities. In all the changes that are adopted with consequences for Buskerud, it is the Kongsberg area that becomes a sort of winner. The Heistadmoen takes up activities to a certain extent to compensate for what is being deprived of it today. So, despite the specialization and the construction that has happened with the Telemark battalion, a lot is being removed, not least by the telemark battalion being moved, as it seems now. The construction of MTBs is also important. It is important for our responsibility for major coastal regions and for marine areas, but it is also important in terms of technology and skills development in the Kongsberg industry, as these are important components of equipment and navigation. But today's decisions are dramatic for Ål and Torpo, and for the Ringeriks region. These closures will mean a great deal of need for means of conversion, and I assume that this will be met by concrete action on the individual areas facing problems due to the closure of large jobs. Finally, I would also like to express my view that it is incomprehensible that the cultural effects of a positive nature to which the military corps contribute in Halden and Kristiansand are to be deleted in order to save money. We don't save a lot of dollars here, but we're depleting the culture. The proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party should therefore have broad support, in order to secure their incorporated place in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e956	In the years I've been on the Storting, it's the first time a debate on the Defense has been shown so much interest and gathered so many speakers. I think this is very welcome. I want to join the atoning post that the representative Lilletun made recently, and I can agree with both the collection and other charitable and voluntary measures to strengthen the economy in both this and the hint. Then it almost just becomes a tiny worm in the desire that Lilletun is in the majority that will add 24 pst. VAT on that type of income. I have to say a few more words about the region field. On behalf of Hamar Arbeiderblad, the Swedish Defence Building Service in 1999 made a calculation showing that only transport and service days, with the crews at that time, would amount to 60 million. kr. I therefore conclude that not only for reasons of efficiency for the training of the crews, but also for economic reasons, it is very central to establish the region. Otherwise, this is within a concept that is good for the Defense, also very good for Hedmark. With the exception of a rather incomprehensible decision to move the ARS to Mågerø – it would be difficult to understand if any other NATO countries would put that kind of installation unprotected in the sea gap – we have got most of what we want, from the Swedish National Defence Agency on Hamar to HV 04 on Kongswinger and the establishment of a training and competence centre for Army fighting weapons by 31 December 2004. I would like to stress that the fighting weapon will be made up of the Infantry, the Cavalry, the Artillery and the Ingenieur weapon under the direction of a joint weapons inspector, the fighter inspector. The Committee assumes that the Battle Inspectorate is located in Rena clay. So the majority of the committee, all except the Workers' Party, says that it is ‘foreseeable that the Field Tillery will continue on Haslemoen until further notice’. So the working party maintains its resistance to maintaining activity on the Haslemo. It is also important that the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre define the new Østerdal garrison as a camp of Rena clay, the Terningmoen and the Haslemoen. From the Right, we do not abandon which weapons the head of defense wants to lay down on the individual camps, but it lies in the concept that Østerdal garrison now consists of the three camps, Rena, Terningmoen and Haslemoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e969	A lot of questions have come up, and I'm not sure if I can answer everyone intelligently in 180 seconds. But at least I get to start. First of all, I can confirm that the Ministry has been set up to review the Roman number decisions to see what is an appropriate solution to the structural decisions that Stortinget otherwise takes. Secondly, I can confirm that we are of course as busy as before to return to Stortinget in an appropriate form in relation to the flight purchases. It goes without saying that even if new aircraft are to be phased in about ten years from now and a little bit more, we need to have a strategy for that at a number of earlier times. It is in the cards that we must clarify some strategic choices already during the coming harvest and at least since the coming spring. We have to deal with this in a suitable way, in some way, also with the Storting. The representative Godal asked about the number material. Yes, we like to contribute with the number material and as quickly as possible. But I have to remind you that behind the Defence Study and the Defence Analysis and the Proposition, there is a great deal of work to get things done as thoroughly and as thoroughly as possible. Calculations depend on the underlying assumptions. I've discovered so much through today's debate that there's a pretty big gap in what the Progress Party, the Right and the Center parties put in a brigade. It's not strange that it's like this, and so it's not just asking, what does it cost? You also have to order to say what you want. That's where I think there's a little bit of a different ambition behind the wording that the majority is behind, for example. With regard to the Trender Brigade, this is, of course, a demanding process. But we are excited about any mission from Stortinget and come back as solidly as possible. The representative Lilletun asked about the proposal made by Tore Nordseth on behalf of the Workers' Party. It is not the Council of State that has put forward that proposal, and I therefore think it is a little unfair to ask me to answer what that proposal means. I read what it says, and I'm not in doubt that it means that those behind it have a strong and burning desire for the music to continue two more places in the country, but you ask the government to evaluate it. It is even a formulation that the Ministry of Culture must be responsible for this. Even though we have pleasant relations in the Government, I am not the one who disposes of the Minister of Culture's budget. I should maybe be a little careful with giving a clarifying answer, at least positive, to that particular question. As for the Eujemo, of course, I am concerned that if today's arrangement goes through, we must address one of the most strongly concerned municipalities in the country, in terms of both conversion measures and the possible rational use of funds, construction and properties that can be used in an offensive industrial strategy. If I know those who live in the municipality, correctly, it is a number of progress towards once the result is there. There I think it can turn out to be as good as it has done with many other municipalities, not least in our Nordic neighbouring country Sweden, where there have been more jobs and not less after the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e984	For the centre parties, increased presence and focus on the north has been important. I believe that the most important contribution we as a nation can make, including in the international context, is to manage and safeguard our interests in the northern regions in a reassuring way. We have large and sometimes controversial sea areas with large fishing resources, where we also have joint management with other countries. We have rich oil and gas resources. We have unexplained border conditions with, among other things, Russia, and we have problems with the protection zones around Svalbard, as well as with large areas that are vulnerable to pollution. These challenges call for both presence and averting critical situations. It will be too late, and it will be perceived both as a provocation and as dramatic, if a crisis situation is met with increased presence in the north. Therefore, permanent presence is necessary and an active relationship with the management of the northern regions is necessary. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government is adding up to such a significant reduction in maritime defence as we have seen. The center's overall priority in relation to the presence in the north makes it quite natural and of course for us to choose Reitan as headquarters. I can understand the Workers' Party's choice of Yåttå on the basis of the down-priority of the Northern Areas as shown by the Workers' Party and the Government, and the focus they have had on international operations. But I find it all the more difficult to understand the Right Priorities. Because the right has set aside exactly the same presence in the north and exactly the same priority of the northern regions as the centre parties have done. When you choose to locate the headquarters of Jåttå, there will be a strong inconsistency with the priorities that the Right does, also with the Maritime Defense and the presence in the North. So a little bit to the decisions that now seem to be taken here today. The Council of State's response to the change of line earlier today, especially to the chair of the Defence Committee, seems to me to have contributed to creating a ambiguity about what will become the government's policy in the future. There are clear structural decisions here today, which mean that the financial framework must be increased beyond what is now the basis of both the Workers' Party and the Government. I do not think the Minister for Defence gave a satisfactory answer as to whether the structure will be followed up with an adequate financial framework. That is why my simple question becomes to the Minister of Defence: does the Minister of Defence, through the annual budget, intend to send the Defence into new uncertainty and a new imbalance between the structure adopted today by the Stortinge and the financial framework proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e995	First to the representative Grethe Fossli, who has been so lovable to read the Christian People's Party program, where she has found, among other things. the following wording: ‘... the duty of protection shall be adjusted to the needs of the defence.’;» Now I might think that the representative Fossli should be primarily concerned with his own programme, but I would like to say that exactly what is in the programme for the coming period, we are doing. It's just that, based on the arrangements of the centre parties, there is a need for far more soldiers than the Workers' Party and the Government needed. So this that the protection obligation is adjusted as necessary in the Defense, will be followed up. What we've seen through the treatment of this proposition is that there has been an important alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The most eye-catching thing is that the two parties are now joining forces on a massive erosion of the protection obligation. We have not received any real answer, either from the Labour Party or the Advance Party, on why they will now leave the principle of the general duty of protection. It is a historic decision the Labour Party will take together with the Advance Party this evening. I want to quote a decision in the central government of the Progress Party as a whole. It was taken on 16 February. The title is "Ap has forgotten the slogan "Never more 9 April"!" ‘The Central Government of the Party of Foreign Ministers notes with great concern that the Stoltenberg Government is making proposals which in effect result in the liquidation of a sound and credible invasion defence and a breach of the principle of a defence obligation. The government’s defence plans also mean that the defence of Norway is given lower priority than possible operations in other countries. The central government of the Progress Party will state that the party must stand firm on the 1945 promise of "Never more than 9 April" and ask the Group to draw up a comprehensive alternative approach to defence policy based on the assumption that Norway is a sound and credible invasion defence based on the general obligation of protection." I am aware of the special power conditions in the Progress Party, but I must nevertheless be allowed to ask the representative Røsjorde how he sees agreement between this decision of the Central Government and the decision to be taken by the Progress Party here later this evening. Then I would like to draw attention to the proposals relating to the Defence Music Corps, and ask that one consider the proposal from the Centre, which has been formulated to ask the Government to consider ‘to transfer parts of the financial responsibility to the Ministry of Culture and/or the County Municipality’. It's very similar to the proposal submitted by Tore Nordseth, but the proposal from Nordseth only applies to two of the Corps. It must then be natural to get such an assessment for all the seven corps. We want to keep all seven corps. But I would suggest that we look at the text of proposal No. 21 before you finally decide what to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1018	Not a single small moth shall fly in the air from the Rygge Main Aviation Station if the Minister of Defense's proposal is implemented in the Stortinget. Of course, the defence needs restructuring and modernisation. It has to be very clear. But who is most competent to make air-strategic assessments – Defense itself or Government? I'm just asking. The closure of a military aircraft operation at one of the country's most central airstations is intimidating all defence friends. An air defence needs training, which has been shown to be very difficult to get at Oslo Civil Airport Gardermoen. Understandably, all civil air traffic will have priority. The primary task of air defence in peacetime is training. Should we also accept in a future crisis situation that only a fraction of our extremely valuable fighter planes and helicopters are in the air in South Norway? The Head of Air Force has proposed in its contribution to the restructuring of Orion aircraft from Andøya to Bodø and the transfer of military operations from Gardermoen to Rygge. It is probably based on good and well-worked investigations in the current circumstances. Doubtful economic analyses, such as: shows that the sale of the military plant on the Gardermoen shall not exceed 259 million sales. When it cost 1,3 billion kroner to build it just a few years ago, it's not credible. Similar economic analyses are also not quality assured in the Government's proposals. It is therefore wrong to decide on questionable economic analyses. We should learn from our mistakes. Errors and detentions have been subsequently identified in the report on the extension of Gardermoen civil airport. Will the Storting again make important decisions based on errors and shortcomings? Now there is more than one major aerodrome in the East. This concerns the future defence of Norway and the air-military preparedness of Norway in its main area. I would like to urge all representatives to make sure that the right decisions are taken in the future defence of the country. I would also like to ask that we do not use Northern Norway's regional policy considerations when it comes to shaping our defence. The Progress Party has its own proposal to continue the 717 and 720 Squadrons on the Back. It is important that the main airfield be maintained with the approximate structure of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1031	I was not allowed to answer a question from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll in my previous three-minute post. She asked about the government's view of Olavsvern. It's in the proposition: ‘Parts of Olavsværm Orlogsstation shall be continued in mobilization status to support submarines if necessary.’ It follows from the proposals to which the Workers' Party is contributing today that, in addition to that, of course, we are receiving a crew and an activity of the Olav protection in relation to the MTB structure. So here it's going to be business, but in what form, we're going to be dealing with when we see the form of the decisions in the final phase. Then it was the representative of Enoxsen's question whether we are going to guarantee the framework over the four-year period. Yes, I said that we are of course prepared to contribute to a scheme that implements the majority decisions in the four-year period. But I have to remind you that the first thing that happened after Secretary of Defense Fjærvoll had presented the previous long-term programme, with bravour, and said zero growth for two years and saw some growth, was that he was a few months after reducing the defence budget by 400-500 million. kr – not because he forgot what he had said or promised, but probably because his fellow Councillors, Restad and Enoxen and others, stood so hard on the overall demands of budgetary policy that Färvoll did not get what he wanted. That's what was the accident, that we were faced with priorities that meant that the Right Party, the Advance Party and, in fact, the Workers' Party had to help and fix up a little bit on the mist that autumn, shortly after the Center Government had presented its proposal for a long-term programme. It says a little bit about the mechanisms that apply in the center parts of these areas, and I'm guessing that that's why the trust of the Right Party and the Advance Party may be a little bit subtle about the ability to follow up on these central areas. We are referred to dealing with these things through the ordinary budgetary procedures, just as the Bondevik government did – not with great luck. I hope we get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1045	I'm not going into the past, but the Workers' Party had a relationship with MTBs before they came into government, as far as I remember. Let us then, as fragile earthly people in a debate that has a deep commitment to defence, perhaps take inwards that there is a very broad mobilisation in this room to do something about the Defense. And now let's not take all the past cynicism into us, when we look at it. That's actually my starting point. I took the word simply to remind the Council of State of a little humility, for those of us who have had difficulty understanding what is actually in the Government's own proposition – we could not read there that it was 37 pst. Which was supposed to be covered by the protection obligation, we couldn't read there without going about what power production it was – we had to work up to the numbers, but we made the best sense. And after taking it in the best possible sense – and actually then had a reasonable dialogue on numbers – we came up with the majority positions that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have voted for, which produce a war and a peace structure. We have then said that we have adjusted along the way because we did not reach the whole point. And that's why the representative of Enoxsen asked the Council of State the following: When you don't get there ideally, do you agree to deliver? And the least you have to wait for the Workers' Party is that you at least agree to deliver and adjust to the reality, which others have also had to do. Because when you adjust to a treatment because you get the reality in your face in the sense that you do not reach your primary positions, you have to do something subsidiary, because for once the Workers' Party has to do something subsidiary. I am aware that the party has a tradition where one has not had to do so, but the challenge of several representatives is whether one is prepared to do so. That's when you create the basis for lifting a defense that we might be familiar with. And I think the Council of State should hear the tone of many representatives – including me. They have a will here. I also have State Council experience. And I'm not going to trust the Council of State what I did when I put in that government -- I'm not going to do that, but I can whisper it to you in the back of the rotunda, you probably have a suspicion -- but the challenge -- and I was a little rude in the shape now, so I'll take the critique of the sea before I get corrected in another way -- is basically: take seriously that someone has adjusted, and, through the President of the Council of State, now follow up, that the Workers' Party must also be able to do it, so that you actually produce what's there. It's a contribution to finding solutions. Yes, by the way, I also have my «mo» – Oscarsborg. I'm not saying any more. That place is gold worth in Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1060	The correction is already given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1063	I have a serious suspicion that this will be a long day's journey to night. Now, luckily, the night is short, so this goes over quickly. The representative Nymo was very anxious about what it would mean to move at NASAMS from Bardufoss, and then he came with a summons to me, and probably then the whole party group. Now I believe that if there are good economic and operational reasons for reconsidering this, I am absolutely convinced – no, I am not, I am very convinced that it will try to find out in the best possible way both the Minister and the Defense themselves. So it was the representative Rise, who had read other people's central government decisions and had concentrated a little less on his own future programming. It's got to be. I think we should be very careful about criticising the Progress Party in defence policy. In fact, we have kept what we have promised all along – and precisely on the basis that Mr. Rise, something free, allowed itself to point out, «Never more than 9 April», and almost ridiculed our policies and the decisions of our central government. We've done what we've done. What's the matter, sir? Rice party done? As Councillor Godal pointed out, one of the first things you did was to use the defence budget, to dissuade it from the structure and the framework you agreed on. And then you start cutting-- cuts and kutter and age. That's it, sir. The Rise Party has contributed. Nor is the Workers' Party a party that should go free from its cuts, because the Workers' Party has not been able to follow this up. And then the result has been as bad as it's been over time. Of course, the defense needs to be modernised and put on, but that's how it costs if you want something, and then at least you have to have your backbone to stand for what you're saying. So have we. What did you do to settle with the Workers' Party? Yes, sir. Rise's party cut 100 million. kr in operation for the Air Force a few weeks after having to add money to the Air Force budget because the aircraft were on the ground. I want to quote a leader in today's business, who repeated several times, 'What kind of nonsense is that?' So the Progress Party has taken seriously, and we have done so in all the years this party has been represented on the Stortinget. I must say, unfortunately, that it does not have so many men. The Rise Party contributed in particular. It has been winged, said something and done something quite different. There is a concept of this which is not particularly parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1082	I'm going to break into the big, overall posts. But it is clear that we are increasingly involved in the economy and what the chairman of the Committee on Defence now had to say, that, without a large advance party, the defence had had to wear down both in the past and, not least in the future, probably had to wear heavily under the economic pressure. This is also what it looks like when you look at the setting today, where at least the center parts add up to a future structure that can be described as a deal for 50 kroner and pay 30 kroner. Only the Progress Party seems to be meeting the economic challenges in the future, and therefore it is polite for me to say a few words about case no. 6 on the agenda. I am pleased to note that all parties support the proposal of the representative Røsjorde, the representative of Width and myself, where we are asking for the creation of a fund for the preservation of fortresses and other military-historical buildings in the future. At least in the future, it will ensure that the responsibility for the costs of operating and maintaining these buildings will remain outside the normal operating costs of the Defence, so that at least it will not be burdensome in the future. I am very pleased that the whole committee is behind this proposal – and in particular to the extent that we have to set up a national fund, as it is established in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1089	I don't know if it will be particularly fruitful to spend time discussing what has happened in the past. I also remember previous leaders of the Defence Committee who saw that it would be possible to make room for far more investment in the economic framework that the Defence had at its disposal than what was seen from the same team after they had entered the government. However, my question to the Minister of Defence instead was justified in the answer given to the chair of the Defence Committee, where it was said by the Minister of Defence that if “a solution had been made to a situation that we felt was economically sustainable and politically valuable, it would have been easier” – that is, easier to make a settlement. I have a great deal of understanding that the annual budget and the overall economic problems to which any government and any increase must relate can, of course, provide the basis for adjustments in the budgets from year to year. But what my more important question is, is whether the starting point is going to be the structure that is being adopted today. And I have every reason to ask for that with the approach that the Minister of Defence himself chose in his response to the chair of the Defence Committee, because if the financial framework does not last from year to year, it is not enough just to adjust them down. Then we would continue to be in a situation where there will be a great imbalance between economy and operation. Then it will, for example: be necessary to look at investments, as the Senter Party took the consequences of a year ago, when we saw that the financial framework did not keep up to the point of investing in frigates. Then we took the consequences and said that we have to postpone frigate investment. It is to the extent that a real political choice can be taken along the way, that some investments must be set aside for a period in order to avoid a lasting imbalance in defence. But today, the Storting House is taking crystal clear decisions on the future structure, and then my question will be re-examined: will the decisions taken here today be followed up, or does the Minister of Defence still believe that the approach adopted today is not ‘economically sustainable and politically valuable’, which he formulated in response to the chair of the Defence Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1101	Lars Rise has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1104	I asked the representative Røsjord a precise question about how he combines the decision he is going to make today with the Workers' Party to discharge the general duty of protection, with the crystal clear decision that I read here from the Central Government of the Advance Party. I wanted to hear his assessment of that very question. Instead of answering that, the representative Røsjord is going into a more general separation of the Christian People's Party for various things he has been irritating himself over the years in connection with our defence policy. I can see that. Røss soils have been in this house for many years and driven by defence policy. I met Røss grounde for the first time in the early 1980s. At that time, I myself was under protective duty, and Røss grounde was already on the Defence Committee. I think, perhaps, at the bottom of the debate, that we can round off giving recognition to the representative Røss grounde for a great effort and for all that he has done for the defense over the almost 20 years he has been here on the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1109	I'll try again. I said in my main post the following: ‘The Government will, of course, base its decisions after today’s debate on the further defence reform.’ It says itself. At the same time, I have expressed some other considerations because it is not entirely clear to me what is the content of majority constellations purely economically. I have submitted some preliminary calculations, presented quite briefly, which assume that you can get this structure to a price label that varies by over NOK 1 billion, depending on what assumptions you apply. So I notice that the center parts have formulated their own committee comment where it says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party and the Central Party believe that if the structure which is now adopted cannot be continued as provided, the Government must submit proposals for the necessary measures for the Grand Duchy.’ That's what's perfectly normal, and we might have to do that if this somehow shouldn't jump. It's not worse than that. That's the way it has to be. I think I can confirm that I'm at least as busy living up to Storting's intentions as my predecessors Färvoll and Löwer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1126	I note that neither the Centre Party nor the Left have any comments in relation to their programme formulations that they are in favour of integrated management. It would be interesting to get some comments from them and hear what it is that has changed from early in our day until now, since they were in favour of an integrated management of the Defence, but now they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1131	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 7. [[See pages 3820 and 3831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1145	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1152	It is an overall committee which will empower the Ministry of Defence to gather all the tasks related to the property management of the Defence Agency in a separate management company directly under the Ministry. This appears to be a reasonable step in a situation where there is a need to make the total economy visible related to the property stock of the defence. In order to achieve real efficiency and rationalisation, it is important to have a full overview of the total resource use related to property management. The establishment of a separate management company will involve a ‘win-win’ situation for the lessor and the lessee. Local departments will be extended more to active business and service bodies for tenants, which hopefully will receive better service. You can also hope for better property management. So efficiency is a crossword, but there must be limits to efficiency as well. When the government is so effective that it pushes decisions to be taken in this room, it goes too far, in my opinion. In today's Business for June 5, we can enjoy a whole page where it is advertised after directors of an entire management team who according to the ad is to perform the development of Norway's largest property business with a total of 6 million square meters. There was so much interesting information in the ad that is not in the proposition, but it still appears to be a highly critical shooting of decisions. Under the heading ‘Management philosophy’, it is called inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The new activity is a knowledge enterprise in which value creation through the competence and motivation of employees is central. Operation shall be based on modern target and quality management models, with a strong customer focus and emphasis on teamwork and interaction in internal processes.» We get... President, I have to protest at the time so far, now it jumped two minutes at this hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1170	The President shall give the representative the time allocated to him – now there are four minutes left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1173	That's 2.41 right there. I would like to complete the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1181	In other words, we get a number of interesting information about important aspects of this company that are not yet established. There's only a small catch by it, namely that the Stortinget has not taken a decision to empower the ministry to establish the holding. It is correctly stated in the ad that the establishment is subject to «The Storting decides St.prp 77», but I believe there is reason to strongly criticise the Government for the procedure. What would you do if the Storting had not moved to deal with the matter? Then perhaps millions of money would have been thrown out of the window. It is obvious that the government has also engaged Hartmark company to recruit the directors. Consequently, a contract is likely to be signed with this company, and it appears to have been carried out extensively both with the development of the organisational model and management philosophy. The defence building service was provided with framework assumptions such as those for management companies, with effect from the 1995 budget year. Through St. Prp. No 45, on which we have spent most of the day, there is a basis for extensive and profound changes in the structure, organisation and geographical location of defence, even though we are now far from the grip of the government proposed in the proposition. The overall objective is to provide a basis for a balance between defence objectives, tasks and access to resources. Central to the changeover is a significant reduction in current operating costs and the release of funds for the necessary modernisation of the material structure. It is absolutely necessary to manage investment in EBA in order to reduce the proposed structure. The objective of reducing operating costs thus requires investment. The defence represents, as demonstrated by the advertisement, the national largest owner of property, with similar capital requirements and commitments. In a situation where substantial cost-effectiveness is required in the defence structure, it is recognised that the EBA sector also requires economic downturn, both in terms of current operations and, in particular, in relation to capital management and planning. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate the professionalisation and clean-up of the roles of owners, managers and users respectively. An overall committee considers that EBA as a whole should be transferred and activated in the accounts of the Defence Building Service as a sub-sidiser. Such activation is deemed necessary to support a future sound financial management of capital, including a stronger focus on the basis for the implementation of investments. Therefore, in the establishment of a new management system, it is central to lay the foundations for and to introduce a housing lease model that provides greater consistency in the calculation and follow-up of current operations and maintenance and provides the basis for tracking the development of the EBA mass over time. In the interests of the specific purpose and role of the Defence Building Service in the defence sector, the form of relations between management and management will be recommended. The Committee agrees with the proposal that the proposed new management model be introduced after the development and reorganisation work has been completed and that a new management model can be assumed as from 1 January 2002. Military departments shall from this point on pay rent for the use of the property of the Defence Property Management but shall not be charged to the capital costs of construction where the investment capital has already been depreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1196	His J. Røsjorde has a speaking time limited to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1199	That's understood, and I hope the time ratio is right this time. I think otherwise it was a good demonstration as Mr. Risk was exposed to, in terms of the gap between objectives and allocated resources. The case rapporteur gave a thorough account of what a joint committee is all about, and there is not much more to add. But there are some things that the committee has stressed, which I think it is important to underline to the Council of State. Now that FBT has such a role, it's very easy to think about itself and maybe to a lesser extent think about the defense, it's a possible pitfall. Here the Ministry has a clear responsibility to follow, so that this new scheme does not in any way become a source of income for the FBT and a cost beyond what is strictly necessary for the Defence. And then it's also important that the Committee says: ‘The Committee will also stress that there is no capital formation on the supplier’s... hand other than that strictly appropriate for the achievement of the main objective.’ That is an important wording. Then it is also important that the head of defence takes care of this in crisis and war and on standby. Furthermore, it is important to point out that it is difficult to find the right balance in such a system when there is only one supplier and one buyer. It also makes great demands on the defence of how to proceed in this. It is not easy to rent out a camp and some buildings of this, if it were to be necessary. So what do you do with the rest of the fence? Here's a bunch of problematic things. And the last and most important thing: what about military combat facilities – how do you deal with this? It is not particularly evident in this document. Here, however, it must be found a suitable way to deal with combat facilities, so that – I kept saying – you do not rent the trench on the day the war is going on. That's reasonable, but there must be some other solutions. With that, I finish my post – time to rest: 2.47.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1217	The President must point out to the last two speakers that when one looks at the task of defence, one must expect surprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1220	Earlier today, we have had a long discussion in a big case with many dimensions. The matter that we are now dealing with has received much less attention, but it also has large dimensions. How many people in Norway know that today the defence is Norway's largest property manager? The entire 1,25 million is the base area, of which 1 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The building mass is 6 million. m2 broken down into 27000 buildings and structures and 4400 dwellings. It's spread all around the country, and it's of varying standard and age. In 1998, the defence accounts showed that a total of NOK 3.6 billion was spent on investments, maintenance, administration, construction and leases. There are some formidable sums of money that are involved in constructions and constructions under the auspices of the Defence Agency. When it comes to such sums and values, we have to be sure that the administration is in the very best way possible. It has been more the rule than the exceptions that when the defence builds or expands or maintains, the bill will eventually be greater than initially calculated. Once I've heard that it was under budget, and then there was a woman, Mrs. Jonge, who was the project manager, if I don't remember completely wrong. When the defence in the future is to concentrate more and be in fewer places, some constructions and installations are to be disposed of, and this work should be done quickly – we have also had this before – but not over the head. I agree that money should be earned, but not at any price, at the very highest price. It has to be possible to take other considerations when such large values are to be disposed of. The defence must be able to take into account the communities of which they have been a part and which will continue without defence. In setting strategies for this work, special aspects such as public law and other societal considerations should be taken into account. Recreational areas are e.g. which is likely to be even more requested when it comes to moving the skilled labour force. In this case, the government fully agrees to organise the property management under the Ministry of Defence as a management company. The Committee agrees with the Government that the form of management will be able to maintain the balance between the sectoral governance needs of the State and Government and the business framework conditions necessary for an activity that is subject to income financing. However, it is important that users' needs are properly addressed and that performances are measurable in price and quality in relation to key figures from other public and private property management. The Committee agrees with the Government that this should become a major enterprise primarily designed to meet the overall needs of defence for these services and which should be an active management and service body for users. When the board is to be set up, I see it as natural that the members of the board have representative competence, as this becomes a large and complex organisation with a business that has features ranging from what is found in pure knowledge organisations to what is typical of a craftsmanship and entrepreneurship. I see it as natural that employees' organisations are represented in the board of directors. It is also natural that in the event of preparedness, crisis or war, this entire independent administrative unit will be transferred to the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1238	In this debate, which counts every minute, the President will make it clear that the speakers who are given the floor hereafter have a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1241	I have to be very short. The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee have said the essentials of the reform itself, it is a parallel to what we see in civil property management: modernisation by bringing together all the tasks of property management of the defence in a management company under the department. In practice, this means that from next year the activities which have so far been shared between the Defence Building Service and the local administrative authorities within the Defence Military Organisation will be brought together in a new management company. I think it would be appropriate to call the new management company ‘Defence Building’. It is a name that also rhymes well with the chairman of that committee just said. This is a company that primarily serves the purpose of the defence and not all possible other eventualities that someone in the distant future might have to come up with. It is the defence that has been served that this unit is created to fulfil the purposes described in the proposition. We have to add up to a more rational operation and management of the defence properties. We're sitting on a lot, after the pattern of having fun. It is a use of resources that is not sound in relation to the situation in which both society – for that matter – and defence are located. This conversion of property management takes place at the same time as the other conversion of the defence, and it is therefore an essential element that we get these changes in place as soon as possible. I have noticed the Committee's call to use a sober standard in rehabilitation and new construction, but a certain minimum usually follows from the Planning and Building Act: health, environment and safety requirements, etc. I assume that the committee believes that we should not compromise on such important matters. Merging the local administrative units and the defence building service will provide economies of scale and basis for improving the efficiency of operations. Equally important is to ensure that the new establishment becomes a good job for all those involved, with a common and good corporate culture. I have noticed that the Committee is in some way tying up the new Defence Building with State Building and assuming that Defence Buildings should be given the same powers as State Building has with regard to the provision of liquidity and the power to implement construction projects where the financing is assumed to be covered by rent and within the budget frameworks set at the disposal of the Defence that uses. In the major tasks facing the property management of the defence in connection with the conversion, these powers will, in my opinion, be of great importance in order to facilitate processes in the conversion process itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3830]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1268	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1275	I think this should go pretty fast. It may in some ways feel like ‘jumping after Wirkola’ when we now deal with the annual investment proposition of the Ministry of Defence. Compared to today’s previous debate and previous year’s investment proposals, only smaller projects are referred to here, mainly as modifications to existing material and construction projects. In addition, it should also be noted that at almost all points there is an almost unanimous setting. That's why I just want to touch a few points in the proposition very briefly. However, first of all, after four years in the Defence Committee as the case-rapporteur for the Defence Investment Chapter, let me say a little in general. It appears in the defence that exceedances are the rule and not the exception, both for property, construction and material projects. This, I think, is regrettable, and I would like to ask the defense that what might seem to be an established practice is forced to cease. Earlier today, we have discussed the long-term prospects of the defence, with annual expenditure on the state budget of up to NOK 30 billion. If we as awarding politicians are to be able to legitimise such expenditure, it must not be borne in mind that the defence has solved the millions in terms of discipline and the management of EBA and material investments. The defence as a body will, in the long term, undermine its own legitimacy if such conditions do not cease. In the setting we are dealing with today, there is a repetition of the defence building at Huseby. A majority in the UK last year did not agree to increase the scope of this project by 15 million. kr. This year, a new proposal to increase the framework of the project by 10 million will be launched. kr. This year, however, the reason for the increase is that asbestos and PCBs have been found. The majority of the Committee, having obtained further information in the matter, have therefore found a basis for approving the increase in costs. On this basis, I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3830]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1304	The Committee has examined the Ombudsman’s name for the defence report on the activities between 1 January and 31. of December 2000. I just want to point out a few areas that the committee has noticed. It is positive that social matters brought before the Ombudsman have dropped from 40 p.m. to 7 pst. during the last 10 years. Similarly, the number of military penalties has shown a clear decline. The Advocate General has stated that the disciplinary status of defence has never been as good as it is now, and the Committee hopes that positive developments will continue. We didn't get numbers for 2000, so he said this after 1999. Furthermore, it is positive that the exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion, which is unexpected, perhaps, has fallen significantly since the introduction of the self-declaration scheme from 1 January 2000. It is strange, to say the least, that the Progress Party in the election will not be in a clear description of the facts that you can read in the Ombudsman's report, which deals with persons who, through their lawyer, have declared that they have had some serious problems in freely practicing their religion in the military service. This is an area that is sensitive and important for those concerned. The rest of the Committee would therefore like to indicate that it is also important to pay attention to issues relating to the right to freedom of religion. If a person wants different ethnic groups represented among the command in Defense, it is important to show respect for the individual from the very beginning of the service. Then there are three areas of concern. It's: the marked increase in drug law violations, the large increase of 31 pst. in the number of drug seizures in the defence, the sharp increase in the number of denitions based on mental health problems among soldiers In all these areas, the Committee calls for action to be taken to improve the situation and asks the Ministry to consider what may be appropriate to do in order to achieve the desired results. Finally, I would just like to mention that an overall committee is concerned that the defence's medical treatment provision should be good. I refer you to the comment on this in the setting. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1335	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3830]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1349	It's a unanimous committee that's behind the Inn. S. No 294, which deals with changes to the Regulation for additions etc. to designated herds of compulsory protection. The regulation of allowances follows the principle that the Defence Committee has endorsed in the past, namely a firm commitment to the additions given to adult unskilled workers. Furthermore, reintroduce this date for dispensation compensation. Consequently, the number of days spent in service will be decisive for the disbursed remuneration. This will strike a balance between those who have a short time and those who have a longer first time service. Then I have to correct some of the wrong numbers in the setting. First, on page 1, column 2, where in the last sentence under point 3. The background is: ‘Converted to effective date on 1 July 2000 this constitutes 1.8 pst.’ It shall be 1 July 2001. On page 2 of the Decision, ‘The 2001 budget shall be amended as follows’. In the case of cap. 1720 item 01, it says ‘Operating expenditure is increased by 328,000 from NOK 1 175 528 000 to NOK 1 503 528 000’. The last number is going to be $1,175,856 000. In the case of cap. 1725 item 01, it says: ‘Operating expenditure is increased by 79 000 from NOK 1645 796 000 to NOK 1724 796 000’. The last number is going to be $1,645,875,000. I assume that there was enough information. I therefore recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1368	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3830]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1382	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1396	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, one of the independent representatives is given 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1407	Although the State also contributed to the outcome of the negotiations, I would like to commend the negotiators because they helped this time to reach agreement on an agreement. When I do that, it's because it can never be easy for an organisation to negotiate a result that's not as positive for all the members. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the negotiating institute will survive with the challenges facing agriculture, and it will require a strong spine on the part of the trade unions. I remember that Stortinget has assumed that, among other things, shall be re-allocated within the agricultural agreement. Although some important issues have so far been shifted to the labour market, the position of the trade unions is respected. So to this year's settlement: I note with satisfaction that the political parties that cooperated closely in the treatment of the agricultural notification a little over a year ago have drawn close to each other during the examination of the year's settlement. Saying that cooperation has been restored is likely to be too strong, but today’s attitude shows that the best majority solutions for agriculture are still at the crossroads between the centre and the Workers’ Party. These lots show, inter alia: to the final protocol, where the parties initially confirm that the design of the agricultural policy instruments is based on the premises attached to the Stortinge treatment of the agricultural notification. Nor shall it be concealed that the centre parties are directed against the Workers' Party by means of individual formulations. In particular, the negotiations themselves, as they hardly claim, can be said to have been real. To that I would just say that the state procedure, based on investigations, has been consistent with past practice, even during the central government. Against this background, I would argue that the criticism goes far beyond the objective. On the part of the Labour Party, we assume that agricultural organisations will not sign an agreement that does not respect the interests of members in an acceptable way. I also feel 100 pst. ensure that they will never sign an agreement that goes on chords with the requirement of safe food. In that case, it will undermine the whole industry's foundation. In view of the food scandals in Europe, it is quite natural that food security should also be brought to the fore when dealing with this matter. I would therefore like to quote what a unanimous committee says about today's conditions in Norway: ‘The Committee will stress that the food placed on the market in Norway is and will be safe. Demands for ever cheaper food shall not be met at the expense of safe food requirements produced in an environmentally sustainable manner and with strict animal welfare requirements. The Committee would point out that both traditional agriculture and organic farming are to meet this requirement.’» A unanimous committee shares the view that the disease situation in Europe is also a cause for reflection and vigilance in Norway, but the Committee cannot see that there is a basis for major changes in the policy taken up in the agricultural notification in this area. The continuation of this policy, in the Committee's opinion, will not lead to a deterioration in Norwegian consumers' confidence in Norwegian food and food production. It is also worth noting that the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, believe that despite an increasing focus on cheaper food, Norwegian agriculture continues to have a structure that provides a clear advantage both in terms of health and quality food and in terms of animal health. Consumers’ concerns were a key element of the agricultural communication, both in terms of ensuring safe food and acceptable prices. A forward-looking industrial policy must take consumers' demands and preferences seriously. With regard to the impact of the agreement on price developments, the Government has taken the view that the agreed target price increase will result in a fall in the consumer price index of less than 0,1 pst. The established value creation programme has been very well received in the industry. The registration of project sketches and applications with a total amount of applications twice the amount available is the best proof of this. The working party is therefore particularly pleased that the parties agreed to increase the funding for the programme by 40 million. kr. Applications for funding for organic projects will be prioritised, which, in the light of our ambitions in this area, is not only sensible but also absolutely necessary. As we deal with a negotiated agreement, I have not found it right to go into the details of the agreement, nor the size of the framework. The Labour Party has always supported an agricultural settlement where the parties have reached an agreement, as well as this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1438	I think it is appropriate to follow up the defence debate today with the agricultural agreement and the country's food preparedness policy. It is a steep and shaky country in which we live, and many do not think it is suitable for modern and efficient agricultural production. But our country is rich in water – and on water at the right time. Water quality and sufficient water during the growing season are the largest restrictions on food production in the world. Norway is a country rich in grass resources, and pasture is one of our comparative advantage. In this country, we have a good administrative tradition in relation to these resources and a conscious attitude towards food preparedness. I think we should be proud of that. The Bondevik Government negotiated an agreement on agricultural settlement with both organisations in 1998 and 1999. I would now like to congratulate the Labour Party on the fact that for the first time in a very long time they have reached an agreement with both agricultural organisations. The negotiation break of the last year was particularly disappointing, as the expectations of the signals from the processing of the agricultural message were not met. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the agreement. We believe it is important that the Storting relate to the agreement negotiated. If we go against important points in the agreement, it will undermine the negotiations. It would reduce the value of the right to negotiate by organisations, and it would undermine the government's ability to conduct real negotiations on behalf of the state and on the basis of the political guidelines we have in the Stortinget. The agricultural agreement has an interesting history over the last century, and it has good historical and political reasons. Political emphasis has been slightly different over the years. The agricultural agreement and the negotiating institute are a materialisation of a social agreement between the country and the agricultural population. The social contract — or perhaps one should say the management contract — is intended to ensure the safety and preparedness of the population of Norway, to ensure food at a reasonable price and to ensure reasonable income for those who are required to do the management job. It shall ensure environmental values, cultural landscapes and national cultural values and traditions. Nowadays, such social and commercial obligations are not entirely politically correct, as very many people believe that the market and competition should be dealt with mostly for the benefit of consumers. Nevertheless, I believe that the agricultural agreement and similar joint and several administrative arrangements that bring national benefits have a future in common. The agricultural agreement itself is a bearer of the best traditions of our democracy and democracy. It is not difficult to record that many will survive this negotiating system. Nor is it a very secret that the negotiating system, as the political situation is in Stortinget, gives the State great power over the outcome of the negotiations. The State may punish the counterparty by making poor arrangements for the Storting if the agricultural organisations give up negotiating on the basis of framework or political content. In the Grand Duchy, today’s government can have a majority for anything — even a few of them to reduce the incomes of agriculture. This is not a good situation for those negotiating on behalf of the agricultural population – please note: on behalf of the agricultural population, not on behalf of the members of the organisations. The size is going to be leading the long lines, and I want to use the last part of the post to give some signals. Before I go into this, I want to work out some parts of the agreement that we are not satisfied with. See if there's anything we're not satisfied with, we'll vote for the agreement. We are disappointed that the Labour Party is once again moving on the border or outside the framework of the spring 2000 agricultural agreement on income. This agreement does not guarantee active practitioners income development and social conditions in line with other social groups. The current trend in income does not ensure the maintenance and modernisation needed by this industry. The government has made great efforts to reduce prices when the VAT reform is implemented. The full benefit shall be enjoyed by consumers. It is strange to note, then, that the same reform will give farmers 500 million. kr more in income. I consider that unrealistic with the premises made by the Government. [[The President clubs]] Finally, I just want to say that I'm glad the government didn't follow up on the structural grip they did last year. I hope that they will continue, by the next agreement, in ensuring the versatility of agriculture. I am pleased with what has been done with regard to co-operation, and the additional protocol that has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1471	There is a certain unreal impact on agricultural debates in the United Kingdom, in the sense that whatever may be said or not, it has, if one cannot say, no meaning, at least only marginal importance for the formulation of Norwegian agricultural policy. In fact, the size of the institute we have for agricultural negotiations has cut itself off from having opinions on this. It is quite symptomatic when the case rapporteur, Mr. Breimo, from the Workers' Party, finally says that he chooses not to go into any detail because there is already a negotiated agreement. However, I registered that it was a very light case rapporteur. His performance and body language this year is quite different from last year, and I understand that so far. However, I think it is a great pity that the Storting is, in fact, completely without a basis for what I would call concrete agricultural debates, because the debates we have here, both in terms of the speaking time we have set up, and the whole arrangement for this, show that the Stortinge has cut off these things. It is left entirely to the parties. What has shaped agricultural policy – if one is to look at these four years together – I would say that to a large extent there is a lack of predictability for professionals in the industry. And even though Breimo also expressed relief at this point of intersection between the centers and the working party, and that St.meld. No 19 to a large extent, I also registered that the representative Karlstrøm was very disappointed that the Workers' Party still did not follow what was agreed in St.meld. No 19th@item: I believe Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers will still be throwing balls because there is no willingness to provide predictable framework conditions. Those who were premiered last year in the position, the practitioners who were encouraged last year – whether they were the sucklers, the co-drivers or whatever – are the same professionals to be punished this year. So the vibration of this dependence on the block is that the professionals in the industry have very little predictability. It is as difficult for farmers as for other traders to have framework conditions that change so completely from year to year. That's why I understand the frustration that exists. It is clear that when organisations are going to take average reasons, they are not satisfying anyone, and therefore, as we see, there is a great deal of concern among those who are professionals here. I will briefly address – while I remember it – the proposals No. 1 and 2. For the right part, we have entered what we think about the agreement in this setting. We have also pointed out what should be taken into account in a future Norwegian agriculture. At my discretion, it should be taken into account that this is self-employed who should have predictable framework conditions far more predictable than the mood reports contained in the annual farm structure. I think we should more fully base a policy that promotes farmers who put up rational solutions, a policy that has economic incentives to do things that appear to be economically sensible, and not this system that we have with an overcompensation for those who run small and irrationally, and a similar punishment for those who actually choose to run as full-time farmers. And what particularly disappoints me about the agreement that has been concluded is that in some areas where there were clear leadership in this direction last year – and which was the Labour Party's policy last year – the very opposite approach has been adopted this year, by shifting in some areas from linear grant schemes to overcompensating for those who run a little bit on the say and a little hobby while those who bet have been punished. I can understand such a policy that the Norwegian peasantry is not very excited about. It will be a long time before the full-time Norwegian farmer finds it particularly satisfactory as long as so much of the funds goes to the operation of agricultural production as is what I would call a hobby. What we need are active, free farmers who have financial incentives to do things that seem reasonable. Before we wind up the arrangement with this whole institute, I don't think we'll get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1490	The representative Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1493	The Progress Party notes that the Government of the Year’s Agricultural Settlement does not give strong signals to agriculture about the need for a course conversion. The only thing that's done is, in our view, some minor adjustments. Nor in the case of the purchase and sale of milk quotas or joint ventures, would the Ministry contribute to more efficient and rational solutions that had a potential at lower consumer prices and less expenditure to the State. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for radical changes in agricultural policy that will strengthen competition at the processing and food chains, reduce costs and facilitate more rational operational solutions. This requires that primary producers be given opportunities for income and opportunities through the development of more efficient use. Then we have to do something about all the production restrictions, like concession limits in the law on the acquisition of livestock, we have to do something about the restrictions on the sale of land and forest property, we have to do something about the housing and driving regulations and much, much more. Today, in fact, a farmer gets criminalized if he produces large, efficient and cheap. This has to end. We have to get the free Norwegian farmer back. We need to pursue a policy that develops diversity, flexibility, love for the earth, the countryside, work, food and much, much more. Our Minister of Agriculture has been concerned that margin studies in the value chain for food should be carried out on the reef – who increases their margins and bears responsibility for high food prices. The demand for sharp competition between food chains – and which now appear to be giving positive results through price cuts at Rimi – must not be taken into account by a costly and inappropriate regulatory system that results in the loss of both farmers and consumers. The Minister of Agriculture himself took the initiative of the recent NILF/Econ survey to find out who caused the price increases from 1999 to today. The response clearly showed that the agricultural industry contributed to the price increase. Among other things, there is a need to: pay attention to the specific legislation applicable to processing establishments in the cooperative. I would quote from the Annual Report of the Competition Authority: ‘Market regulation at the level of turnover contributes to limited competition in several agricultural sectors. A reason for low-functioning competition is the role of interoperability operators as market regulator...’» And on the other hand, ‘Regulatory exports cause domestic sales volume to decrease and prices to exceed what would otherwise be the case.’ We are all aware of the problems of Norwegian Meat, which are both market regulator, supplier and competitor. Many believe that it is the recipe for inefficient and costly market formation that does not solve the main challenge, namely effective and non-competitive pricing at all stages of the value chain. We also have the famous Sales Act and the Turnover Council. In the first place, tools are being used to bring production to an end, and it is not possible to stop it in time, and there is considerable overproduction, so that new and expensive tools can be put in place to reduce production. Today we are in a deficit situation. Those who lose are both farmers and consumers. The farmer often has to pay several kroner in the sales tax per. kilograms of meat instead of being owned by the farmer in a rational system of competition which helps to improve profitability. Market regulation and trading laws also increase the cost to consumers unnecessarily, and this has been pointed out by the Competition Authority. If margin surveys are to be intended, some action must also be taken when finding the reef in the value chain. Therefore, the Council of State must focus on price increases due to agricultural policy and the agri-food industry. The government is responsible for the agricultural settlement and the regulatory arrangements administered by the agricultural industry. Here, the government has to do something. Governments took a firm stand against Rimi. Corresponding action in the areas where the shoe is printed is a popular requirement! I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party – the proposals No. 3-9 - referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1521	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1524	Is there any link between the level of income of food producers and food security? Yes, of course, the Center Party and the other center parties mean. The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party see no such connection. As long as the agricultural trade unions sign an agreement, the content is good enough to ensure safe food, as stated in the setting. Yes, the right considers it appropriate to remove NOK 6000 per person. annual work in the first instance in order to increase the pressure from agriculture. The progress party will cut much more. So what was the alternative of agriculture to signing the agreement? It was getting a settlement with an income decrease! When the signals are crystal clear that the country's dealers will have a majority in the Storting even if a minus settlement is presented, it is no wonder that agriculture accepts a result far worse than the Stortinget promised for one year ago. What's strange is that the Workers' Party, which belonged to the majority that promised parallel developments in income that would give NOK 12 000 to NOK 15 000 per year. Annual work, even this year, breaks the agreement and pushes through a miserable result for those who guarantee us safer food than any other country in Europe. I have previously said that an agreement with the Workers' Party must be made before it is worth making a press release about. The agricultural policy of the Government last year and this year is not in accordance with the notification of St. No 19 for 1999-2000 and the setting that we wrote together. The working party emphasises the safety advantage of Norwegian agriculture, but has a scheme to remove it. Small and scattered holdings that produce low rates of infection are good, but now six family farms are being laid down a day because of the poor economy. Small extent of imports and trade in live animals ensures animal health. Yes, but today it is the individual user who makes sure to limit the trade, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party say freely. Animal feed free of salmonella, hormones, antibiotics and genetically modified components is the best. The working party will not prohibit zinc bacitracin in feed and does not vote in favour of a ban on the trade and use of genetic food, as proposed in the revised national budget. If agriculture does not have the necessary support in the Storting to achieve a fair income development, the industry has greater confidence among ordinary people than most industries. When the trade restrictions against foot-and-mouth disease infection were imposed in winter, the digestion was close to 100 pst. I think it is impressive that Norwegian livestock have such a good health status based on the significant cross-border contact and trade that is taking place today. The main reason is prudence on the part of farmers. In the later agricultural settlements, the price difference between Sweden and meat has been a main argument for low additions. A study has now been presented to show that Swedish trade has been greatly inflated by those who have driven the campaigns for cheapest food — some politicians included. The Swedish farmer’s meat price increases by NOK 1.50 at the end of the year, while the price of Norwegian farmers increases by only 50 cents. Now the food tax is halved, which can reduce the price gap by another 5-10 kroner per day. meat kilo. After these awards, Oslo is the third cheapest capital in Europe in terms of food prices in terms of wages and salaries, about 20 pst. cheaper than Stockholm. And it's not the import food that gives this a head start, it's the low incomes in agriculture. Is there any other group of goods or services where Norway is so well located? Does the food barons get carts to themselves so uninhibited somewhere? I find it shameful that someone still talks about expensive Norwegian food and blames agriculture. The Economic and Social Committee has been informed of the very unfortunate effects that the new single pricing rules may have in the absence of exemptions for certain vegetables, including: increased transport and handling before the goods reach the store, and increased prices and poorer quality for consumers. This is not in the interests of consumers. The rules can also give food chains increased power, it's said. Competition then becomes even weaker. I hope that the Competition Authority will find that the derogations provided for in the EU directives can be exploited as a unanimous committee has pointed out. The economy of suckler cow production is another theme that has been addressed by the Committee. It is essential that no producer group is left so much behind in income. I am concerned that increased meat imports will soon be needed if this group of farmers were to behave in such a way as the laws of the market warrant. Finally, a comment on the co-operations in milk production. The media debate confirms that there is a European scale breeding ground in Norwegian agriculture as well. Therefore, restrictions are needed. The majority of the population tested a negotiated agreement in 1999 which established a ceiling for three participants in joint ventures. It was a big loss! The centre party believes that a limit of 500000 litres is too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1547	First, I would like to address the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. SV will vote in favour of this agreement. We do that because we think it is in principle right to vote for a negotiated agreement. The second reason for doing so is that it is obvious that a result in agricultural production that would depend on what the majority of people think would be worse for agriculture. We are absolutely convinced of that. At the same time, we see that this is a heavy pressure against the organizations to agree, and perhaps also go beyond the actual seas think it is right, because they have nothing to pick up in the Stortinget. It's sad, but that's how it is. Therefore, there are also features of this agreement with which SV is not very satisfied by the way. We think, sail if there are any good approaches here, that it focuses too little on safe food. We think there's too much focus on economies of scale, sail if there's any brakes inserted there in relation to co-operation, for example. We are sceptical about the investigations into negotiable allowances included in the proposal. Other things we can mention as positive are that, especially in the value creation programme, it now says that organic farming should be favoured if such projects come up. We think that's very positive, and it points in the right direction. Similarly, it points in the right direction to increase subsidies to organic farming from 50 million. NOK 125 million. kr during the period. However, SV believes that there is a need to invest more. This is because we perceive that this is the most important consumer correction, the most important environmental correction and also the most important district policy correction we can do in agriculture. That is why we believe this is a future strategy which is also a survival strategy for agriculture. SV is committed to developing more research in this area, also more research than this proposition points to the fact that some disciplines are intended to be correct. The question is whether we know what kind of organic farming we should develop. SV believes that we have a piece left to go. Norges Bondelag has decided that they will promote what they call a knowledge-based organic farming. It is, in the SV's view, an important signal from the Farming Team, where they also see the need to control this development. If we decide to streamline organic farming and solve the bottlenecks for rational production, we will at the same time develop new technologies that can be used in the ecologicalisation of the rest of agriculture. Organic farming provides environmental and resource benefits directly from which other agriculture can benefit. It can move it in the ecological direction, and it will bring great environmental benefits. In a few years we might be able to put a line over weed spraying in conventional cereals, thanks to new technology and knowledge from organic farming. So there's a need to think about what we're going to develop. We need to find research institutions and projects that govern fast, and faster, towards modern rational agriculture both in terms of organic farming and to have conventional agriculture organically managed faster than what we get done today with today's appropriations. That is why we have chosen to promote the proposals on the table. They point forward, and are not part of the agreement, but are political signals that SV believes are important and should come. We see that there is a great need to secure the incomes of agriculture for farmers. At the same time, we see that there is a need to keep expenditures down. Then you have to choose what it is you don't want to inflate grants to. Therefore, SV has asked the Government again to see if it is possible to set a ceiling on transfers for each use. So we choose to cut at the top and not at the bottom, and believe that it will have a very positive effect on both the number of jobs and the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1565	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1568	The left is pleased that one has succeeded in reaching agreement with the organisations in the agricultural negotiations of the year. There may also be other parties, not least the party of government. There's a disturbance in agriculture that you haven't seen before. A settlement dampens some of this turmoil. In view of the forthcoming settlement, it is important, for the sake of cleanliness, to put in place two elements: One is that the parties agree on the years to be taken into account for the calculation of income trends. Respectfully, the parties must agree on a method to ensure that annual income variations are collected and used in a consistent manner. The second is that there should be real negotiations between two parties, offers must also be made by the State, not an informal sketch which will not be promoted as a proposal for the Stortinge in the event of a possible breach of the negotiations. This testifies to a lack of respect for the other party on the part of the state and does not belong in modern negotiations in a democratic country. Such a procedure belongs to countries with completely different sets of governance, and is not worthy of the State as a negotiating party. This needs to be changed in future negotiations. In the case of the agreement itself, the results available are not in line with the objectives of the income trend set out in the agricultural notification. According to the agricultural budget title, annual income is 153,800 kroner. The agreement provides for an increase in revenue of approx. NOK 160 000. This will mean that the withdrawal of professionals from the industry will continue to accelerate, the recruitment will deteriorate and the maintenance of the operating appliance will become worse. From 1 January 2000 to 1 January 2001, the number of livestock holdings has fallen by almost 5000 – over 10 pst., the number of dairy farms with almost 14 pst., the number of holdings with pig production by almost 20 pst. A unanimous committee states that Norwegian agriculture is a traditional industry and an important asset. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen, says that ‘a comprehensive agricultural policy is needed to ensure both the structure of agriculture and the economic conditions of each user’. We're going to have a farm all over the country. How does it compare with the actual conditions of reduction in the number of uses and professionals? This is double communication. In the view of the Left, the time has come for a value debate on Norwegian agriculture. That debate must come now, if not I am afraid it may be too late. There has been a strong focus on food prices. It is important when comparing food prices, that one remembers living in a high-cost country, a country with high prices in general, but also with high wages. Then it is unreasonable to expect just food, with the production conditions we have in this country, to be much more reasonable in terms of income than in other countries. Compared to income, food is cheaper in Norway than in the other Nordic countries, even much cheaper than in, for example, countries. Stockholm. Norwegian food is in fifth place in Europe. We can't have a salary level like what we have, and at the same time food prices like we should have lived in a low-cost country. This is unrealistic politics and unfair to those who are going to have their livelihoods of producing food, namely the farmers. The Agriculture Communication identified the need for good social arrangements for farmers. This involves facilitating, inter alia: arranged leisure time. While other professional groups are given more days off, the agreement provides for less free time for farmers by cutting the redundancy allowance for the smallest use. Several studies show that most consumers place emphasis on safe and clean food, good choice of goods and good availability far more than cheap food. The Minister of Agriculture himself has said that the foot-and-mouth disease in Europe has taught us a lesson, and that it is important that farmers have an income that prevents them from taking shortcuts. If the agricultural message had been treated today, the focus would have been on safe food rather than on cheap food. Have we learned a lesson? I ask the question about the need for a new agricultural message. The escalation towards more organic farming must continue. The agricultural settlement of the year takes new steps in this direction. That's good. In this context, it is also gratifying to note the majority’s view of the role of NRESØK as an independent research and competence centre. There are several who have been concerned about the situation of suckler cow and meat production. It is important that there is predictability in that area, and here there are some users who come out well, the smallest, while the largest come out worse through the settlement. Similarly, there is some concern about co-operation, and predictability is important in the area, as in other areas of business. Finally, we all enjoy the value creation program that is in good hands and that is a positive contribution in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1606	I am pleased that this year the parties reached an agreement in the agricultural settlement. I am particularly pleased that this year too we can follow up the policy of the Government and the Storting, which aim to reduce price differences in relation to Sweden. At the same time, we only have a limited increase in budgetary transfers to agriculture. These are important elements of the agreement for me, together with the strong commitment to organic farming and instruments for increased diversity in the food market. An overall assessment of several aspects has been carried out in the evaluation of the framework. There is a need for cost reduction and migration throughout the food chain — and it has been assumed that the reduction in food consumption is exploited by agriculture in an offensive way for increased production and, consequently, income. The parties to the agreement had different assumptions in these areas. The agreement involves a compromise in relation to the assumptions for improving the efficiency and value of the VAT reform. The agreement allows agriculture to develop incomes in line with other groups. However, it is important to stress that this involves increasing the focus on the good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments, as foreseen by the Storting in the management of the agricultural notification. The distribution profile is essentially the same as at settlement last year. That's not right, like the right, among other things. claims that the cohesion of the structural profile is not monitored this year. The structural profile of the grant schemes must be seen in the context of the target price changes. In several productions, use is significantly better this year than in last year’s settlement. In the case of the district profile, it is maintained or strengthened. The state negotiating committee was involved in the negotiations with several simplification proposals, in addition to some proposals that were intended to increase farmers' room for action. This is necessary in the interests of the traders themselves, because many conditions restrict the level of prices and transfers in the future. I am pleased that the parties to the agreement agree to clarify a system for the purchase and sale of milk quotas directly between the manufacturers. This can both increase the adaptability of individual producers and contribute to the greater build-up of allowances. Such instruments are asked by the Government of Stortingen to assess. On several occasions, the size has clearly given rise to the task of simplifying the instruments of agricultural policy. Some are implemented in this year’s agreement, and the parties agree to launch a major investigation with a view to further simplifications for next year’s negotiations. Of course, simplifications should take place within the main policy objectives drawn up by the Storting, but we must look for simpler ways to achieve the objectives. I would also like to stress the future-oriented profile of the agreement through the effort to further develop organic farming and to increase diversity through the Norwegian food value-making programme. From the point of view of agriculture, this investment is in future markets and thus in future income opportunities. And it's a consumer right of business policy, because it facilitates meeting trends in demand that I'm sure will become stronger in the years to come. The Agreement strengthens all stages of the production and placing on the market of organic products. Research and development of organic production methods also make an important contribution to the development of agricultural production in the right direction. It is also good that the parties have shown an understanding of the importance of increased value creation and diversity in agriculture. The agreement amounts to a doubling of the free resources of the Norwegian food value added programme. It provides a good basis for increasing consumer choice and further developing Norwegian food culture with new and exciting quality products. I went to work as an agricultural minister with a great commitment to this with increased value creation, and I feel a strong ownership of the value creation program. In recent times, the prices of the goods have taken a lot of my time. But here I stand, and here the government stands, on two legs, and the basis on which we stand is a support bar marked by the words «safe food».
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1628	It was an important clarification that the Council of State was standing on two legs. I want to refer to what our main speaker said in the introduction, and what is stated in the comment in relation to the development of income. Of course, I'm also behind that. In fact, at the same time, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on an agreement. If the media is right that he traveled from the Half Wave with a minus of 800 million. kr and managed to get into the plus that is actually here now, so it's good work from the council. And I actually think that's something I can say, even though we know that income development is not what it should be. I would also like to congratulate the case-speaker, Mr Breimo. It is nice that he can conclude with a negotiated agreement. And I agree with what he said. In fact, agricultural policy may need to be designed in order to make farmers live fairly well. We heard that in the articles from the Right and the Progress Party here today. I have two questions for the Council of State. Since the income target is also not reached this year, is the Council agreed that further use of the tax deduction could be a way of improving the income side? Will he follow up on what the representative Kongshaug said in relation to that with the unit price of vegetables? Here I feel in a way that Norway is more Catholic than the pope in interpreting this regulation, and I didn't think it was the government council to be so Catholic. Will he do his best to clean up this? And the last: next year is the United Nations Mountain Year – I don't think exactly the formal name in English. It's important. Among other things, Hedmark and Uppland still have large steelworks. There is also a lot of other activities going on in the mountains. Will the Department in any way follow up the UN year? There were three questions I asked, President – I said two introductory words!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1645	In a little overtime, I guess.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1648	Let me first express the pleasure – it is nice – that Lilletun thinks it is positive that the Council of State is safe. Let's hope he keeps doing that, even after some events in the fall. What is important to stress is that I clearly believe, as I said in my main post, that this agreement so absolutely allows agriculture to develop incomes in line with other groups. So I clearly disagree with those who claim that this is not following up St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. But what is important to stress is that the grant instruments over the contract alone will not lead to satisfactory income development. The majority of the Storting Food Committee have agreed that this will not be the case in the future either. Therefore, in my main post I actually quoted from the position of the nutrition committee in connection with the examination of St.meld. No 19 years ago, among others The party of Lilletun and the other central parties, together with the Workers' Party, constituted the majority, which said that it is important to stress that future income developments will be concerned with: «Good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments». And I believe that agriculture is doing what it says in the five points, along with the changes that are now taking place at target prices and in grant schemes, that agriculture in relation to this agreement has an opportunity for income development in line with other groups. But it's not just the government's job to make sure that that's going to happen. There are also clear tasks for agriculture in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1660	The President is convinced that the representative Lilletun is pleased that the Council of State is safe. A little bit more uncertain is he whether Lilletun is equally concerned that the Council of State should be equally safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1666	I am at least recording that part of those who are concerned with agricultural policy in this room, physically both stand and sit well, and perhaps even are difficult to move. It's about this point of intersection. We go to the end of a four-year period, and the undersigned and the Minister of Agriculture have been from different positions at this point of intersection for some important things. I have so much appreciated both the attitude of the Workers' Party and, not least, the attitude of the Council of State to competition in the food industry, in that sense, not least within the parts of the product spectrum that relate to agriculture. Governments' commitment to competition – not least in the milk sector, to bring up a competitor for Tine and get a powerful unit there – I think it's been very important. It's a work that I hope the Council of State will continue. The Council of State mentioned these five points which were important in relation to the development of Norwegian agriculture. The last and fifth point he mentioned has to do with structure. And there aren't many approaches in this agricultural business that can be said to have it in itself that it will at least reinforce structural development. Now there's a development going on, and St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, from the Bondevik government, it was also clear that one should in some ways continue the structural development that is taking place. However, in the state debate it was a very good proposal on paragraph 5 on transferable milk quotas. The Labour Party government went in for us to have negotiable milk quotas within each state. The government had to decide on that point in the negotiations. That means there's a large majority in the Biggest for that position. I could imagine hearing the Council of State's argument as to why the structural approach is particularly sensible, and so sensible that the Government actually promoted it in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1677	I think I'll finish the polemic about how I'm standing and sitting, and I'm right to answer the questions. With regard to the question of tradable milk quotas, I would like to refer to my main post, where I said that on the part of the state, we have thought that it could be an instrument for making reasonable structural adjustments, not least in milk production. It is also completely in line with both St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 and the position of a large majority in this Chamber, which points out the need not least for structural changes, linked in particular to milk. What characterises any negotiation situation is, of course, the question of taking and giving. In some areas, you have to jeopardize yourself in order to reach an agreement. The starting point here was that the State included in its offer that tradable milk quotas should be established as a scheme. Farm organisations strongly opposed it. Agricultural organisations also promoted some views on practical problems related to its implementation. This led to a compromise in the Minutes which is that we take a year's chance to think through this, i.e. in the sense that we will then investigate it thoroughly and have this investigation concluded in good time by next year's negotiations. What has been a very strong driving force for me thinking positively about this system is that when we then say that we need some structural adjustments, especially on milk, we see that the only way to achieve it today is through joint ventures. That's the only way to change the structure. I think it's one too cleverly set of instruments to be able to make some adjustments, and in this way the purchase and sale of milk quotas will be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1688	The Council of State stated that on 1 July, when we halve the food tax, the price differences between Norway and Sweden will be reduced. It remains to be seen. That's something we all hope and believe in. But now a new moment has come. The Norwegian krona has strengthened considerably, and it is becoming increasingly attractive – for the time being at least – to act in Sweden. There's no doubt about it. But then these margin studies. We have had two this year, SIFO's study in February and the one at NILF and ECON which came now in May. They were going to find the bandit in the drama, or they were going to smoke out the reef, said the council, and they've been very profiling on it and on the last level, the food chains. But now these studies clearly say that it's the agricultural food industry, the processing industry, that's the bandit in the drama. There is no point in costing on expensive studies when you have smoked out this reef. These regulations are also within the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Here, the ministry really has the opportunity to make proposals for constructive solutions to make this piece more effective, so that it benefits the consumer. So I want to ask a very specific question: what is the Council of State going to do now, when you've revealed the bandit in the drama?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1698	Firstly, it is important to be aware that this margin study carried out by NILF and ECON was a margin study that studied the price evolution of two species of meat for a certain period — it was beef and it was pigmeat. The reason why the two products were picked out is, as Hedstrom has repeatedly pointed out, that they are typical cross-border products. There is no doubt that the results of that margin study show that for that period and for the two meat layers, the meat industry has increased its margins. The farmer has been paid less, the meat industry has increased its margins, consumer prices have been roughly stable. And as Hedstrom himself says, the point of the investigation was just to figure out who it is that has increased its margins, so that we could do something about it. However, it becomes too easy to say that the solution is to do something with e.g.: the market regulation system and interoperability. It's not like this margin study is just studying the cooperative part of the meat industry. At the final stage in the meat industry, 50 pst. of the enterprises private enterprises, and the other half is Norwegian Meat and meat co-operative. And it's especially on this last bit, the processing bit, that the margins really have increased. To say that the reason lies in the law on turnover and its system is too simple to explain. But that there is a need to go thoroughly into this and not allow the meat industry as a whole to escape with such a clear margin increase, I would say I agree with Hedstrom in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1707	To the last topic: we were in the setting a little bit concerned that when the result was like that, maybe there were some of them who didn't increase their margins so much now, who might have done it two or three years ago, so they had a lot to go on. You should also look at that a little bit. Return to our treatment of the agricultural notification for a year back. There we were all concerned about and focused on the limited freedom of action we could have, for example. in relation to the countries around us and the trade rules on which we are bound. We looked at price developments within the EU. It was said that there were prices to go down. They were supposed to go down 10-20 pst. on meat, for example, according to Agenda 2010. So it turns out they don't. Swedish prices go up three times more than our prices go up. It was also said that according to what the WTO has decided, our transfers must be reduced. Then the OECD has found out that transfers in the countries around us are rising. Norway is actually the only country in Europe where transfers go down – in addition we have Australia. We have to change the policy, they say in Europe now, we have to get more of the Norwegian structure – because of the experience they have had with animal diseases. A year ago we were very concerned with the border trade, it was so huge. So there's been an investigation that shows that it's not so huge, it's just a third party of what we thought and someone said it was last year. Studies have been carried out to show that consumers are not as concerned with cheap food as we thought last year – it is in the 13th place of 25 conditions, says the study, which is done at NTNU. The representative of Kongshaug said that we should probably have a new notification about Norwegian agriculture, because there have been so many changes. I don't think we got so much out of the previous round that we should have it. But could we not, in the context of the individual agricultural situation and the communication to the Storting, get an update of the circumstances we put much emphasis on, so that we could constantly focus on the same conditions, but not overestimate ourselves on the issues on which we do not need to overestimate ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1722	My starting point will be that I per. Today, there is no need to develop new agricultural policy guidelines. I feel absolutely comfortable living with St. reported. No 19 for 1999-2000. Although it was not the Stoltenberg government that wrote it, we chose to leave it in the Stortinget. We will therefore stand by the announcement made by the Bondevik Government, and we believe that the process that took place in Stortinget provided us with a basis for majority comments within which a sensible agricultural policy can be pursued. In relation to what Morten Lund is now dealing with concrete matters, I think there are two main images that we need to take inwards as formidable challenges for Norwegian agriculture. One is that negotiations are actually under way in Geneva relating to the WTO, which is about how the future level of transmission is to be reduced throughout the WTO system and how customs duties are to be reduced. Negotiations are therefore about how this type of reduction is to be carried out. Every country that is a member of the WTO sits and negotiates about it. The second important thing we have to deal with is that the Norwegian food industry today is warning that the price differences between Norwegian raw materials and alternative raw materials prices in Europe are so great that the competitive situation of the Norwegian food industry is worsening. Market shares are being lost and imports are increasing. So I don't think there can be any doubt that we still have a challenge in relation to the transfer level, and that we still have a challenge in relation to the price level. For this reason, the EEAG and the EEAG continue to be appropriate instruments to meet those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1731	Last year, there was a strong focus on food prices, and in particular Swedish trade. This year it has slowed down a little, and it is a reality that for families with children it would have meant far more to get Swedish kindergarten prices than to get Swedish food prices in Norway. It would have meant many more thousand dollars for the families of children than a VAT reduction can mean – if we're lucky enough to actually reduce it. I need to ask the Council of State if I understood him correctly when he said that really the arrangement for this settlement was so that it was the largest, because the whole technique here and the majority of the increase is in the target price increase, so that it depends on the mechanism of VAT reduction, that you get lower prices and higher volumes – and thereby achieve the target price in the market. This will be best for those who produce the most. So another question. It's about organic food. I've been playing detective and trying to find organic food in the shops for years. I have made a round again, and if I were to live on it, I would certainly not have done so long. It was hard to find anything. Governments have a great understanding of what marketing means. The government is also driving forward that you are very concerned about organic products, but at the same time you are still keeping a low profile on how to market the new products. In addition to that, you have to charge additional prices in the market before you have a volume, before you have allowed the consumer to see what it is that you can get bought, and before you have tried it. How can the Council of States believe that such a strategy will succeed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1745	First of all, the question of the profile and the device on the year's settlement. Clearly, when the bulk of the income growth takes the form of prices, it is the use that produces the most, that will generate the most income growth. That's why it's also like I said in my main post, so that the profile that was in the last year's settlement is continued in the year's settlement, but in a different way. The profile is the same, that the farmer who tries to live on the farm, i.e. produces milk or meat, vegetables or cereals to such an extent that he has the ambition to draw his income from it, will get the best out of it, because there are price adjustments that primarily give the income growth. Then I have to say that I could have understood criticism in many areas related to the agricultural settlement of the year, but if it is in one area I actually feel that I am a little indignant about getting criticism, it is in relation to the investment in organic farming. For years now, efforts have been made to build up a level of appropriations for organic farming, and in all those years, it is possible to reach a level of 75 million. kr. You had 75 million. kr before the settlement of the year, and in the government's offer, the Government proposed SEK 150 million. kr – i.e. a doubling of the appropriations – to meet the challenges outlined by Karin Andersen in one year. So we had to sit with the Farmers and the Farmers and Small Farmers team and negotiate it down 25 million. NOK to get an agreement, but we're still increasing by 50 million. kr in a year, just to address the market challenge and everything that Karin Andersen is concerned about. Of course, SV says that they would like to suggest more. There's no new tone from SV. But in this area, I actually think the government has followed a lot of the thinking of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1752	So the chord change is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1757	This year's agricultural agreement was negotiated by the parties. I think it did the businessmen well, but it also did the organizations and the state well. They were seen and included on the winning team all together. I record that no one is completely satisfied with the amount of the crown, but the data has been given a better profile than the previous year, when it was broken. The value of having an agricultural minister in front that there are now others who are going to contribute to bring down food prices is being welcomed – just not by the representative Morten Lund of the Senterpartiet. He had to be in a dark hour when he wrote his post – as usual. Now, economic operators have a government council, which is primarily the Minister of Agriculture, but also does not have the power to engage in confrontations with the wholesale and retail sectors. All tend to it, including farmers, as consumers, but also by being able to take out the target prices for their production. When the month of July begins, the food mom will be halved. It's going to be interesting to see how it's going to affect demand. I hope that the Council of State will continue to be watchful. There was an emphatic situation in Europe in the past. Mouth and claustrophy and jealousy are raging. Measures were put in, and a focus was on safe and safe food and wanted one. Prevention measures are also included in the agreement of the year. Good labelling of Norwegian production will increase demand for Norwegian products. I thought the Workers' Party's commitment to increasing organic production was good. So I want to name the value creation program. The bet that one made last year was very well received. That is why this budget line is increasing. Many people want to make use of the economic framework to prepare for a new working day. Nissan production and potential to strengthen its nutritional basis make it a turning point for pessimism. The working party is very satisfied that the agreement is in port. The angle of who would get the most has been an influence on organizations. I note that the centre has also not flung ahead with over-exploitation policy in a election year. I note that the right-hand side will provide political leadership that would upset Bygde-Noreg, giving the most to them with the greatest economies of scale. I am pleased with the soundness of the multiplicity of the nutrition committee presented in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1780	The distance between demands and offers in this year's agricultural negotiations was great. There is also the distance between annual incomes in agriculture and other groups. In fact, I was surprised and a little relieved that the parties reached a agreed agreement this year. Clearly, the agricultural negotiating committee has shown a good willingness to negotiate. The result is a piece from the primary requirement for the trade unions, but it is clear that it is preferable in relation to the offer. However, the agreement did not give the industry the necessary revenue promise, but one income per year. annual work of approx. NOK 160 000. In the last three years, the increase in income will be around NOK 15 000, compared with NOK 38 000 in the comparison group. This is alarming both for the recruitment to industry and the maintenance and modernisation of the operating apparatus. Even more people have to go down or become part-time farmers. It should also be noted that a significant proportion of the income growth in 2000 was due to buying-in of milk quotas, an income growth that goes largely to those who are stepping down. But let me mention some positive elements of the agreement. The reduction in the bottom deduction is positive, especially for minor uses. The continuation of the requirement for holiday and leisure relief is part of and ensures a good welfare system, such as: is important for recruitment. The removal of the documentation requirement proposed by the State could have resulted in farmers choosing not to take vacations in the difficult economic situation in which agriculture is located. This would have weakened welfare schemes that have taken decades to build up. In order to maintain healthy food production and ensure ecological development in agriculture, it is important to maintain the main features of the structure of use. Farming with versatile production contributes to the good use of local resources and is important to take care of. Versatileness, with combined livestock and plant production, is also central to organic farming. Animal feeders in Europe have demonstrated our vulnerability and dependence on producing food on nature’s premises. The attitude towards safe food and Norwegian food is strengthened. A unanimous nutrition committee underlines the importance of having a national food production and considers that requirements for cheaper food should not be met at the expense of food safety requirements produced in an environmentally sustainable manner, with strict animal welfare requirements. This contrasts with the economic realities of agriculture. If we are to have a variety of agriculture throughout the country, which ensures just animal health and food safety, it must necessarily cost money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1797	Let me first say that it is good that there was an agreement between the state and the farmers' organisations, although the result is a continued strangulation of the business operators' framework conditions. What concerns me most, however, is the recruitment. There are alarmingly few applicants for traditional agricultural training. In this brief article I would like to say a little bit about organic farming, which is central to the agreement. Let me start by saying that our small-scale agriculture can be said in many ways to be close to organic production compared to other countries where agriculture is highly industrialised. In mountain areas, in particular, with a high level of small livestock farming, land resources are still being used well. This is important, not only ecologically, but also in order to preserve the cultural landscape, an important element also seen with tourism eyes. The centre party believes it is important to turn all production in a more ecological direction. The danger, however, by switching to something completely new is that one may reject all the old as useless. Then we should ask the question, how did it happen, for example? agriculture without artificial fertilisers, which Norway was able to develop almost 100 years ago? I think this is part of the history description. I've noticed that the committee in the configuration says it's an ambitious target reaching 10 pst. the agricultural area shall be organic by 2010. That's approximately equal to that. 800 use. If this is to succeed, there is a need for sufficient knowledge of organic farming. In addition, information needs to be provided so that, in particular, children and young people, who are the future consumers, are given insight into what it means to grow food according to ecological principles, including at a price. Having said that, I think it is necessary to provide more general information on food and food production. Today it's just focused on the demand for cheaper food, despite having the cheapest food of all neighboring countries measured by income. Through the school system, it is best to ensure the dissemination of knowledge on organic farming. Today this is disseminated in several different disciplines, while peak competence exists at the natural application lines, in particular at lines that have ecology as their main objective. Organic farming is not just about a way of farming, but it is based on a holistic approach such as: includes the proper use of natural resources. I believe it is essential to have schools/centres of excellence for organic farming in several places in the country, so that knowledge can be made more easily available. Because even if you can go online and read to a lot, it is actually that agriculture is practiced in nature – on the garden, on the pastures, on the chair or on the seat. That's where one gets the full insight into how the processes are going. Let me give you some examples: Even agricultural and horticultural schools in Aurland have a landline of organic farming. I am also aware that something similar is being done in Brønnøy municipality in Northernland. I hope the Government will be involved and help you succeed in this. Moreover, it is Norway's agricultural high school, NLH, that educates most advisers, teachers and researchers in the agricultural field, and these will be very central players if we are to achieve the target of 10 pst. organic production by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1816	So late, a person should not really take the word twice, but even if I may be misunderstood, I must say that the Council of State tempted me about ability: there were simply two questions he did not answer – but he answered the question of income development. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the five different areas should work together in relation to the development of income. But it's not like they can all be taken out right away. There's something that's going to take time, so you're going to have to slow down even more if you can't do a lot of other things. When it comes to the value creation program, for which the Council of State is to have all the praise, it is a long way to go before one can take a wound. One should do it anyway, I'm completely in line with the council there. But I think he's too strong in the way he argues when he says that this will lead to the development of income -- with these five points -- being in line with other groups, and maybe another gap can also be repeated. This is impossible. Then I would like to get an answer from the Council of State to what the representative of Kongshaug brought up – two of the things he raised. It is a liability for the calculation of income trends. One should have a fixed set of rules, a constant understanding of how this should be done, because there is a tendency to choose what is right – is the best income development one year, well one, it's another year, so well one. It's probably different governments, so I'm not here to criticise the Council of State. But I want to ask him if he agrees that it would make sense to reach an agreement on this. The other question he has not answered relates to the price of vegetables, because this is obviously a major problem – it looks like one has interpreted an EU regulation. Will the Council of State take a strong initiative to sympathize with the meetings of green traders and trade unions here? So I'm once trying to say something about the United Nations year that I think is exciting, because there's a lot of business development here -- there's a lot of quality of life in using nature and using mountains. And as far as I understand, it has not been of particular interest to the Government to promote this UN year. I thought one should. If it is the case that the Council of State has not been away from this matter, I accept it, but then I hope he comes up here and says that he will go into it, and then he will see to it that something is done about it. One more thing -- I have 5 seconds left -- is just milk quotas. Of course, we accept that a selection has been created, but the Christian People's Party has opposed cannibalism among the farmers when it comes to milk quotas, and it needs a lot to make the selection manage to overestimate us. So initially, we're very sceptical about the sale of milk quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1832	Under the heading «Other policy areas», St.prp. No 92 referenced to St.meld. No 34 for 2000-2001, on rural and regional policy. It is said that the gender and life-phase perspective is an institution for the development of robust societies. And in the document we're dealing with tonight, the following is confirmed: ‘The development of equal opportunities and recruitment in agriculture is slow.’ But it is then that an important commitment to recruitment is positive talk, it is people who enjoy their work, who know that they are respected and valued, who feel that they are being offered income in accordance with the efforts they make, and in accordance with the income trends of other groups. The central government presented proposals for two agricultural policy operations that gave rise to agricultural optimism. St. pp. No 39 for 1999-2000. Unfortunately, this year’s government offer shows that the Labour Party is not facing a clear rise in parallel income development in agriculture compared to other groups. In other words, the working party, otherwise taken from the incomes of different groups of employees, will have to deal with the farmers in a special class – they will go down into income at a time when everyone else is getting a say in their incomes. It becomes strange when the Labour Party is almost wondering that equality and recruitment are slow – it may seem that there is actually a desire for policies on the part of the Labour Party. With what we are now seeing in Europe, one would believe that the Minister of Agriculture would be particularly busy facilitating the production of Norwegian quality food that Norwegian agriculture could contribute even more to whether he sympathized with greater optimism and the threat of the future. In the option of St.meld. No 34 says the Workers' Party's aim is to maintain the main features of the construction pattern and the equivalent living conditions throughout the country. At least they could be at the joint promises of the Workers' Party and the Centre in connection with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. In the communicator, there's a new screw. At that time, the appeal to the agricultural offices in the municipalities is changed, which poses the greatest threat to the guidance that would also contribute to optimism and to the threat of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1850	Whether it is the Council of State or it is Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that contributes to optimism in Norwegian agriculture, others have to decide. But I don't think exactly there was a lot of faith in the future in the last article. I believe that we are now systematically working on important areas where we see opportunities for Norwegian agriculture — for example. the value creation programme and organic farming. In areas by region, there is now a systematic effort to strengthen the competitive situation of Norwegian agriculture. So we're going to have to disagree about that, but that's at least what's the starting point. What made me take the floor was Jon Lilletun, who asked so many questions in his reply that I did not have time to answer everyone. So I'm going to do it now. I have not said that it is just the five areas that I mentioned in my main post, which are intended to provide income – increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes, reasonable cost adjustments and a focus on good use of market opportunities. There should be one piece of work, and agriculture must take care of it. In addition, State and agricultural agreements must contribute. For this reason, the agricultural agreement of the year also contributes to the income development of around DKK 1⁄2 billion – in the form of an increase in target prices of around 300 million. $40 million. kr in the increase in the budget and redeployments under the Agreement on Agriculture in order to have an effect on income, which together amount to approximately DKK 1⁄2 billion That's what the state has put in. Then a VAT reform has been introduced from 1 July, worth NOK 6.5 billion. And then you point to some other possibilities. The sum of it should be able to provide income opportunities for agriculture next year in line with other groups. If we are to assume that the state's contribution to the future agricultural negotiations is to go beyond what is in total relative to agriculture this year, I think we are giving very unrealistic signals to agriculture. I then look at everything that the state does this year towards agriculture in order to provide income opportunities into the future. So I would say in relation to the question that both Kongshaug and Lilletun have raised, that I think it would be completely wrong to establish a fixed point. I also thought that was very clear in St.meld. No 19th@item: The way in which agricultural operations have been carried out in recent years is to see income trends over time in order to form the best possible images. Establishing a fixed point I think would be very wrong. As for the UN year, I'm going to take the offer from Lilletun to go into it more closely, and then get back to it. About the unit price, I would like to say that we will follow up the comment on taking this up with the Competition Authority. The Minister of Labour and Administration will do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1870	I know that it's not the way to become popular with extending the meeting, but I want to comment that the minister was so indignant about criticism in terms of bets on organic farming. I would like to say that it is not just to spend money on organic farming, because there are issues that arise when you are betting on organic farming as a niche production. The concept of ecology is also questionable in relation to sustainable development. Among other things, we have a huge problem with creating two distribution lines in Norwegian agriculture. It is important in the further formulation of agricultural policy to discuss the relationship between rural policy and ecology, or whether to choose organic farming as a niche. If, for example: looking at the investment in organic farming in North Norway, we are facing a major problem in distribution and transport. Even now, in conventional agriculture, there is no economic basis for having the decentralised distribution system that we have. I would also like to say that one of the major ecological issues in Norwegian food production is the use of grazing resources in Norway, where perhaps the most important agricultural policy issue is what we do with our predatory policy, and the treatment that that matter will receive in the next period, in 2003. So you can't simplify the ecological concept of only niche production. The ecological challenge is all about food production, and the ambition is to make it more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1881	Just for the last debate: I understand that the Council of State does not understand the signal that SV wants to give, namely that SV wants to be the best member of the Council of State in terms of ecology. The question I put to the Council of State was whether he thought that the strategy of taking out extra prices in the market was a good strategy when you wanted to develop what the Council of State said was part of the future for Norwegian agriculture. He didn't answer that. Instead, he was quite indignant because he had actually made a better offer than it was possible to make room for this year's settlement, and I understand that. I see it as positive that the Council of State wants to do something about it. But my question pointed out more in the future: are you going to continue this strategy, which we think is counterproductive in relation to the goal you have? Can it not be seen that, during a transitional period, a different policy is needed to achieve this? In addition to that, I very much agree with what Karlstrøm said, that there is something to think about in addition to what is a niche, and you have to look at a plan for the exploitation of land parcels to produce organic food. There are conflict areas where good environmental things stand against each other, i.e. sustainable predator management and organic food production. We may not be able to escape those conflicts, even though they are difficult and heavy for many parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1888	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1902	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each, one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1911	The reindeer management agreement concluded for 2001-2002 has a framework of 103 million. kr. In addition, an allocation of 3,5 million is set aside. kr to cover the cost of radioactivity. Within the framework, there are 7 million set aside. kr to a separate value creation programme for the reindeer management of the Reind drifts Development Fund. And then there's $12 million left over. on the Reinholding Development Fund for the redemption of holdings and other structural measures in districts, with the need for measures for the adjustment of the number of holdings and the number of holdings. The agreement takes into account the main challenges facing the reprocessing industry. I have noticed that the Sametinge is saying, among other things. the following: The merger is satisfied that the parties to the agreement reached a mutually agreed result during the year's contract negotiations. The scope of the clean-up contract has increased from 93 million. SEK to 103 million. kr. The main objective of the agreement is to stimulate the highest possible value creation within the given framework, to adapt the number of holdings to the resource base through economic instruments and to contribute to the distribution of income. Likewise, the Sameting stated that it is satisfied that 20 million have been set aside outside the reindeer management agreement. DKK for one-off aid for crisis response in parts of Finnmark and Troms. These funds were adopted during the process of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. S. No 224 for 2000-2001 earlier this spring. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee agree that the main objective of the Agreement is to stimulate maximum value creation within the given frameworks, to adapt the number of holdings to the resource base through the economic instruments provided and to contribute to the increase in income. This is important in order to maintain the overall objectives of ecological, economic and culturally sustainable clean-up. Organic balance is a prerequisite for the future of the industry. A diet of ecological imbalances has no possibility of achieving neither economic nor cultural sustainability. Water management has very long traditions in Norway. It is the only industry that is a pure Sami industry. An important step has been taken in the agreement to ensure a future-oriented industry by the agreement to establish a value creation programme for reindeer management. We believe this in the Labour Party will strengthen the income base of industry through increased processing and further development of products based, among others. knowledge and culture of the industry. The possibilities are many. The commitment to women-settled measures has been agreed by the contracting parties to be continued through earmarked funds. The participation of women in reindeer management is important both culturally and socially and can in the long term be a prerequisite for the continued operation of the industry. Although the challenges are many, solutions need to be found. The solutions must be found through continued interaction and dialogue between stakeholders. This arrangement is an example of such interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1934	The clean-up contract of the year is a good deal. At least the NRL has stated that they are very satisfied – I was there at the recent national meeting. The new thing in this agreement is the value creation programme, and I very much welcome that. It's going to be very exciting to see in the future what you can get out of this program. The programme shall not only operate around meat, but also around skins, horns and other traditional raw materials. We should have had this complementary nutrition strategy ten years ago, and I feel in many ways that we have lost ten years – ten years that we should have spent on complementary industries, we have lost with the conversion programme. We've spent a lot of money on measures that I think we might later question. I also believe it is important in this work that projects – development projects, competence projects – be included at the side level. Many people have learned that when they start tourism projects or other projects that break the tradition, the others on the page can react negatively in different ways. So starting development programs at the side level or the reindeer district level I think is the right way to do it. In the reindeer districts, they have also been assigned to put an upper ceiling on the reindeer number. I believe that the best way to use grazing resources is to find out, and also to get good cooperation programmes in the page or the reindeer districts. We should also be a little careful about taking out too much labour in reindeer operations, because a number of operations in this industry require quite a lot of manual work, i.e. a lot of labour. Several holdings have actually experienced difficulties in working because they have become too alone. The additional food available could also be given priority to those districts where the upper reindeer number has been agreed, i.e. priority is given to those reindeer districts where the average is very low. I also think one should be a bit bold and a little offensive in finding new arrangements within the legislation that are now to be designed for food labelling schemes, and to facilitate that mountain-slaughter can also be traded cleanly on a local market or as a niche product. We, who live in Finnmark, know that this is sold directly to the consumer, and we Finnmarkings prefer to buy something that we can get directly from the manufacturer. So here's a consumer quality assessment, but in today's system, this turnover is not approved. So we want you to be a little offensive here to get this into legal forms. I would finally like to address this with the use of labour in connection with moving in the spring. I think it's important to go in and support highly labour-intensive operations in order to be able to maintain some environmentally friendly traditions. And the thing about moving to the coast like grazing – using the time it takes, three-four weeks, moving with the family – is a tradition you have to take care of and fence around. I actually think that taking care of the sims that are going to calve, in a good way, is a prerequisite for this industry to still be animal friendly. I support this year's reindeer management agreement. It's good, and it's going to be exciting to follow up the results. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1955	Randi Karlstrøm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1958	If we go through this year's agreement and study it carefully, there's only one arrow pointing upwards, and that's the government contribution to the reindeer industry. The other factors that can be measured in figures show a development that is not predicted. And I think that after taking some rounds of Norwegian reindeer policy, we should make up the kind of status that we can say a little bit cautiously that it has more or less played down. And at least it shouldn't continue with that as a starting point that we're going to add to the state contribution by 20-30 pst. per 1 % years. That's actually the case to an even greater extent this year than it was last year. When it happens at the same time that we see that the industry gets paid out for work and equity that falls by an equal percentage as the state contribution goes up, it doesn't go up. We also see developments in the loss of slaughter weight going the wrong way – especially in West Finland. All the beautiful objectives flagged by this Assembly on behalf of the industry are not as expected and decided. We see that the reindeer in Finnmark is more or less halved in ten to twelve years. Although the number has been halved, the grazing conditions have not improved, rather the opposite. We get more and more broken winter pastures, and we see that the calves die too much of hunger or fatigue. In many contexts, the concept of tragedies is not too strongly used in this regard. I do not want to criticize anyone to any particular extent with my introduction to this debate, but when I registered that the parties to the agreement – i.e. the state and the NRL – did not last year have the power to agree on an upper reindeer figure, I found it regrettable. Even more regrettable is the fact that the parties to this agreement have chosen to withdraw the point in the agreement that has affected it by setting an upper figure. That's very regrettable. Because that's where we have to start. To achieve sustainability in the development of harmony between the number of animals and grazing grounds, some have to take this issue much more seriously than they have done so far. When the Storting decided last year to ask the Government, in cooperation with the reindeers, to set an upper reindeer figure for each district, there must be reason today to ask the question: What has been done? What was the result, and where do we see the follow-up? At the same time, last year, the Stortinget also requested the Government to go through the Rein driftsvervaltung, the public administration, both centrally and locally. The question here that I hope the Council of State can answer, if he is to have the floor in the debate, is: what has been done? What was the result? My point is that today's reindeer management policy in the direction of the state is going too full machine in the wrong direction. We can't go on like this either economically, ecologically or environmentally, because it only carries in a direction that none of us want at last.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1969	The Progress Party fundamentally disagrees with today's reindeer management policy. Grant and regulatory arrangements have worked against their purpose because they create more problems than they solve. It was in the mid-1970s that the politicians found out that reindeer operations were to be a state support area, and a reindeer management agreement was established. During this period many young people entered the reindeer business, had expectations and invested heavily. But the negative results soon turned out. The aid schemes contributed to a significantly higher number of professionals than the nutritional basis added, with too many clean and degraded nature. The result was both economic and environmental problems. In fact, the reindeer meat had twice the value before the reindeer agreement came in 1976. The big community increased its payments, and prices went down. Or another way of saying, we have a school example of how the plan economy works. First, the Storting decides that reindeer management should be stimulated by increased State subsidies. In the next round, it turns out that subsidies do not work because there are too many clean compared to the grazing basis. First, support and regulatory arrangements are being built up that do not work, and in the next round, some of the same politicians need to support new measures for dwindling, as an attempt to address the problems they themselves face. We've got a system where virtually no one is satisfied, neither the reindeer trials, where a good deal is struggling with the economy, nor the taxpayers who have to pay the bill for political experiments all the time. Another consequence is the environmental problems. Researchers, including: in Norway’s geological survey, the reindeer management has identified a greater threat to vegetation in the northern regions than the emissions from Nikel. Degradation caused by reindeer has damaged more than 70 pst. of the ecosystem to a greater or lesser extent on Finnmark. Much of the damage will be irreversible in a time perspective of several decades. The erosion processes that have begun due to overgrazing may end with the desert of Finnmarkswirdda. Norwegian, Russian and Finnish researchers have worked together with research here. Satellite images from the past 25 years clearly show that more and more areas have been destroyed. When the herd of reindeer eats or tramples down the vegetation over large areas, rain and wind can then wash away the soil and no new vegetation gets attached. The Progress Party therefore considers it urgent to change the reindeer management policy. If the reindeer is not adapted to the grazing basis, overgrazing may continue to end with the desert of Finnmarksvidda. Finnmark has not served, and the Progress Party has warned against time and time again. We have constantly foreshadowed that a transition to a market-based system will stimulate a necessary reduction in the flock compared to the available grazing resources. We achieve a slimming down of the industry, while at the same time making the remaining jobs safer and less dependent on public support. If we reduce public responsibility and concentrate on sound resource management, the reindeer industry will have positive development opportunities for those who continue in the profession. Now the big community must choose, either the state-subsidized but environmentally destructive chaos or the free market with fewer actors, but where grazing resources are harvested in a sustainable way. In the future, it will be unsustainable for reindeers to be totally dependent on an unforeseeable political will to continue subsidising. Only through almost equal treatment with other industries and industries will profitable production be found. It will be the only permanent and credible basis for settlement. If you really want to offer a national minority good opportunities and hope for the future for your youth, this is the way to go. In this way, we can get a development away from a one-sided commercial reserve and from greater variation in job offers and opportunities required by young people in particular not to leave the districts. This applies regardless of language and cultural background. The Progress Party will oppose the proposed allocations on the cap. 1151 as a result of the grubbing-up contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e1986	The primary objective of the reindeer management policy is to facilitate reindeer management, which is ecological, economic and culturally sustainable, and which is responsible for animal welfare. It is a fact that the challenges facing industry and management are many and comprehensive. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Business Committee is in line with the Government's policy, as expressed in the proposal for the 2001-2002 Restructuring Agreement. The resource base of the sewage treatment plant is threatened for several reasons. A significant increase in predatory losses with subsequent production failures and problems related to land use interventions remains in most grazing areas. However, there are also significant regional differences. In Finnmark, the lack of clear framework conditions with regard to reindeer and grazing areas has resulted in a critical resource situation, particularly in West Finland. The main challenge will therefore be to put the framework conditions in place. The members of the Committee from the Right consider that the redundancy regulation must become a central element of the redundancy agreement. To that I would like to remind you that this is exactly what has been tried in the last 10–15 years, and then without success. Therefore, the clean-up regulation under the Act of Purity was withdrawn from the agreement last year. The river management has now provided the basic material so that the river management board can determine the upper reindeer figures for the districts of Finnmark. The territorial controllers will then be able to follow this up by setting the upper reindeer per. a holding in which the reindeer owners do not agree on the distribution of the reindeer of the district. So a little bit about the agreement itself. The agreement has increased the scope from 83 million to 103 million. kr. The main objective of the agreement is to stimulate the highest possible value creation in the industry within a given framework, to adapt the number of holdings to the resource base and to contribute to the distribution of income. The agreement has taken an important step to ensure a forward-looking reintroduction industry by agreeing to establish a reintroduction programme. In this year’s agreement, the programme has a financial framework of 7 million. kr. In preparing the basis for this programme, several actors have made representations, including researchers, management and industry. I believe that this programme will in the long run strengthen the reindeer industry by triggering creativity and entrepreneurship, and for some time create new jobs. In my view, an important challenge is to use industry’s culture, distinctiveness and tradition in a commercial context with the aim of ensuring the industry’s higher value creation related to production. Mean percent per. the holding is low in some parts of the northernmost grazing areas. This also applies to parts of those areas that have too high a purity in relation to grazing resources. The necessary reduction of the purity in these areas cannot be achieved at the same time as the economic basis for all existing holdings is maintained. The arrangements for the redemption of holdings and other structural measures in districts, with the need for measures for the adjustment of the number of holdings and the reindeer numbers, have therefore been significantly strengthened in the agreement with an increase of 8 million. NOK 12 million. kr. In addition to the value creation programme and the redemption of holdings, the increase in the contract framework has been applied in two areas. The direct income subsidies have been adapted to bring a greater proportion of reindeer operators into line with the instruments of the agreement. In addition, 1 million has been added. kr for the continuation of women-settled measures in reindeer management. By doing so, I believe that this year's reindeer management agreement follows the objectives of the reindeer management policy in a good way, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2007	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2021	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2036	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2050	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2064	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2078	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2092	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2106	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2120	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2129	Then I was delighted to start the final question today. Travel industry is of great importance in Norway, and this industry is among the largest industries in a number of countries. Norwegian tourism peaked in 1998, and everyone thought that the increase in industry would continue. This has not been the case, and it is mainly the foreigners who are failing the Norwegian tourism industry. However, the domestic market has contributed positively. With a heated Norwegian economy, with pressure on prices and wages that we get reports of these days, inflation in Norway may be higher than in countries with which we compete. It is a fact that Norway is not and has not been a destination that attracts travellers because there are low prices. So the risk of the price difference increasing is present. According to the proposal for a decision in this case, the Government is asked to submit a five-year plan of escalation for the brand construction of Norway as a travel destination. This is supported by a unanimous committee. However, when the majority finds that this is justified by the fact that the government has repeatedly cut the appropriations, one must be able to say that it is taken seriously. One should remember that the Stoltenberg government has presented one proposal for a State budget. Looking a little back in the time of the central government, the funding for international marketing went down by $6 million. DKK from 1998 to 1999, from 88 million. kr and down to 82 mill. kr, a decrease of close to 7 pst. So it is best that we all celebrate for our own door in this matter. The positive must be that no matter who sits in government, and no matter how many governments we get for the next five years, there is unanimity to get a longer-term bet than the story shows, as I have now described. The Industry Committee visited Germany during the World Expo 2000 and had professional experiences of travel life both in Hamburg and in Hanover. It was found that the industry wanted a long-term commitment to marketing. At the same time, there was concern that we could be too expensive, even if expensive products were possible to sell if the product was good enough. This must be an important signal to the industry itself, product and service must be of high quality. It would hurt if it was advertised for a product that did not keep what the advertisement said. It is therefore also appropriate to focus on national efforts to improve Norwegian tourism products. In Ireland, there are strict requirements for obtaining a national approval as a recommended destination or site of visit and for having received this approval, the site is checked at regular intervals. It is then a quality stamp to be able to use the Irish national symbol, the three-leaf white clover, or, as the flower is called in Ireland, shamrock. The Shamrock has become a very well-known quality symbol for travellers in Ireland. In this context, it may be appropriate to mention that during the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000, the profitable and competitive tourism industries, emphasised a majority in the Committee that there was a need to identify models for the powerful financing of common resources. A «tourist tax» scheme was to be investigated. The assumption was that this would be managed and financed by the industry itself. This can in a way be compared to different ways of getting money for research, as the Economic and Social Committee has dealt with measures for agriculture and fish in the past. If one did it the same way, because a small part of the turnover went to such a development fund for the industry, 1 per million of total turnover would be 50 million. kr. In that case, the industry must decide for itself, without any such ‘tourist tax’ being levied or managed by the State. Finally, it can be noted that when we discuss travel life, there is of course the most talk about people, foreign or Norwegian, who are travelling and who use the travel life products across the whole country. Less attention is given to the positive effects of this industry on many communities. Tourism facilities are also very useful to the local population, both as a place of visit and service and in the form of local jobs. In many places, tourist businesses are local engines in more than the development of travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2155	Travel industry is everywhere in our country, and the tourism industry really means a lot to the districts. The Travel Information Service addressed the main problem to all the industries and all the activities related to this industry, namely profitability. And one of the most important ways to increase the profitability of this industry is to make it more professional and more systematic in marketing. The Communication said very clearly that we need more money to create more benefits, and we need to make the marketing of Norway more systematic – in short: we need to do something with travel life in Norway, and we need to bet. If we compare internationally, Norway spends little money on marketing, so to get us a profile in the international market and to make a positive image, we have to bet. We have to do it on a planned basis, and we have to make use of those companies that are going to increase their profitability. That is why I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of a five-year plan for the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2164	After the very positive treatment we had a couple of years ago of the travel news, there was a rather coherent committee and a co-ordinated magnification that agreed on the objective. We came almost literally well out of hope. But then the follow-up to the travel news has gone more or less in the forgotten book, and it is likely today relatively uninteresting whether it is the Bondevik government or the Stoltenberg government that has failed in the follow-up. It is only to note that we have not followed up what was the main conclusion, to invest in the international brand construction of Norway as a tourist destination and concept. This is an industry that is developing completely differently in Norway from what we see in our neighbouring countries in Europe and in the rest of the international travel market. There we see a growth increase of 5-10 pst. in countries with which comparison is natural, whereas the factors of domestic unfortunately have negative variants as a sign above all. Vulnerable is the travel industry especially in District Norway. It has a value creation that is significant, as large as the primary industries combined, and a much larger employment. It is an industry which employs mainly women, but which is still characterised by relatively low average profitability. That is why I am pleased that the proposers, Mr Sponheim and my colleague, Mr Kongshaug, have now actually received a majority in favour of their proposal. It is not a proposal annexed to the Protocol but a proposal which obliges the Government to propose follow-up in the future budget. There's every reason to pull out. As I said in a statement, I think that you should not concentrate so much on following up the concept of "tourist tax". I'm pretty sure that if we succeed in brand construction, and if we succeed in getting growth and development within travel life, get a visit from abroad, the tourists will still have the opportunity to get sufficient awareness of the Norwegian tax and tax level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2175	The positive trend we had in the first half of the 1990s for travel life has been replaced by stagnation or much lower growth. This is worrying, especially in the districts, how many travel businesses are struggling with low profitability. The tourism industry has a significant impact on the Norwegian economy and employment with significant foreign currency performance through the purchase of tourism services by non-residents in Norway. It is a significant industry with a high growth potential. Therefore, the Progress Party wants a much higher level of funding for the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination to remedy this. We have been prioritizing increased appropriations in this area for many years because we believe it is one of the most important pieces that needs to be in place to succeed. At the state budget for the current year, we proposed an increase of 20 million. to the international marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. Furthermore, this area was accounted for in our foreign budget by 200 million. kr to tourism advertising abroad for the 2001 budget. The report of the Selnes Committee provides exactly the same advice: enhanced international profiling and marketing will help improve industry profitability, among others. through greater willingness to pay and better channelling of traffic to less attractive seasons. The Progress Party believes that international marketing in the future will have a greater impact on the tourist directly through branding and information and to a lesser extent on the tourist through the intermediary. International marketing has not been sufficiently targeted at the construction of brands. Profiling performance and heavier brand construction have not been sufficiently achieved. However, international promotion of travel destinations requires an intensive and long-term relationship building both against the tourism industry and consumers. It is and will be a tough fight about the market shares of one of the world's largest industries, and the lack of investment will mean Norway lags behind in ever-increasing international competition. Nor has it been easy for the industry with the more or less random cuts in the appropriations it has experienced, and the reason for it. The industry’s investment ambition may also be limited because the lack of stability and predictability of the authorities creates considerable uncertainty. This is happening as some other countries increasingly view marketing as a long-term process. For example, when you have: in Denmark, providing security through three-year budgets, Norway is going the opposite way. Aggressive and resource-rich efforts for high-profile tourist countries yield positive results, while Norwegian tourism efforts are drowned by a lack of resources. This is sad, and in our opinion it is also completely unnecessary. I will give honor to the Left, who has raised this matter. It is also gratifying that the entire Committee is gathered behind a proposal for the Government to present a five-year stepping-up plan for the promotion of Norway as a travel destination, at the latest, together with proposals for the government budget for the next year. There will be positive signals to the industry that can give optimism in a difficult time. Nor should we forget that there is already considerable investment in the industry at home. There is a large and untapped potential that can be realised through heavier and more targeted marketing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2188	The proposal adopted here today on a five-year roadmap for the brand construction of Norway as a destination, in the light of the Left Document No. Eight proposals are a political breakthrough for one of Norway's most important, but perhaps least targeted industries. Norwegian industrial policy has traditionally been about safeguarding the interests of the major players, those with strong organisations and political forces in their backs. There aren't so many of them in travel, especially in the districts. Travel is a typical small business industry and therefore an industry that is easily translated into traditional industrial policy, although it employs more than 150 000 people in Norway. This was the background to the initiative of the central government and former Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim for a self-report on the tourism industry. The travel industry demonstrated that increased profitability and competitiveness are essential for the success of the tourism industry in the years to come. Enterprises that are unable to achieve increased profitability will fall short because they are unable to attract labour or investment. A key strategy in this Communication to increase profitability was to step up efforts to profile Norway as a travel destination and brand abroad. This was approved by Stortinget, but the sitting governments have not followed up. Both in the revised budget for 2000 and in the draft budget for 2001, the Government proposes to reduce the appropriations for Norway’s profiling. Together with the proposal to add VAT to travel life and introduce 1.5 pst. an additional employer’s fee was taken in the wrong direction. Fortunately, all these proposals were rejected by Stortinget. However, preventing harmful proposals is not, of course, good enough if travel businesses that are struggling with small profitability margins and failure of the tourist flow are to regain confidence in the future. It is unsustainable that the Storting must intervene at each crossroads in order to prevent the introduction of aggravating Norwegian travel conditions, while all our main competitors are setting up their marketing efforts. Therefore, Norwegian tourism needs to be guaranteed a long-term and predictable investment in Norway as a tourist destination, in line with the strategy set out in the Travel Life Communication. The majority, all except the Workers' Party, say in this setting that the short-term objective must be to achieve a level of international marketing at least at the level of a bet by our neighbouring countries. It is very pleased with the Left, and it is a very necessary measure to secure the future of much of the Norwegian travel industry. I assume that the Government will comply with the unanimous proposal of the Committee that a five-year escalation plan be presented at the latest together with the State budget for 2002 and that the State Council will confirm it in its statement. So a little bit to the question of tourist tax. The left considers that if the industry itself is willing to contribute significantly increased funds to joint brand construction, e.g.: by means of a tourist tax, the State must undertake to correspond to this with at least an equal degree of escalation of the public contribution. I would like to stress that it is not appropriate for the Left to impose a tourist tax on travel life. Where appropriate, this initiative must come from the industry itself and, if it comes, the Left shall be ready to follow it up with significant State resources in a common fissure layer. Finally, it is gratifying that a unanimous committee is behind the committee's recommendation. It should provide expectations and predictability for Norwegian travel and optimism for businessmen. In this late evening this is a great victory for an industry with a great potential – Norwegian travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2207	In recent times, there has been an engaged discussion of the strategic effort of the Norwegian Tourist Council to establish Norway’s position as a ‘brand’ in selected segments of the travel market. In my opinion, it is of great importance that such an important profiling be discussed in depth within the tourism industry before taking a position on how to design a possible five-year escalation plan. The cost aspects of it must also be thoroughly investigated. I believe in a continued strong commitment to brand construction and that it could have a major impact on the tourism industry. It is about making Norway visible both nationally and internationally. There is a close link between brand construction and the travel life portal that the Tourist Council is building up. Brandware construction shall generate attention and interest for Norway in priority markets, while visitingnorway.com shall provide product information and make ready-to-order products available in an easy-to-order and efficient manner. This will give more direct marketing to consumers. As part of this, the Tourist Council has established close cooperation with the tourism industry in all parts of the country, while establishing a dedicated flagship forum with the participation of 20 central travel organisations and businesses. These cover geographically important tourism regions. Brand construction is primarily a responsibility for the industry. As other industries, the tourism industry has a separate responsibility for marketing its own products. The individual travel business must be conscious of its responsibilities and contribute good products adapted to the ever-increasing needs of tourists for experiences, services and accessibility. The industry must also contribute financial resources to the joint international marketing of Norway. The Selnes Committee suggested in its report what a brand construction plan could cost. It states that the total State grant for international marketing should be increased to 300 million. kr in three years, and then kept predictable at this level for a period of three to five years. It goes without saying that such a comprehensive plan would require thorough preparatory work both in the Tourist Council and in industry before any decision on implementation can be taken. Of the allocation to the Tourist Council for the current year, it is set at 16.5 million. kr in direct support for brand construction. For other activities, it's set at 70 million. kr. So this is already a significant activity on the part of the authorities in this area. The Government will, on the basis of today's decision by the Storing Council, ask the Tourist Council to start a dialogue with the industry with a view to further clarifying the existing plans in terms of profiling, food aid and financing. This process will have to go further in 2001. The aim must be to complete the work in order to return to the State budget for 2002. However, it is of great importance that a person should be given sufficient time to bring with him the main weight of the industry in any bet, so that it gets the necessary anchoring. The Committee has also raised the issue of the introduction of «tourist tax». In order to explore alternative models for a possible ‘tourist tax’, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the National Association of Travel Companies and the National Subcommittee of Nord-Norway and Nord-Trøndelag have cooperated on a mandate for an investigation that has now been sent to relevant investigative environments. The aim is to identify models that provide powerful funding for public goods. The size highlighted in the treatment of the wholesale notification that a financing mechanism must include something more than funding for joint marketing and that the initiative for such funding must come from the industry itself. Such a scheme may cover funding for travel infrastructure as a whole, such as: may involve joint marketing both internally in Norway and abroad, tourist information, the marking of sights, roads, tourist sites and other common goods. The conclusions of the planned investigation will be available during 2001 and will then be the subject of discussions and assessments both in the Government and in the tourism industry’s professional organisations before final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2226	The Food Committee of the Grand Duchy provided for in the budget at the latest. S. No 8 for 2000–2001 that the Travel Life Communication strategy for increased focus on Norway’s profiling should be followed up in the coming financial years. It was said that national coordination and long-term investment in Norway as a tourist destination were all necessary measures to ensure the future of this industry. For this reason, Document No. The 8th proposal by the representatives of the Left on a five-year escalation plan at a very appropriate time. It must be said that it was deserving of these representatives that they raised this matter which has received such broad support. There has been every reason to be concerned about the trend we have seen in recent Norwegian travel. When the tourism industry experiences a much lower growth than the development of countries, it is natural to compare with us, then a tighter follow-up to the travel life message will be necessary. In addition to the high level of costs and charges in Norway, the low growth in the industry is due to the lack of international marketing. It is therefore important to follow up the branding of Norway as a travel destination by the Government, so that the need for increased profiling and branding of Norwegian travel life products is followed up, as confirmed by the Council of State in its submission. Nor do I believe that the possible introduction of a new ‘tourist tax’ will be an appropriate contribution to addressing the challenges facing the tourism industry. Like the Right Party and the Progressive Party, I believe that public efforts need to be concentrated on what is referred to as ‘travel infrastructure’, with measures such as joint marketing, information, labelling of tourist sites and a number of joint actions that can serve the industry and lead to better framework conditions. There was also this point the Council of State was in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2239	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2242	Now it's not safe for me to use three minutes. It may be because it is so late in the evening that the memory is a little weak. In the context of the 1999 budgetary procedure, it was the Workers' Party's economic fraction at Kjell Opseth that proposed the creation of its own travel information, and subsequently all parties in the Committee. I would also like to remind you that the travel news was received last June. There is therefore no reason to deprecate the Government's willingness to follow up the decision in the message. As I have said, this message has been processed and the course of action has been follow-up. But I found it positive that the Storting is impatient on behalf of the travel industry. It has reason to take a look at travel activities. So in those words, I just hope that the clarity of the matter is a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2263	Then we're ready for voting. This is a voting process that requires a variety of concentration, but we hope that with joint effort we get the right results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2270	A total of 54 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Lars Rise on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-11 and Nos. 51, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 12, by Lars Rise on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party proposals No. 13–16, by Hans J. Røsjorde, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, proposals Nos. 17-29, by Lars Rise on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 30, 31 and 52, by Mr Godal, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 32-37, by Hans J. Røsjorde, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 38-40, from Vidar Kleppe on behalf of Terje Knudsen, Jørn L. Stang and himself proposal No. 41, by Inger Stolt-Nielsen on behalf of Steinar Bastesen and himself the proposals No. 42 to 46, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 47 to 49, from Jørn L. Stang on behalf of Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and himself proposal No. 50, by Tore Nordseth on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 53, by Lars Rise on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left proposal No. 54, from Hans J. Røsjorde on behalf of the Committee. Proposals Nos. 1–37 is included on pages 62 – 64 of the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 32, from the Party of Advancement, is available in a rich edition distributed in the Chamber. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 38 from the representatives of Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Military activity is maintained in the European Union with initial recruitment training in the HMKG and the establishment of training in the field of hunters also in South Norway.’ The central parties here have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2336	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39, 40, 48 and 49, from the representatives of Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and Jørn L. Stang. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘Marvika shall be maintained as a war station.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘A joint defence defence security administration shall be established in Kristiansand. The central staff of the Swedish Defence Agency in Oslo and the 6 regional departments in Oslo, Hamar, Kristiansand, Bergen, Trondheim, and Harstad shall be laid down.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: «– The Swedish Defence Administration School is fully established at Fredriksten fastening in Halden. [[FFS]] – The Defence Administrative School shall be the Centre of Defence’s Administration and Management Competence. – The Defence Administration School in Halden shall have the professional responsibility/overall coordination, as well as the administrative training at all levels of the Defence. – Administrative education at the highest level shall be conducted in Halden, but may be organisationally located under the Defence Schoollor Akershus Fortress [[FFS]] [[FFS]] [[FSTS II level]] [[FSAF]] Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘Smoking aerodromes shall be continued as an aeroplane station with the stationing of EK calibration aeroplanes and tactical helicopters and be capable of operating fighter aeroplanes.A second flight station shall have a separate school and competence centre.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2374	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42, 43 and 45, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate a differentiated shortening of the term of duty of the protection obligation.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals for its own civil-military department which may be responsible for the remediation of environmental pollution in times of war, crisis and peace.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The eastern valley of Garrison shall consist of Rena clay and Haslemoen. Put down the dice.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2398	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assume that Norwegian forces can only participate in international military operations with a UN mandate.’ Here the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2416	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals which may further limit the possibility of sabotaging those communication and management systems that have an impact on our defence capabilities.’ Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2434	The proposals are then put to the vote. 32, 33 and 34, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 32 sounds in enriched form: ‘1. The common MP training of the defence is established in Stavern 2. The common security obligation management of the defence is established in Harstad’;» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘1. The Joint Administrative School of Defence is established in Stavern.2. Future management training at Staff School II level will be an integral part of FSTS within FSAF.3. The defence information system/personnel competence centre shall be continued in Stavern’.» [[FIS/P-KS]] Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The activities of the Civilian Arms continue on the Walsmoen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2466	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Home Office School and Centre of Competence are established at Heistandmoen. The printed command course for HV continues on Kongswinger. To the extent necessary, Evjemoen, Værnes and Dombås are also used. Torpo shall be brought down.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2480	The proposals Nos shall now be voted on. 17, 19, 26 and 29, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘1. The 334 square drone is restored by Haakonsvern/Flesland as the squadron for the frigate helicopters.2. The 337 squadron shall remain at the Bardufoss air station during the deployment of unit helicopters.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘Kystjegerbildung in South Norway is established at Karljohansvermner’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide about 4,200 people with compulsory protection for the first time in the Home Office every year.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘HUB training is also continued at Kvenvikmoen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2513	The proposals are then put to the vote. 18, 22, 23, 27, from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to dimension the Defence Logistics Organisation so that it can save about 200 million. annual crowns in proportion to the arrangements of the Government.’;» [[FLO]] Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘All administrative training is added to Halden’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the works relating to the Eastern Region of the Region until noise concession issues are finally settled and a new complete estimate of costs has been provided.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there is a reduction in the management structure of the Defence Agency in addition to the regime equivalent to at least 200 million. annual crowns.’» Here the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2546	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 15 and 16, from the Right and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The action force shall be extended to Brigade’.» [[FIST-H]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and to propose the status-enforcement of those under protection there, inter alia. study credits, termination benefits and the tax exemption model are included as instruments.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘1. New fighter aircraft to replace the current F-16 fleet are acquired outside and in addition to the normal budget framework for Defence.2. New transport aircraft to replace the current C-130 fleet are acquired outside and as an addition to the normal budget framework for the Defence.3. The volume of repurchases related to the acquisition of new aeroplanes is assessed on the basis of the current pressure on the Norwegian economy.4. Participation in international operations shall be financed in addition to the ordinary defence budgets.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2579	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Eujemo shall be maintained with the training of soldiers of His Majesty the King’s Guard.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2593	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘You artillerifort and six underwater facilities are phased out.’ [[torpedo/mine]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2607	The remaining minority proposals will be addressed in the context of the vote on the motion for a resolution. We are now in front of what the President will optimistically call a medium-complicated voting. Some signals about the wish to vote are perceived, and the president thinks she's perceived most. She will at least put in what she has perceived, but there is no need to rely blindly on the advice given by the President. This, of course, is the responsibility of each individual. However, the President expects any requested deviations from the President's arrangements to be reported along the way. However, the President would like to be encouraged to show restraint with wishes that will complicate voting further. It's complicated enough as it is. This means that it may be possible to accept subsidiary support for the suspension where one’s own primary proposal has fallen – just as a friendly call.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2661	There is an alternative proposal for this number of Romans, and it is proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The President wants to split the vote, but she wants to start with proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is linked to the future strength structure of the Defence as described in St.prp. No 45 cap. [[2000-2001]] 5.3.5 with the following amendments/additions:A smaller number of Hauk class MTB is retained until 6 ships Shield class is completed. KNM Tyr is retained. The acquisition of new fighter aircraft is being prepared. [[3rd line level]] National Command and Control Organisation is based on existing organisation with 18 districts of territorial responsibility.The structure of the Home Guard shall include 83 000 soldiers.The Ministry of Defence shall be authorised to implement the changes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2696	The vote will take place at the I, and the President will now proceed point-by-point. So let's start with the points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. Here, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2707	Let's move on to points 4, 8 and 9. Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote in favour, while the Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2716	And then it goes over points 7, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2736	There is an alternative proposal here, and it is proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority proposes to terminate the Defence Command and to establish the Defence Staff and bring together the strategic management of the Defence as integrated management as proposed by the Government in St.prp. [[2000-2001]] No 45
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2750	You are now voting on option II. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2772	Here, too, the Labour Party has announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2795	Paragraph 1 of this Roman numeral contains an alternative proposal, and it is proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Joint operating headquarters is added to Retan at Bodø.’ [[FOHK]] An alternative is to vote between paragraph 1 of the vote and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2811	Then we shall decide on proposal No. 36, from the Progress Party. The President shall assume that this proposal is withdrawn after the adoption of paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2814	The proposal is being withdrawn, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2821	It will then vote on the Committee's position on IV, paragraphs 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2865	There is an alternative proposal here, and it is proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The army’s part of the Armed Forces shall be established with: a rapid reaction force of up to 700 personnel composed of a core of trained personnel and a greater number of vulnerable persons with experience of international operations on the contract response and follow-up forces of up to 1100 staff reinforcement forces of up to 400 personnel.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2889	And then we're going to vote over the VI of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2921	There is an alternative proposal for paragraph 3 of the vote and it is proposal No. 4. from the Workers' Party. It is first voted over the setting's point 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2932	So let's think about the point 2 of the setting. Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2943	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Infantry Command School in Trondheim and Harstad, and the camps of Haslemoen, Hvalsmoen, Eggemoen, Helgelandsmoen, Evjemoen and garrison in Fredrikstad shall be laid down.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2957	It is then voted over the point 3 of the setting. Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against, while the Progress Party has announced subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e2991	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A frigate, five landing vessels, four submarines, one miner, 6 Hauk class MTBs and one depot vessel are phased out. [[CNM Horten]] A mineweeper is removed from the strength structure.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3018	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Olavsvern, Hysnes, Ulsnes, Marvika and Karljohansvern shall be closed.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3056	I'll vote against XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3111	Paragraph 4 of this Roman numeral contains an alternative proposal, proposal No. 35, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘720-squadron and FEX/717-squadron shall be continued at Rygge Aviation Station.’» Furthermore, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3157	There is an alternative proposal for paragraphs 2 and 3 here. 28, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘330, 334 and 337 squadrons are not added to the Sun. The Coast Guard helicopters remain on Bardufoss and the base of the frigate helicopter is added to Flesland/Haakon protection.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3183	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 25, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the issue of the location of the ARS in South Norway is further addressed. One representative of each of the three relevant locations of Kongsvinger, Mågerø and Gråkallen should participate in the investigation team.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3230	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3260	Here is a correction: the garrison in Porsangs is to be entered under point 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3286	Here the Labour Party has an alternative proposal, proposal No. Eight. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A military medical education and competence centre shall be established on Sessvollmoen. [[MUKS]] The Sanitation Regiment, Lahaugmoen and Air Force Sanitation School, Stavern, shall be closed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3308	What says like XIV is wrong. It's going to be XXIV. Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3340	Here the Labour Party has an alternative proposal, proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Air Safety Education and Competence Centre shall be established on Rygge. The training of air protection at Ørland and Bodø is continued as a NASAMS group in Ørland and a NASAMS group in Bodø. One NALLADS battery is established in Bodø for the training of land-based air defence in the Maritime Defence and one NALLADS battery in Rusta camp for training for the Army. Training in air protection at Bardufoss Main Aviation Station and at the Eastfold Regiment in Fredrikstad is completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3362	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3384	Here the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3423	There was an error in the press again. Now, where it says XVIII, it's going to be XXVIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3426	I want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3439	We have now completed voting on the vote on the motion for a resolution. There are still a number of minority proposals in non-essential areas, and the President will first address the proposals concerning the service period for the first time in the field of Home Affairs. It's: proposal No 10, by the Workers' Party, proposal No. 14) by the Right and the Party of Presidents, on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party Proposal No. 14, from the Right and Advance Party, says: ‘The service period for the initial training of HV personnel is set at 6 months.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3470	Proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The service period for the initial training of HV personnel shall be set at 4 months.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3484	Proposal No. 24, from the Christian people, and from the centurion, saying, ‘The duration of the first-time service for HV personnel shall be 100 operational days.’;» Both the Labour Party, the Right and the Progressive Party have announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3498	And then we've come to the more musical part of tonight's voting, and here's the most desperate suggestion. It's: the proposals No 11 and 50, by the Labour Party, proposal No. 21, from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 31, from the Right, proposal No. 37, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 41, by Mr Stolt-Nielsen and Mr Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 47 from the representatives Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe and Terje Knudsen Proposal No. 47 from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe and Terje Knudsen, «The 7 existing music studios in Halden, Oslo, Horten, Kristiansand, Bergen, Trondheim and in Harstad are continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3533	Proposal No. 41, by the representatives of Inger Stolt-Nielsen and Steinar Bastesen, ‘The Government asks the Government to consider transferring the budgetary responsibilities of the decommissioned corps from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Culture’s budgetary framework and aligning the operation of the Corps with the annual budget in the cultural field.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3545	Proposal No. 37, from the Party of Advancement, reads: «The music of the defense is organized with a structure of four corps: The Army's Music Corps in the Harstad Air Force's Music Corps in TrondheimThe Swedish Maritime Music Corps in BergenThe Swedish Defence's District Music Corps in Kristiansand and Halden are laid down. [[Oslo]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3571	Proposal No. 31, from the Right, says: ‘The structure of five corps is continued to Oslo, Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen and Kristiansand.’ The Progress Party has now announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3587	Proposal No. 21 And from the Christian people, and from the centurion, saying, «The existing 7 music studios in Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen, Oslo, Halden, Horten and Kristiansand continue. The Government is asked to consider transferring parts of the financial responsibility to the Ministry of Culture and/or the County Municipality.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3601	Unless there are objections to it, the President will vote collectively on the proposal No. 11 and 50, from the Workers' Party. - It seems to be accepted. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The defence music is organised with a structure of five corps. The defence district music corps Southland in Kristiansand and the defence district music corps Eastland in Halden are being laid down.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘By 2003 the Government asks the Government to assess whether the Divisional Music in Halden and Kristiansand will be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and will continue to operate in cooperation with the relevant counties and municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3620	Then there will be music in the defense hereafter as well. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 54, tabled by the Chairman of the Committee on behalf of the Committee. It is a proposal that should have been part of the majority position, but it has fallen out. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a status-enforcement measure for defence officers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3634	Three proposals relating to the defence planning framework in the years 2002-2005 remain to be voted on. It's: proposal No 51, by the Labour Party, proposal No. 52, from the Right, proposal No. 53, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposal No. 52, from the right, says: ‘The size assumes a frame of $18 billion. for the defence budget for the next 4 years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3660	Proposal No. 53, from the Christian People's Party, from the Central Party and the Left, says: ‘The size assumes that the defence planning framework for the period 2002-2005 is set at 116 billion. crowns.’» Here the Right has notified its subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3677	Proposal No. 51, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The size assumes that the defence planning framework in the years 2002 to 2005 is set at 114 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3691	Then, as far as the President understands, we should be done with the vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3949	Before we go to voting, the President will make a correction to the amount of two chapters. It's about cap. 1720 where the amount to be paid shall be 1 175 856 000. Then it's a cap. 1725 where the amount to be paid shall be 1645 875000.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e3989	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ansgar Gabrielsen, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen, on the proposals No. 2-9, by Øystein Hedstrom, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Terje Knudsen, on the proposals No. 10–13, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 9 shall be deleted as it is identical to proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We vote first on the proposals. 10–13, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘It asks the Government in the 2002 budget to facilitate a faster escalation of production, placing on the market and market organisation for organic food.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate a faster ecologicalisation of conventional agriculture.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the research effort on organic farming in addition to the recommendations contained in the proposal.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a ceiling for transfers for each use.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4033	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-8, by the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is made nationally.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The existing system of agricultural agreements is repealed.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other State financial measures in relation to agriculture in the context of the State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The financial envelope empowers the Government to allocate agricultural subsidies for the remainder of the current financial year with a framework of 2 250 million. krona lower than the approved budget capped. 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement.» Proposal No. Seven sounds. ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a gradual reduction in customs duties on imports of agricultural products with a view to achieving real competition from developed and developing countries in the Norwegian market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4075	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Terje Knudsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Purchase Farming Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4089	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Terje Knudsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals for a new agricultural agreement are not accepted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4253	President! I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4260	The number of votes in favour will be 117 and 46 will vote against the Committee's position, which has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4267	During the debate, Randi Karlstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether, under the new legislation of the Norwegian food labelling scheme, provision should be made for the sale of mountain lettuce pure to local market and as a niche product.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4387	The Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen have here announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4402	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Morten Lund, representative of the Central Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 7 June 2001: ‘The ruling asks the Government to investigate and propose a system allowing the use of health claims in the labelling and marketing of food.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4421	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen, sent by Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2001: ‘The Government requests the allocation of 50 rearing concessions for salmon and trout in the forthcoming round of allocations.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4438	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of Mr Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2001: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for changes to the Breeding Act and other relevant laws ensuring full freedom of establishment in the breeding of trout and marine fish species.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4455	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2001: 'The Grand Duchy asks the Government to submit proposals for the Law of 14 June 1985 No. 68 for the farming of fish, crustaceans, etc. shall be deleted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4472	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 June 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to enforce the right of repatriation of concessions to the State upon termination and to submit proposals to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4478	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4485	Also Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4492	And the Coast Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4500	Yes, now the President dares not keep it open any longer. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4516	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 June 2001: ‘The Government asks that the decision on the number of new environmental impact assessment concessions for new food fish farming areas be taken.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4531	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 June 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to await the granting of Salmon Breeding Concessions in Neiden and Tana to the suspension of the Salmon Committee has been finalised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-13-2.ana.ud963e4561	There is no record.
