ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e46	The President of the Storting, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Terje Johansen, Bjørn Hernæs, Harald T. Nesvik, Haakon Blankenborg, Reidun Gravdahl and Gunn Karin Gjul, who has been licensed, have again taken up seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershu County: Åge Tovan. For the Hordaland County: Magnar Lussand. For the county of Nordland: Søren Fredrik Voie. For Troms County: Arne Bergland. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Marit Nybakk and Siri Frost Sterri on leave on 14 and 15 May respectively, and 14 May and the morning meeting on 15 May both to attend the Third Conference of the least-developed countries, the MUL, in Brussels from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on sick leave from 14 May onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on sick leave for the representative Anita Apelthun Säle from 14 May onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the county of Hordaland: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor the counties of More and Romesdal: Modulf AukanFor Oslo: Kai EkangerFor the southern part of the county: Michael Momyr3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e148	Kurt-Arne Langeland, Modulf Aukan, Kai Ekanger and Michael Momyr are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e153	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e158	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e163	Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e171	The representative, Inge Myrvoll, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e175	I have the untapped pleasure of promoting a private proposal on behalf of the depositor Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself on a trial scheme with minipol in public service offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e180	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e190	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e201	Those who have so far claimed that the renewal work is slow, and that the Council of State and the Government of Stoltenberg do not keep what they have promised, may have read ‘Skrit on the Road’ or listened to the Council of State’s statement on Friday. Lots of fields happen here. I will not repeat what was said on Friday, but I would rather talk a little about that conversion and renewal require both ideas and the ability to implement them. This probably means that we have to put some pressure on those who are being changed. I have never been on major changes without it leading to protests initially. After that, most of them are naked. I once had a boss who said it's allowed to use white. By doing so, he said that we never had to stop thinking about ourselves as case handlers and service providers in the public sector. Most people greatly appreciate getting the room for action and the trust that was in the chosen one. It may sometimes seem that this has been forgotten in both the public and private sectors, not because the knowledge is not present, but because they do not feel empowered to do anything other than what they read out. This will be done by the Labour Party, both by reducing application and reporting requirements, by reducing control measures and by decentralising power and responsibility. In this country, we have an unmistakable belief that only we make enough rules and good enough routines for the most part leads to equality between the inhabitants and between the municipalities. I don't think so. I myself have experienced an infinite number of times that the code is handled differently between offices, between case managers and for clients in similar situations. In addition to the limited results, it takes a lot of time to design the rules and to try to follow them. I am sure that the result will be better with greater powers for the individual. The work becomes more interesting. In addition, it takes less time and it will free up time for service production, e.g. to teach children and to support the sick and the old. This is a change that many people like to agree on, at least in principle. When debt has been presented to decentralize more power and to add more decisions to municipal and county councils, most of them agree in principle. But – when there are concrete suggestions about e.g. adding ear-marked additions to the frame transfers, it seems that the exception applies exactly to the area that is discussed at any time. I was just at a conference on cultural schools. The participants were very afraid that there would be a delay in entering the framework permissions, because the time was not right for it. Most politicians acknowledged that it was they who agreed, although the cultural spheres have grown up and developed enormously in the 1990s, while the nominal government promises per year. hour has remained silent. Here, then, municipal politicians have given priority to increasing access to a sector that has been neglected by the state in many ways. Understand the one who can. My point is that we politicians often give after when there are protests against change, and that often does. There will be no renewal of the public sector in that way. If anyone wants to keep their police officer, there will be no more policemen in the streets to prevent and control crime. If everyone wants it to be kept in their jurisdiction, the units will not be more professionally strong. And if the changes in the Defense don't go beyond a workplace, we don't get a defense to adapt a new time – osb., osb. The most important thing is that the services operate at the most extreme and that we do not create administrative and supervisory systems that counteract it. The library service is a good example of this, where the structures prevent the seamless library that the user needs. If we don't make any changes, we don't get to a public sector to adapt a new time, but rather more of the same thing, i.e. little extra resources for all good purposes according to how it is organized now. Everyone knows, I think, that in the long term this option is a crack option, an option that is too expensive and too poor and that does not release money and people to new tasks in the health and school sector. We have to work hard to come up with sensible solutions. The reduction of the form field is a fortuitous perspective. I myself have worked most of my adult life in the public sector. I know that a lot of good work is done. But I also know that a lot of people think they have to adapt to a lot of systems that take a lot of time and take time away from work with users and patients. I am pleased that the Council of State has set up a close cooperation with them to join their organisations, and I hope that they have good contact with their foot people, who can come up with concrete proposals for change. In addition, we need more active back-up from this room. The Labour Party believes in a strong public sector that ensures good access to services regardless of how much a cage and how thick a wallet has. However, the public sector can only be strong if it has flexibility, is effective and provides room for action for the individual. So we have to do a lot of grips on different levels at the same time. The option to leave everything as it is now, possibly allowing even more money for the same, is a crack option. The option of privatising will not ensure a good distribution policy, as we are concerned about. Then there is only one option: simply to develop, convert and streamline the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e226	In the action plan ‘Skrit on the road’, we read: ‘It is an objective of the Government to provide the public with good and equivalent public health services — both better quality of treatment and more treated patients.’ Recognises the Workers' Party and the Government that today, as the Progress Party claims, public services depend on the state and municipality in which you live, i.e. that the economy and the priorities set by each municipality provide different services to the population in the different municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e236	Yes, the objective of equivalent supply will continue to be established. It's the tool we discuss, whether we believe we can regulate, check and report to this similarity. In the Labour Party, we believe that we are more sure of that similarity by giving several powers to the municipalities, and not least to the individual practitioner. And that's the way it is, I can tell the representative from the Progress Party that if we thought everything was very good, we wouldn't have made any proposals for changes. So there are things that can be done better. We have a good public sector in Norway, but we can do it even better. And the most important thing is that we get free hands to help new kids and new old people who will need help in the future, so that we can make better use of the resources we have. If we don't do this, we have to use every new employee growing up in Norway, in the public sector, to meet that demand. Everyone understands this is an impossible operation. We have to try to release some of the people who are there and get some new ones. And then we have to have some of the new ones also into the private sector, because we actually need a business that produces something, to create the values, and then we're going to distribute it as equally as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e243	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, said in his speech that it was «allowed to use white». My question to the Workers' Party now after having heard and read the statement to Cosmo and heard the post from Ausdal Starrfelt is: Is it allowed to use the competition? It was an important part of the administrative policy statement that Laila Davøy made two years ago. There's a lot of talk about flexibility. Ausdal Starrfelt also spoke of the fact that more hands are needed in private sector work – and that is, of course, uplifting signals. But that does mean that outsourcing, giving private opportunities to compete for tasks similar to those of the public sector, where public authorities are still responsible, must be a strategy. Since this is not mentioned in the statement in a single word – I understand that, last week, the LO Congress, and there, the so-called philatelic squandered principle of competitive outsourcing – I would like to ask: What does the representative Ausdal Starrfelt think would be a good strategy for the Workers' Party and the Government in the future? Is it to ignore the concept of outsourcing, or is it to start fresh again so that we get away from the talking stage and over to the action stage and launch many of the public services that are currently being produced, that private can produce at least as cheaply? At least they have to be given the opportunity to show that it is possible to produce those services equally cheaply. Will the Workers' Party also open up to competition in the State sector, so that we can free ourselves and get more in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e252	Now we in the Labour Party believe quite a lot in a public sector, but we think we have to change him. We believe that there is a lot of whiteness in the public sector, so we do not really believe that it is necessary to postpone competition in order for one to use white – as the representative of Greece took this as a starting point in this designated mine. On the contrary, there is much to suggest that one of the things that were put out to competition, for the first has not necessarily been on terms that one can compare, and, on the other hand, that it does not work as well as the right side seems to believe. We believe in a better public sector, that's what's our main answer. And in particular, we are concerned that it is the public sector that needs to ensure equivalent supply in order to ensure a good distribution policy. We're not willing to give from us to the private. This, of course, is most true of education and the health and social sector, but may also apply to a number of other areas. Now there is nothing new that there is a lot of private provision in some municipalities in this country. For example, I live in a municipality where the garbage has been picked up by private people at all times, and there has never been any major political discussion about it. But what's important is to screen the areas where it's about taking care of a good distribution policy. And back to Trond Helleland: We don't think it's necessary to put off competition in order to get a good public sector, to get good deals, and that the individual added should have the opportunity to do what I call white.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e261	I am pleased that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt so clearly underlined that we have the public sector in order to be able to distribute better. For us, it is also important that we have a public sector that allows everyone to participate. Now, in many municipalities, services have been exposed to competition. Often it happens in cooperation with the Workers' Party. I see that the Workers' Party has an ideological justification in the same way as SV to protect the public sector, or to preserve the public sector. But can the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt see that the competitive outsourcing that has taken place has been due to need – simply because the local economy has been too bad? And then it represents a dilemma for the Workers' Party, will the party look at it? The second is: the Council of State refers to hospital reform as an important part of public sector renewal work. Does the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt agree that this will mean renewal? Will it not mean renewal towards more market, more business-economy thinking into health care and more centralisation? That's what the LO Congress was concerned about. And the LO Congress had very strong wordings in relation to this reform, which, in our opinion, means more market-based thinking, less holistic thinking, which will mean poorer services for those who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e270	I think one might find an example of the Labour Party being too competitive in some municipalities, but the main tendency is that the Labour Party remains in line with that kind of action. If I thought that launching competition would lead to equally good services for less money, I could understand the claim that they are doing this because of necessity. They probably do it based on an over-interpretation I don't have, because, in my opinion and the Labour Party, we have a good public sector that can get even better, and when it gets even better, there's no private that can compete. It would immediately lead to extra costs, for someone will spend money on it as well. So we think that the answer is always to make the public sector as good as possible, so that no one else can compete with it, even if they got access to it. So I don't really think of it as a big dilemma. There have been some strong increases in the municipal sector in recent years, and there are also proposals for improvement for the coming years. Although it will never be enough, at least more money has been spent in the municipal sector than anything else, and when we are able to spend the money better, it is in line with the ambitions of the Labour Party. So I've listened to what has been said about market and centralization. As long as we use the controls we have, the system changes do not lead to centralization itself. If the state owns hospitals, the hospitals should lie where they are. They're not going into Oslo, they're going to be out in the country, their services are going to be provided where people live, and a lot of the day-to-day governance is going to happen there. So I'm not so afraid that it will lead to changes with more centralization. On the contrary, the Labour Party has said that it is a goal to get more state labour away from Oslo; on the contrary, one must find quite good reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e283	I'm glad that the work on renewal continues from the central government. The Christian People's Party often uses the slogan 'a warmer society'. But we all know that politicians have a limited space for action to decide what society should look like. We have laws, budgets and the public sector. Thus, it is also obvious that we are going to create a warmer society, is how we govern and use the public sector, an important question. This is what management policy is all about. If we are to develop a good governance policy, we must start with the question of why we have the welfare state. We've built the welfare state to realize values. In addition to the states councils mentioned, I will point to fundamental values such as human dignity, close love, care and equality. This could have been of course, but it isn't. Discussions on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector are very often heard in both language and content as if it were any listed company. But what all reforms and renewal programmes need to be considered first and foremost is whether they contribute to strengthening the values on which the welfare country is to realise and build. These values can't be measured in dollars or along any number scale. At this point, the presentation was somewhat unclear. How does the Council of State want the quality of establishments to be assessed and evaluated? The statement calls for managers to be placed more directly responsible for the results and an extended and systematic evaluation of managers shall be carried out. But the statement will also have less reporting and more common sense. What is meant by placing managers more directly in charge of the results? The reason why I ask this question is that these are not new ideas at all. It was already decided in this house ten years ago that the administration should be more measured against results. The same approach was underpinned by the Municipal Law of 1992. There are, in large parts of the public sector, municipal and state, reforms for the implementation of so-called performance management. There is also, in fact, some of the background to the enormous reporting requirements that the Council of State is now so optimistic about reducing. The evaluation of these reforms has shown that business performance has not been measured. There are several examples, but it is natural to refer to the State Consultant's assessment of the 1999 government's governance of targets and results. In the private sector, the idea of a one-sided evaluation based on results has been left for a long time. When such methods do not work in private enterprises that can count their profits in dollars and cents, there is reason for reflection in public enterprises. The statement states that there shall be greater room for common sense within the floors. The Council of State deserves to be commended for this. But the question is whether this is not one of man’s definitely nobler qualities, should also be given greater room in the overall assessment of the activities and in the evaluation of their managers. In the last ten years, thousands of people in public enterprises have spent weeks, months and years reorganizing to look for the results of their business, because their political leaders had asked them to do so. Even the words of Scripture that the seeker should find have not helped these people to find what they were looking for. The evaluation has shown that this has been the weak point of the performance management. It is obvious that we should learn from the earlier evaluations that tells us. But my main concern with this is, as I said, initially: the activities of our welfare services need to be assessed against the values they will realise. The pursuit of the objective results, the measurable sizes and the hard data to measure the leaders up against, shifts focus away from the values of the fundamental goal of the welfare state: human dignity, closeness, community and care, precisely because these are sizes that – I would almost say fortunately – cannot be measured. For the welfare country, no score was built on a performance indicator. It was not at all the Labour Party alone, but social democracy deserves favor because the basis was values such as cohesion, community and care. As I said, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is continuing the work of the central government with the renewal of the public sector. And when the welfare state is subjected to another renewal programme, there is reason to focus on the values from which the entire construction works originate. And that's not least reason to challenge social democracy to a discussion about the values of the welfare state, about how we can best take care of these values in our society, how they are going to permeate public activity, and how we can best assess the quality of our welfare offer against just these values.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e312	One of the points made by Kosmo in her statement was that, among other things, There are 50 governmental administrative bodies in charge of supervision, broken down by approx. 230 different supervisory arrangements, and he suggested looking at how to simplify them, if necessary, in order to improve and improve their effectiveness. Another important point in the conversion is what we're in the middle of in terms of the police and the county Senate, which is going to release 400 more policemen to provide better services to most people. Every time we come up with proposals to provide better services to people, we see that the center tends to lie down on the late side and goes against the changes we want to make, and leaves to others to take the tough job it is to have a welfare state that will also be able to meet the future. I therefore allow myself to challenge the center a little bit on this. It is possible to enjoy renewal in the centre, as the representative Lånke opened up to say – at least as long as they themselves do not take responsibility for it and instead choose to surf on the back of the Government and the Workers' Party for this work. That's the impression you get of the centre's contribution to the renewal debate. So the challenge is, to what extent will the Christian People's Party and Center actually be involved in taking responsibility for the renewal work that the Labour Party government has now started?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e321	The representative Alstad asks to what extent the center will be involved and take responsibility for renewal. It almost seems that the representative Alstad has not heard my post, because I gave you credit for the government's following up and continuing what the central government started in terms of the renewal of the public sector. What we may miss is some of the political 'dreamed' by the Government and the Workers' Party in implementing some of the measures that were already initiated by our government. I also have a very vague feeling about what the representative Alstad is really asking about supervisory arrangements. The seat of police and officers was mentioned as an example. I don't think the center will be a difficult interlocutor when it comes to finding good solutions and improving supervisory arrangements. I don't think so, either, in relation to the relationship with the police and the so-called so-called ‘men's seat’. What we're concerned about is that people can have a security in their lives, in their community, and that the police are getting closer to the population. What we're skeptical about is an extensive centralization of services that subtracts them from people. In the case of the lumbar seat, we've seen some tendencies to it. We want greater proximity to just those who are going to keep law and order even in the community, not just in the big cities. I guess the Cosmos presentation was especially the coin in the areas where people live densely, when you say you're going to move them where they need the most. But the districts are often forgotten in this context. It has been the centre's idea that we should also have a well-distributed police and loner crew around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e328	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e331	On the right, the needs of individual people will be put at the centre of municipal and state administration. Public offices shall adapt their opening hours to the needs of users and provide rapid and good service. The right considers that public administration through Internet use should be available 24 hours a day. We want to reduce public regulation of people's everyday lives. There should be fewer and simpler laws and regulations for citizens to deal with. Among other things, we want to support simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building, and of course we will join in the proposals that Kosmo will make. By reducing the public's ability to regulate people's everyday lives, the need for public proceedings will also be reduced. For business, an efficient public sector is important. International competition becomes more visible than previous government weaknesses. Public bureaucracy can be both a competitive advantage and a competitive disadvantage, depending on whether it works effectively or not. Right will have a slimmer and more efficient bureaucracy that can release resources for public core tasks. We'll work to build or merge public offices and directorates where it's natural. This will free resources from duplication and make it easier for users to identify by dealing with fewer public offices. We want to simplify regional government bodies. Government administrative bodies at local level must be subject to the rule of law. Review of municipal decisions is limited to legal review and appeals against the proceedings. Norway receives too little of the resources deployed in the public sector. That is why we will work towards a major modernisation of the public sector. Extensive reforms in the organisation of the public sector are necessary in order to provide the individual with the necessary services when needed. Today we depend on political decisions to get a good education for our children, treatment when we get sick, and care when we get old. To this end, we will strengthen user involvement in supply and facilitate a more varied and diverse offer by bringing private and voluntary organisations into competition for better and more cost-effective services. The public is responsible for financing basic welfare services related to education, health, care and care. Public responsibility for funding does not mean that the public must also provide services. We will therefore let go of private competition with the public when it comes to giving us the best services at the lowest price possible. In the present situation, with a public monopoly on the production of many services, there is not the same requirement for efficient production and renewal as in a market of free competition. The public should concentrate on the role of ordering welfare services on behalf of the population and formulate and impose requirements on the quality and content of those services. A distinction between ordering and implementing roles will provide for increased attention to the quality of service. Attention needs to be paid to good cooperation with employees in such conversion processes. On the right, the advantage of the market in the production of goods and services will be combined with a public funding that ensures all access to elementary well-being goods, irrespective of the personal economy. This may be done through the use of tenders or through price-based financial instruments, where the money follows the user’s choice, whether public or private. The right will also bring down the county. By reducing the number of administrative levels to two, political responsibilities will be clarified. By reducing red tape and duplication of effort, we will release resources that can be used to provide better public services to the population. The best possible offer must govern how we organise the public sector. Hospitals and secondary schools are today the main tasks of the county. The State is now to assume responsibility for hospitals, and municipalities should then assume responsibility for the secondary schools and institutions related to drug care and child protection. So instead, we see that the government is now proposing to add new tasks to the county council, when the reality is that the county council days are soon counted. The Kosmos State Council's statement is marked by a dispute between the public and private sections of the trade movement. The LO Congress showed that the Kommunebund appears to be the most reactionary brake block in Norway when it comes to modernising the public sector, while the Joint Confederation is in the process of making clear that the services can be put on the market – put out of competition – as long as the public is responsible for providing the services. The Council of State statement did not contain a single word on the outsourcing and ordering/executing model. An administrative policy statement without discussion appears to be a defensive blow in the air — a statement without the main elements. However, the Kosmo Council of State should have a favourable opinion in order to appear to be in the process of reorganising regulations, supervision and other bureaucracy. But for the time being the most talk is, and in the opinion of the Right, results will not be seen until the basic steps are taken. In former Councillor Laila Davay's presentation two years ago, there were some positive ideas about competition as an instrument. This work has been silent since then, and a split Working Party will be nothing but an administrator of its own disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e364	Actually, one could sum up what the representative of Greece said in his statement, that it was a settlement without right-wing answers. I think that the representative, if he thinks about it, understands that he could not wait for Right's answers from a Labour Party Council. That sounds quite provocative, with a start of competition, and that if you thought it was so much better and so much cheaper, you should let go. Now let's say that Greece said something about some other changes, so it's quite clear that there's something that we can talk about later on. But I have to ask the representative of Greece: does the Right have a good example of putting out competition, private service providers, providing better and cheaper services for users if all the costs are taken into account? It's not useful to have 20-30 pst left. in the public sector, saying that they do not count, if one considers them when assessing the public sector and the corresponding supply. But is there an exhibition window? I haven't heard about it, simply. And is the Right concerned that the population is going to get somewhat equivalent conditions and offers throughout the country? How will they arrange it, how will they make sure that it happens, with their models? I have worked for many years in a social office, and I have to say that I have a little problem believing that private people are in line to take over their jobs. It makes me ask: Is there any limit – on the idea plane, at least – to what, in the view of the Right, can one postpone and privatize competition? Is there something that must be organized by the public, or does Right mean that everything can be put out of competition and thus privatized?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e381	I have to say that I am surprised that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt does not have one single example that private people can do tasks that the public has done before, and that for a fairer money. I assume that even in her municipality of residence it is private as bridges, it may be private that carry out renovation tasks, and it may be private or other companies that care for bus and public transport. There are a number of examples of this being profitable. And the reason the municipalities use this is because they have just found out that they can save money on it. I said in my post that the public has a responsibility to finance basic welfare services related to education, health, care and care. But that doesn't mean that government has to produce services. What that means is that they have to be responsible for the good quality. They shall be responsible for providing the requested services to users and shall be responsible for ensuring that there is an equivalent offer to all parts of the population. It is in a way a dogmatic view of the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt and the Workers' Party. I am very pleased that she said that this was not a statement that gave the answers Right would have. No, that's absolutely right. There was a statement that in some fields – and I mentioned it – was good, because you went in to reduce supervisory arrangements, you went in to reduce regulatory governance, and you went in to use common sense. But common sense is also to make use of the market — to take advantage of the opportunities that exist to provide people with cheap and good services. It is not that what is driven by the public always has a higher quality than what is driven by the private. And what's important when you get this order/execution model is to make sure that the specifications in terms of requirements and quality are so solid and good that you can't come back and say that the public could probably do this better. It is the responsibility of the public — in the public order function — to ensure that the requirements put forward are good enough, so that one gets cheap and good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e394	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e397	Many have high expectations of the changes announced to take place within general government. There are several ways of improving, streamlining, rationalising and saving, and not least economic benefits. At the same time, when this is mentioned, one must also understand the concerns that some employees may have about losing their jobs or being redeployed. We also have to think about this in this process and, to the extent possible, take into account it. But the most important thing is to ask ourselves why we have a public sector. Indeed, a public sector is a service that exists for each individual, both in the form of providing services and taking care of the general interests of Norway, for the benefit of all. The administrative structure we have in Norway today is obsolete in many areas. Of course, some developments according to general developments elsewhere in society have been included, but unfortunately it has been overlooked in many areas. Therefore, the signals you have now received are positive, but, unfortunately, a lot is missing. The aim must be that, to the extent possible, the State and the municipalities have only one granting and controlling authority. I deliberately refrained from mentioning the word ‘communities’, which is now expected to be gone. The county municipality is often a clog that takes time and money for the individual applicant and thus gives anger. By allocating the tasks of the county council between the municipality and the state, we had a simplification and saving, which could have been applied to several of the unsolved tasks we have in today's society. We also had more equality and justice between service providers and recipients, which we often lack today, and between individual municipalities and counties. The administrative policy statement states that the needs of the individual should be taken into account and not appear unreasonable and contradictory in the face of ordinary people. This shall be one of the main objectives of the renewal apparatus. Of course, it sounds good and correct, but the question is whether we can get there with what has been announced. The Progress Party sees that we need to go further, so that we get a more efficient government. Therefore, it is disappointing to hear nothing in the statement about the main means of achieving innovation and efficiency. For the Progress Party and now more and more, it is to put out competition and thus give each of us freedom of choice an important way to do so – a freedom to choose which hospital, hospital, school and other service providers we could imagine. Then we would have the opportunity to get services more adapted to the individual's everyday life and wishes. At the same time, the Progress Party does not ignore the significant increase in the quality of a number of goods and services. And as mentioned earlier, the public's task shall be to grant and control. Such a form of service would also have had an economic savings, which could help to solve even more tasks. Luckily, some attempts to launch competition are now underway. Here, public competition with private companies, and the one who can give the best quality and price, etc., gets the task, such as: by road maintenance in two municipalities in Hedmark, namely Åsnes and Våler. Here a private company won and has to perform services according to an instruction for a probationary period of five years. The Progress Party is also very concerned with mergers between similar services and between state and municipal services. But the Progress Party wants to go further at the same time, just to simplify. Why should social security offices be state-owned, while social security offices are municipal? This is where the state should take over all responsibility. The best thing would be such a reform as the Progress Party has proposed, namely the pooling of social security offices, social services, employment offices and elderly people's care offices into a single-office state area, which can then see the whole chain of services. It would be a simplification that would at the same time be transparent and straightforward for those who need these services. The vast majority of municipalities have spread their services to several buildings, and this usually also leads to an unbridled form of employment for employees. Fortunately, more and more municipalities have changed their structure and now have a service square where you can get help in most areas. A while ago, I was at a cultural conference. There we heard an example of an angry and good person who had managed to get money for a good project. But he would have been in – if I remember correctly – 11 departments and 23 budget lines to get these funds. You have to be capable and willing to spend a lot of time getting results. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e424	- But don't spend time on overtime, sir. Bredvold! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e429	Norway is a scattered country with different needs. The representative of Bredvold has called for the privatisation and outsourcing of public welfare solutions. Does not the Progress Party and the representative of Bredvold not see that widespread use of market solutions will lead to the loss of municipalities and low-demand districts in the fight for urban services, where profitability is much greater? And won't this make the equivalence of offers disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e434	In today's society, it's very dependent on where you live, where you live, where you live, where you live, what municipality and municipality and county economy, whether you get the treatment you need, or if you have to stand in line. For all of us, most of us, it's not crucial who performs a service, but that you get the service. If you have to drive a few extra miles to get to a hospital to get the operation you have been waiting for too long, it means very little. You want the service, and you can get it in the way of the Progress Party, with a competitive outlook. We also have a unit price, and a unit price means that we set price and quality requirements. We believe that the quality of the products offered today will also be improved with a single price and competition. This can be seen in several examples in other countries in the Nordic region, including the United Kingdom. in Sweden and Denmark, in drug treatment, child protection services, road maintenance, fire services, renovation, fencing, public transport, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e439	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e442	As I have stressed several times in the past, I have great expectations for the Kosmo Government Council regarding the renewal of the public sector. I think that the statement that was given was interesting and promising, and of course I agree when he says – and it sounds like a fanfare: ‘–flexibility – because that’s what users expect – because the population has a right to that space of action – because we believe in freedom and responsibility, and not in paragraphs and detail management’ I fully agree with that. But what does this mean in practice? Of course, bureaucrats are all against us – unnecessary bureaucracy. Regulation is excellent, and Cosmo spent a lot of time doing it. Sun knows it's too little of it. It should be stimulated. I understand that there is a basic attitude that the Council of State will want to permeate the Norwegian public sector. The ‘local democratic institutions’ must be strengthened, said Kosmo. I agree with that. For I am of those who believe that society is actually built from below, and that every human being must be put in the center. But then I would say, in meeting people where they live, with the economy they have, I think that the effect of the Labour Party's policy is more disturbing than confidence that there is a desire to strengthen the public sector. The «transition» is often perceived as – and in a way it is a fact – degradation or closure. ‘Modernisation’ may involve privatisation and thus greater uncertainty. And «flexibility» – it often involves much greater differences. I want to mention some things that are now on the agenda, which I believe means the opposite of decentralisation and security where people live: the hospital reform, the major structural change in the police and county seats, the major structural changes in the defence system, changes in service offices, asset lighting, equality offices, etc. Now I know – and it is excellent – that after the Kosmos arrangement, service offices will come in all municipalities. Anyway, the real thing that people meet out there is that the service disappears. And then that's the sum of all of this that people experience as an undermining of the safe and good welfare society we know. We have just seen the district uprising in Finnmark. It's the basis of life that disappears for people where they live – the house they had built, the house they had, it loses value because it's hard to sell. The company in which they have invested is also unable to do so, because the market is disappearing – people are simply moving. We're in a powerful centralization wave. I believe that much of the Labour Party's policy actually helps to strengthen it significantly, because the market, market liberalism and competitive thinking dominate too much also what should be the counterpart of precisely centralisation, namely the public sector, which should just aim to meet people where they are and ensure an equivalent offer, regardless of the private economy and regardless of where you live in the country. I have not given up the Labour Party in this area, because, as I say, I believe that we have to do well to renew the public sector. Otherwise we get a right wave that many here want, but at least I don't! So we have to renew and try to provide greater flexibility, that people encounter a public system that is open and that wants to help them create their own everyday life and create security for themselves and their own. But we can't believe that it succeeds and benefits without taking into account what's the big drama in today's society today, that's the enormously strong centralization that we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e468	I have also not given up the Center Party in this context, at least not the representative Enger Lahnstein. I am pleased that she gave a positive feedback on much of the distribution. What I think is a little bit difficult is when one comes to the concrete. Then I thought the Central Party had been able to say: this is centralization policy, we are against it. The representative himself mentions matters where this is the case. It's not sure that everything has to be just like the Labour Party's solutions, but what I'm quite sure is that if we just do it the way it was before, or spend a little bit more money on the same thing, at least it's going to be a crack option. I could imagine the representative's comment on that. So to this with equivalent offers: now I'm living in a state where the largest municipality has over 100,000 inhabitants, and the smallest municipality, Utsira, which is the smallest in Norway, has 250. They cannot have both a child protection office, a PP service and all the services offered in the Utsira area and provide an equivalent offer by having everything there – it is completely impossible. By the way, they were the first municipality to have a public service office, so they offered. We have many small municipalities in this country, and there are some of us who might want to do something about it, but it looks like it's going to take a long time. It requires local authorities to cooperate on solutions, e.g.: on child protection, where it is difficult to have well-specialised services ‘on the outermost naked island’, literally. Then they have to cooperate, for example. child protection is available or can be maintained in a municipality, and then the PP service can be in another municipality. There is no need for a merger or cooperation structure in this area to be centralised. There is a division of labour, and we want to do it, both by providing municipal services in different places, and by providing state services in different municipalities. Then, unfortunately, someone comes out unluckily, and we have to take some extra steps to counteract it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e475	I agree with Starrfelt that it is not at all satisfactory to say that everything should be as it was. I can admit that we have not been good enough to come up with alternative suggestions all the way. We represent the counter-crimes in many ways – against centralisation – and therefore I think it is important to discuss how to ensure a greater degree of flexibility and greater coordination of different offers. But the underlying feeling in relation to the Labour Party's policy, and what I feel – and I know very well that there are, of course, moves within the Workers' Party – is that one has either lost sight of the great overall perspective, or the forces within the Workers' Party that want centralisation, large units and more markets are in the process of taking over. I don't want to. I want to contribute to strengthening the forces that will have smaller units, which will take care of the stabilisation of the settlement, and which are skeptical of even more privatisation and outsourcing of competition. I have no faith that the market and outsourcing will meet the needs of the small municipalities and the small people – the vulnerable people who may not even have the power to stand up and demand their offer. I have also not seen that the experience you have with a lot of the outsourcing has satisfied my and the Central Party's desire for equivalence in offers, regardless of where you live and regardless of your private economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e480	Anne Enger Lahnstein says that she represents the counterclaims, and has a long analysis of internal relations in the Workers' Party, but my question in relation to her posts is: if it's the way to be concerned that any conversion changes the individual's life base, as Anne Enger Lahnstein says, then we shall maintain a bureaucracy because it gives jobs in District Norway, or we shall begin to admit that we need an effective and competent bureaucracy to ensure the basis for what can actually sustain permanent residence in District Norway, namely private sector jobs. It is not possible to segment a housing structure in Norway based on public activity if the second type of activity, which is the basis for people living there and the jobs that are there, is gone. Another question that I think the Central Party should answer, because they have been the decisive crumbling of not having confidence in the local politicians, is the question of VAT compensation. This is not the case in Norway with regard to competition in the public sector. In fact, in the public sector, with the exception of three areas, one can be 24 pst. less efficient and yet it may be profitable for the municipalities to operate with it, because the municipality has to pay VAT for the task of the private operator. This will be extended from 1 July. And the Center Party has been the crunch to maintain this. They're the ones who've been in the tilt position and they've provided the solution we have today. As of 1 July, municipalities have to pay VAT on the purchase of services from private individuals in many more areas, creating this different attitude between the purchase of private services or their own employment. So my question to the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein is: does Anne Enger Lahnstein have such little confidence that the elected representatives can make these choices? Will she not now also go in to equalise private and public activities by neutralising the VAT system in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e489	In the case of VAT compensation, it is true that this has been a subject for a long time, and that the Central Party has been the party that has joined the majority to maintain today's system. I can't see that I'm here to signal that we've changed this. It is simply because we believe that the public sector should be given priority and good working conditions, but I also believe that this is something that the Ministry and the Government are looking at at at regular intervals. But I can't do or say anything other than what we've stood for in the past when it comes to it. Otherwise, I didn't say we should maintain all the bureaucracy because it means jobs. On the contrary, I said that it is important to settle with bureaucracy and with unnecessary bureaucracy. I also see that it is that you can demand too much of a structure and thus bind resources and forces in an unhealthy way. I have said many times that the alternative to renewal can be confusion, and we must at least avoid that. But it's also so that things are connected in the sense that if one offer in public disappears, and one more, and one more, you get a negative circle. And as I pointed out in my post, the Finnmark uprising is based on a lot of it. The private house is losing value. And those who have invested in jobs lose their market. So we can quickly get into a negative circle and undermine the settlement, and thus create insecurity among people. I can also use this opportunity to say that I believe that talking about ‘users’ in a way has taken too much over the market language. We should talk about people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e498	The representative of the Centre Party was concerned that some companies and individuals move from small branches. My question then is whether the representative agrees – or rather agrees very much – that the Central Party has been involved in this development in such a way that financial assistance has been provided, for example. through SND and many others, but at the same time it has given companies many restrictions and a large bureaucracy. With bureaucracy, I think of all the forms that are to be filled in, which take a lot of the time that small businesses have. Often there are forms of such a nature and quantity that you have to have professional help, with the costs it brings, so that companies have a negative economic sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e504	I must say that I have a very good conscience for our efforts for the small businesses and the small self-employed around the whole of Norway, especially if I compare the efforts we have made with the policies of the Progress Party. Now I almost have to use my line on a little attack on the Progress Party. I believe that if it had been through the policies of the Progress Party, there would not have been life around the districts. Implementation of this policy will lead to a reduction in supply, to a lack of a proper transport offer, for example. in agriculture, which in many ways is the support pillar of many communities, would see that the workplaces, the basis of life and therefore also the settlement disappeared. So the Center Party has a good conscience. At least we've tried to do it so that the individual and the individual family, if they want – not because they've lived there before and are going to be there forever, but if they want – can secure a basis of life and a belief in the future and have the opportunity to create their own life anywhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e512	The installation for Anne Enger Lahnstein underlines the need for a job to challenge the Workers' Party to get them out of the arms of right-wing thinking. The framework for general government is the result of the forces on the offensive, as a result of decisions both in the Stortinget, in local governments, but in particular by boys in the closed rooms of financial institutions and groups. Powerful capital forces act freer and freer on an unregulated world market. The result is a pressure, as we see, on the public sector not only in Norway but in all other countries. From the NHO and the right forces, there are systematic, massive campaigns for conversion to AS, the liberation of municipal and state companies, for privatisation of the public sector, for outsourcing, etc. They're getting through. The morbidity reform is just an example of their impact. As a result, corporate economic thinking is creeping into the public sector, where each small split-up unit has to pay off in isolation – and this is not at all the best framework for holistic consolidation – and where the demand for efficiency in importance was more rapid, several young people stepped into the classes and kindergartens. This leads to enormous pressure on the main resources of government, namely the people. SV will defend a strong public sector, a strong welfare state and strong welfare municipalities, because this is the best way to organise society. We are based on the value of solidarity. We want equal rights of participation in society, regardless of gender, age, ethnic background or economic and social resources. Only a strong public sector can guarantee this right and ensure equal access to welfare services according to needs. Governments are the best means of fair distribution. The market is a miserable distributor. A defence for the public sector does not mean that we are deeply satisfied with the state of things. That is why we support the call for renewal, but it must be based on two important values: it must be done on the ground of the welfare state, and it must be done by mobilising from below. The service position and respect for the individual person shall be the administrative plate. All shall be able to maintain their dignity in meeting with the administration. But we know that it's not always like that. Too many times people have been met with an A4 attitude and extreme control, and I think it's often because of scarcity and because each unit is going to pay off in isolation. I don't think the whole thing's going to get any good in a system like that. Let me mention two examples that I've been told about lately, which show a lack of holisticity. A gym teacher in Bergen was exposed to a car accident. She manages the urge to train so that she can continue in 46 pst. position in her old job, in which she thrives, and for which she is qualified. What's going on? Well, the county employment office asked her to go into a refurbishment plan to get another job with a higher job rate. This is an example of good governance that weakens public sector confidence. The second example: Crokide Vocational school has had a rehabilitation facility for cardiovascular and pulmonary disease in cooperation with the County Stryck Office. The evaluation shows that the project is successful. Most of them are back in full-time work. The project does not receive any further financial support. An action that benefits can then be taken. Such molbo stories are part of it, but there are also many examples that employees see the madness and make suggestions, but they are not heard up in the system. In response to a question from Karin Andersen about how employees can be included in the renewal work, the Council of State answers that there is a call for competition where the price is a trip to Denmark. This is with respect to not reporting to take those who are closest to the problems and who may come up with solutions, seriously. They'll have to try out their suggestions. Most people want better solutions and can trust that they get the services they've agreed to. Therefore, we propose that «municipal and state establishments in some municipalities are included in a system of consumer guarantees and service declarations related to public law services». This we believe will promote quality, and in the quality concept we believe that coordination is an important element. In the future, scarcity of people becomes a challenge for the public sector. The public sector needs to pursue an employer policy that allows people, and especially women with part-time survival strategies, to be able to remain in their jobs for a long time. We are therefore proposing today a probationary system with reduced working hours and a six-hour normal working day in the state sector. We've often suggested a series of measures that can make it easier to get people back to work, and it's worth looking at. I would also like to promote the proposals that have been distributed on the table of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e538	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e543	SV and the Workers' Party are parties engaged in good public welfare services. But we know that the population today is making greater demands on the services provided. Does the SV and the representative Valle not agree that we must then take action to strengthen and secure public services against the zeal of the right parties after privatising? Is it not then important to ensure that the population enjoys an offer instead of focusing on the institutions for their own sake? To put it another way: is SV willing to withstand some resistance to bring about completely necessary changes in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e548	Well, we totally agree that we have to assume that we're going to have the help. That's why we're so concerned that we're going to have a public sector that behaves so that people can keep their dignity and use their own resources. I have often reflected my soul on why it is so difficult to work together, and often I have come to the conclusion that the leaders of the various departments have received one message, namely: Keep the budgets! – Above all, you have to do that. And then I've seen many times as a result that people fall between two chairs. So we want a framework that makes it possible to cooperate around someone who needs help. We have also today put forward a proposal that we believe will bring about change and promote quality, and give those who are going to have help, the opportunity to get proper help. That is – and there I fully agree with the representative from the Workers' Party – imperative in order for us now to be able to build a bulwark against the fury of the right forces. But I also find the right forces in the Workers' Party. And it turns out that the local economy is important in relation to maintaining the public sector. Another result is the hospital reform, which shows that market thinking has gone quite far in the Workers' Party. But I also believe that there is a struggle within the Workers' Party, and that is also an expression of the LO Congress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e557	I was unable to injure myself when the representative from SV opened up saying that SV and the Center Party had an important job to do when it came to keeping the Workers' Party in mind in the renewal. Does SV really believe that their best effort in renewal is to prevent the Workers' Party from creating a better public sector? I heard a post like cheese of negativity in relation to what's going to happen in the future in the public sector, and then it was made a very point that all the conversion has to take place from below. I don't know where SV's representative has been in the last few years, but I have seen this as a requirement for years, whether it's from users who aren't entirely satisfied with the services they get, or it's from those who work very hard in public sector service production, who experience on the body what it means, both for themselves and for the users, to have a bad organisation of our state. I have to admit that I don't want to see the SV here take the goal of contributing in the future, as to how we are going to get a better public sector that is both better for those who work the most in the service sector and who are not least much better for those who are going to be part of the services that are to be produced by the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e564	I can assure the representative Jon Olav Alstad that we will do our best to cooperate with the forces of the Workers' Party – and there are quite a few of them – that are not concerned with market solutions, but are concerned with the community. I believe that the financial support of the LO Congress for SV is an expression that the LO sees that SV and LO have very similar foundations for strengthening the public sector. I believe that I made it quite clear that conversion and renewal must come from below, and that must come from those who are at the forefront of the ministry. It is important that we listen to them, and that is why I believe that it is precisely from there that the transition must come. It's a willingness to change. It also shows the model community trials, where the Municipal Council, the Local and Regional Councils and the municipalities have merged on a renewal. And it shows that it's useful. It shows that this is a dangerous way to go. But conversion costs too. One has to make funds available for conversion, as the private sector does. Therefore, we need to be clear in our work that migration is good, renewal is good, renewal on the welfare state basis is good, renewal that takes into account the dignity of the individual is good, and renewal that takes into account the workers, so that they can really be used as the resource they are is good. But we also have to be willing to stand up from the Biggest side to stimulate conversion, also financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e573	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e576	Left puts the human being in the center — the individual city. Public administration should be there to solve tasks that become too large for the individual. At the same time, we believe that there must be clear limits to the power and expansion of the public. The public must not take on tasks that can best be done by private, voluntary or natural networks in the home and the community. We depend on the existence of clear frontier rises and the distinction between what is public activity and what is private interest. And often we can achieve the same political direction of developments if we see clear demands to solve the problems we've done, then let others do them. The Government of Bondevik, under the leadership of Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim, developed the ‘Simplify Norway’ programme. The goal was to develop a management that is easier for users to meet. I would like to highlight the following measures: all governmental activities shall provide users with their service declarations, i.e. a concrete and easily understandable presentation of what they can expect in their meeting with the public documents community access portal for all public information – then I am thinking of electronic information, what is in our telecommunications electronic data exchange and reporting public service offices assessment of the management's internal efficiency, simplification and redistribution of tasks; The most important thing is to release more of the public resources for service production and use less for administration and control. But the individual citizen is not just a user of the public in terms of client or client. One is also a citizen with the right to participate and influence, with legal certainty. In its decision, the Kosmo State Council points to a regulatory mandate where the Government expects at least 570 country-wide regulations to be lifted. These, plus about 113 more, were ready for replacement when Kosmo became the Council of State. So here's no time to lose. The left's proposal to introduce sunset laws is also a contribution to simplification. There is a need for proper legal clearance to ensure a simpler and more up-to-date law and to make it easier for citizens to identify. We have nearly 6 000 legal paragraphs regulating the municipal sector, and it goes without saying that municipal self-government is weak. If the public is to be able to carry out the welfare tasks that are necessary, we must use human capital as effectively as possible. The left wants to bring in the city pay, so-called guaranteed minimum income. With urban wages, society can be simplified and a number of schemes can be dismantled. Resources in a queueed labour market can be released, and this will greatly improve the value creation and efficiency of the public sector. A lot of social and social benefits and study funding will be part of a civic wage. The left wants coordination of municipal social services, state social security and state labour market services. This will give the user an instance to stick to, and large resources can be saved through simplification - resources that can be used to make everyday life easier and more valuable to those who need help. We need better cooperation and interaction between different public authorities. This is primarily to give the individual the help it needs. Here, greater flexibility and discretion must be shown than today. When we look at the voluntary sector, we also see the need to reduce the form field, by saying that all volunteers who set up can use time not to fill in forms, but to work for their community. I also want to bring forward what is going on in security measures, in coastal management. There are actually ten different departments that are currently responsible for the security measures along our coast, so there are great possibilities for simplification and improvement. When it comes to the supervisory authorities, the Left has repeatedly proposed coordination of them, simply to use the competences that exist here, because there is often a need for the same competence. But the main challenge is the competition for labour. We need to use the resources available in public administration, but when we also know about the great need around for labour, and know about companies that have to say no to the job because they lack people to do the job, then we also see the need to open up for greater labour immigration, and I hope that the Labour Party will show a little more flexibility – because they are the ones with the key.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e625	To start with the labour force situation: as one might have heard the news this morning, it is some research community that is seriously concerned about how it is possible, especially in the small municipalities, to provide the labour needed for the violent efforts needed in the care sector, health care and school sector in the years to come. Some of this labour force actually needs to come about by simplifying rules, reducing bureaucracy, and changing state governance, so that municipalities get more space for action and flexibility. This means that for each state job that disappears in District Norway, there will be new and more jobs in each municipality. Perhaps the most terrible thing we can do to District Norway is not to take this structural change in the state sector and thereby destroy the possibilities for municipalities to develop their care services. It can be a painful process from time to time, especially in municipalities with a high level of public employment. Vadsø is an example of this. Therefore, hopefully, the Stortinget also closes to the Government's proposal to increasingly move state-owned businesses out of Oslo. There does not have to be whole establishments, but there may be areas of activity. The new computer technology enables us, in a number of areas, to place all or part of the business out. In fact, we have to be willing to use this tool to achieve the necessary conversion, under the protection of both public sector employees and residents in the district of Norway. We can do this. But that means, of course, that you have to be willing to realize that everything can't be like it before – some jobs disappear, some have to get more skills, and some have to change jobs to something new. I think that's actually a prerequisite for us to do the problems we're facing in District Norway. Then there's someone who's so worried about this market as some terrible stuff -- which you relate to every day you go to the store. It must be quite clear: I am not a member of the state's market power to control the hospital sector. But I am in favour of patients' ability to use their market power, which should enable them to receive treatment when they need it. This is what the hospital reform is all about – ensuring that we have a degree of flexibility and autonomy, but also moving between the different districts and counties, which means that we can actually offer better patient treatment. If the Socialist Left Party has not understood that, then I don't understand how to write the documents to the Stortinget. The purpose of the Workers' Party is far from bringing large capital into the hospital system, which is why we have shaped the law as we have shaped it. There shall be a security and a guarantee that patients will receive treatment, irrespective of where they live. In fact, if you want to make changes to the structure we have in District Norway, the question will be dealt with in Stortinget. Today it is such that any civilly constituted state can pick from each other the entire hospital and place it on a tender, without the state being able to do anything. So SV should be very happy about the proposal that the Workers' Party is now presenting. Then I agree with the representative Lånke that we cannot operate general government for the sake of general government. We're going to run public administration because we believe in some basic principles that will prevail in this society: human dignity, freedom and equality. It is quite clear that general government must be the guarantor that these values can be continued. That's why I'm skeptical about putting out competition as an instrument. By having public responsibility, but also by providing the production of the important care services, we can just stick to these important values.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e647	I am happy to have a confirmation from the Council of State that he agrees that we are going to try to add up to a welfare system that ensures that it is the values that are being realised. Now I also agree, and I would like to support a proposal to move businesses out of Oslo, on which we were challenged. But I want to follow up on what I took up in my first post, this with goal and result management. There are concepts taken from the private sector, which it has been running on for a number of years now. It looks like we've come to a point where we might have to moderate ourselves a little bit in relation to this. My question goes on with the evaluation of leaders. They shall be held responsible for the results they produce — something like this was stated in the statement of the Kosmo Council of State. My question is, what criteria should be used to evaluate? Are there clear outcomes weighted in heads and ears, or do you have other measurable values to use as a starting point? I want to challenge the Council of State to reason a little bit about it. Then the Council of State has also spent some of its time talking about moving resources from administration to direct provision of services. When we talk about a tight labour market, and in the same sling also about competence, I assume that he primarily thinks about staff resources. I ask, how will he do this – re-train bureaucrats, managers and middle managers in the public sector, in administration and bureaucracy, to help nurses and nurses? Are there any examples to which the Council of State can refer, where he has succeeded in doing this? What we're seeing more now is that nurses take on jobs as flight attendants and shop cookie agents. How will the Council of State solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e656	It is clear that a head of the public to be assessed on the results cannot be assessed on the results only in relation to the budget. It is also necessary to consider whether the intention and ambition of the public sector are successful. And it's the ambitions that both the Storting and the Government have founded, whether it's social security offices, employment offices or what it is. That is what must be in the criteria. So I agree that just measuring results, and having so-called measurement by just measuring the problems, will not work fully in the state. It's one of the hardest things. In almost all policy areas, the state operates an intensive regulatory regime. In fact, for public sector employees, the rules have become a way of life so that they do not use what we want them to use, the reason – because there is always some rule to which you have to relate. That's why this further development, this desire for flexibility, means that we also have to stop fixing rules and governing to those degrees. But, of course, we're going to have national targets. Of course, we should have national policy objectives on where we want to go with the different businesses. But it doesn't have to mean that we have to control everything through a rule, because then we don't get the necessary degree of flexibility. Then it's quite obvious, and I don't expect the lawyers to be re-trained and enter the care professions in the municipality. But a lot of people are recruited into these sectors every year, and it's a relatively large departure. And if we stop talking about the individual person who's going to be re-schooled, and talk about structure, I think we're pretty quick to see that in a few years we've managed to get to the transition that's necessary, among other things. in the case of termination benefit schemes, the possibility of going from State activity to private activity, and of getting new people from private activity and into those public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e665	I have few or no problems in supporting and accepting most of what the Council of State said in its statement, in so far as also in the post he now made, except for the new suggestion that the hospital reform was a coup d'état against bourgeois rule. Most of what Kosmo has said in the statement is fine. The problem is what Kosmo doesn't say. He said something about it at the end of his post now, namely that competitive outsourcing is not something to bet on. After all, he has shown himself to be one who is in the rush for the renewal of the public sector. In fact, in important areas, this Government has made a right of retreat from the previous government. When Laila Davøy gave the previous administrative policy statement, two times, she gave the following signal: ‘Although the ordering responsibility for a service is public, the responsibility for the provision of the service does not necessarily need to be the responsibility of the State and the municipality. Private operators and non-profit organisations can demonstrate entrepreneurship responsibility here by competing for the producer role. Such competition will give a positive incentive to public service providers of the same services and will also facilitate the definition of price and quality requirements by the public authority ordering services.’» I am disappointed that Kosmo does not take up this thread. In my opinion, much of the key is to streamline public service production right here. There has also been a public investigation – the Sandbeck Committee – which was put in a drawer at Kosmo last year. State Secretary Marianne Seip Haugsnes commented on the competition investigation as follows: ‘Competition concession is not a priority task for us in the government. Renewal of the public sector is most important.» Yes well — no. There's a signal that's completely contradictory. It is precisely putting out competition that will be one of the most important public sector renewal strategies. What is the reason why Kosmo has totally omitted this? Is there nothing to pick up on competitive outsourcing? And doesn't the government want that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e686	That's probably why we belong to each of our parties: for me, the renewal of the public sector is actually making the public sector and the offers we have, better available to the population, with a good quality. And from the experience of some countries we can compare ourselves to, especially in the areas of health, care and school, competitive outsourcing leads neither to good efficiency nor to some improvement in the supply of the population, primarily because the actual order role is so difficult to order a product that is still changing. It then means that a person actually builds up a pretty high bureaucracy to handle the ordering role in such a competitive outsourcing. Elder care and hospital care are not a product that you can shape like that and say that we are submitting a tender. That's something that changes all the time. I am serious about the fact that using the forces now on such an uncertain project as the outsourcing of health, care and school will be a waste of resources. We have to be concerned about making the public system work in such a way that we can actually deal with it. That's why I think the government's proposal for hospital reform is a great fleet and a fantastic reform to make even better use of the resources in hospitals, for the benefit of patients. Rather than embarking on some uncertain pilot projects with a competitive edge!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e691	It was far more polite to hear the state council in free dressage than the completed script – which has been influenced by others – that he last read. But it is a completely logical flaw when he rejects the outsourcing of competition. Here we have just received input-based funding in the health sector, where the Swedish National Agency (Rikstrøgdeverket) pays a public hospital as well as so many dollars for a brocket operation, a gray-sized operation or what it is. Why does the council disagree that if a private, approved clinic with qualified doctors carries out the same gray star operation, the same chest operation or the same lung operation, then the Rikstrøgdeverket must be able to pay exactly the same number of dollars to the private? That is exactly what leads to market power for the patient – as the Council of State said. But he doesn't mean it! The patient does not get market power if it is that there are cows in the public hospitals, and the patient is not allowed to use the crowns paid by the Rikstrygdeverket to the public hospital, which finally performs the operation half a year or a year later. Why does the Council of State disagree that if there is a private clinic that can do the same operation under the same reassuring conditions, the funds can go to it, so that people are operated on earlier? Does that mean today the Council of State says, that he agrees more with Jan Davidsen, who hates the word outsourcing, than he is with Kjell Bjørndalen, who before the LO Congress said it was not so important whether it was private or public that produced a service in the care of the elderly/health care, as long as it was ensured that it was the public that had control of the quality, and that it was going well? Has Jørgen Kosmo now suddenly changed from being Kjell Bjørndalen's follower to becoming a Jan Davidsen trailer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e700	Fortunately, I can agree with the Government and will not decide whether I should necessarily agree with someone – neither one nor the other. I believe that what is presented as inconsistencies within the LO, is clearly a lot of contrived disagreements. I believe that the Municipal Association and parts of the LO are wrong, when they believe that the business model within the healthcare companies that we set up is not the right model. I am convinced that with the organisation we have chosen in the hospital sector, we get an offer that really allows patients to have some real choices. But the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen act as if the specialist resources that need to be available to give people a proper treatment are something that you can just get out of a heavy fine and put around, and then you hope that a whole lot of units compete with each other. It's not like that! The reality is that we have a lack of competence in these areas, and that these resources must be managed! And then they are best managed through a public system, which takes patients first and foremost into account – taking into account that patients should receive treatment and that they should receive good treatment. This is not contrary to the fact that one can still rely on a system of input-driven funding, where hospitals, based on the specialities they have, have to accept patients from all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e709	I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for his reflections on the competitive outsourcing. I fully agree with him in his objections to this. To the market in general, I would say that my view is that the pured market forces are basically primitive. What democracy is all about to me is that as a popularly elected body, we need to correct and adjust market forces, which are really the strongest right. But then it is that it is necessary to use the market forces to bring about a dynamic. It is therefore important to recognise the dilemmas and to try to find the point of intersection between the functioning of the market and what must be the policy-driven objectives. I would like to address this as the Kosmo Council of State now began its contribution, namely labour. There is a shortage of labour, it is said. I actually know a lot of people who don't get work. It's a cross of thought for me. But I think it's right to say that there are too few people in this country. Then we have to make sure to use the ones we have, in the right way – using them by giving them the opportunity to use their powers in the workplace. It is not difficult to find examples of young people who have a disease or disability and who are met with the provision of social security for 20–21–22 years on and off. And what's the reason for that? Well, what I hear is that there's too much work to make sure that those who need a little help to get out of business actually get it. That's what the Council of State should be looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e721	Yes, I fully agree with the representative of Enger Lahnstein that there are tens of thousands of people in this country who, if they had a chance and conditions were set up for it, would work, and would be able to work, and who actually have both the skills and the knowledge to do a job – whose conditions were facilitated. What we are doing, as we call the labour reform, is therefore perhaps one of the most important reforms in the renewal process. This means that both the state, the municipalities and the private business have to look at our social security system with slightly different eyes than what you do today. We have to set up both treatment and payment in relation to social security based on people's abilities, not on people's limitations, as we do to a very large extent today. That means that we need to have greater flexibility out there so that the social security official can make the right decision based on the individual he's faced, not based on a decision in a social security law and a law that's completely governed. That means that the state, on its side, must be willing to use social security in combination with work far more than what we are doing today. It must be much better for a person to have the opportunity to use his or her work capacity, for example. 70-80 pst. and get 20-30 pst. social security, instead of getting a full disability pension, as it is in many cases today. We have a great potential right here. But even if we're able to pick this up, our health, school and care challenges are so great that we have to free labour from bureaucracy to service production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e733	I'm going to give the Council of State credit for two things, for the first thing he said last time, that we have to look at each individual and not look at the rules – that is, people have to have a chance. And the example I gave in my article was just an example that here you have to use more sense. We are convinced that by using Aetat much more actively in collaboration with other agencies, it is possible to give people the opportunity to use their resources differently from what they are doing today. Then I am also pleased that the Council of State strongly defends the public sector. For us, almost the main reason for the public sector is that it gives people the opportunity to participate – an important part of democracy. But I realize that I have been teasing in a sore toe, when I am accused of being old-fashioned in relation to saying that the market is not usable. Kosmo State Council says that they use the shops, in market thinking. Then I would say that patients and health are not an item, and I assume that Kosmo agrees with me. If SV is lingerie, then LO is also lingerie. Does it not worry that the hospital reform itself is based on a market model? The business model is a way of bringing the market much more into health care. Similarly, it is a model where you strengthen the order delivery model that Kosmo so powerfully distances from otherwise. I just want to challenge the Council of States to cooperate with the SV and the Central Party in order to achieve a better reform instead of cooperating with the right forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e745	The treatment of the hospital reform is not to be done here and now. It's in another committee, and it's also a different process. What's going to result from this will only later show. But I actually believe that the Socialist Left Party is wrong when they say on the one hand that they want less central control, and on the other hand they say that they want better patient treatment, and they want to rely on a management model. No, the hospitals and patients are no good, but a hospital is no government agency either. They're not in charge, they're in charge. And we have to make sure that we put the business in these very important institutions that the public is going to run, in such a way that we both get them to take responsibility for the reality they're in, and get an effective organization. It shall not be possible for any decision taken by the hospital management to be appealed against or appealed against by a number of administrative bodies and political bodies. I am therefore convinced that the model we have chosen for the organisation of the hospital service is the right one. And when I am convinced that it is the right one, I am not less convinced even if others disagree. But it is with democracy that we discuss and find solutions. Then we just have to accept that it is the Storting, as the country's main political body, who is going to make the decision on how this will be in the future. So I just have to say that I want to use more discretion. I want to reduce the rigid control that we have today, and I actually want to accept that from time to time some similar cases may be treated differently. But I think that's necessary if we're to cultivate functionality and competence instead of constraints. We will facilitate this in the review of the legislation we now have for the Labour Market Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e757	The State Council of the Cosmos presentation of the objectives he and the Government have for a simpler, more efficient and less detailed and part-time controlling Norway is good. The coastal party also agrees that it is very necessary to clean up the jungle of regulations that currently govern both the administration itself and the management of individuals and matters. Clean-up must be aimed not only at significantly reducing the scope of rules and regulations but also at providing the regulations with a design that reflects the legality of the laws adopted for the area. The Coastal Party supports the strengthening of the county's role as judicial security body. This is a relationship I also previously – as a member of the Right fraction – have recommended. However, it is equally important that regulations have a design that can help individuals to better understand their rights and thus exercise self-control over administrative decisions. It should not be necessary for individuals in our regulated society to be legally educated in order to understand the rights and limitations of individual laws, which are of great importance to individuals. Simplification of access to and simplified treatment of public responsibility would undoubtedly release labour. The Governments point to the problems of a tight labour market, but it is true that the Labour Party's policy over time has created tightness in the labour market, with an increasing number of young people on disability and an increasing number of early retirementists. There's a school policy in this country that sends out signals that if you're not school-motivated, schooly and know what you want when you're 16, society will probably not need you later. Through Reform 94, where an upper age limit was set for the right to secondary education, and through well-considered environmental regulations that block young people without school motivation to get to work, the reform of the Workers' Party in the 1990s has led to the dehulling of a potential workforce in Norway. Young people who do not find their place early fall out until they have been given the opportunity to mature. A forced extension of the irresponsibility of childhood leads too many to a lifelong dependence on public transfers. I am convinced that if we create a gap between primary and secondary schools and give young people a job opportunity as they mature, while they look for themselves and their future, it could prevent many of the problems that today lead an increasing number of young people right across from home care to public care through disability. This will not only increase labour supply, it will reduce social expenditure, the cost of popular fear, reduce the pressure on psychiatry and reduce the staffing needs of the public services that are currently taking care of those people who have problems in our society. «Employment conversion» is a concept that we increasingly see used in the various communications coming from the Government, but the conversion shows experience also dehulling. The conversion means that people who still have many years left for a normal retirement get the offer of final packages, they get the offer of early retirement, they go on waiting pay. Very many who could have done valuable work in our society are put on the sidelines long before they want it. This is also a result of the policy pursued by the Workers' Party for many years. Demands for efficiency aimed at those who work at the bed and at the pult – and that is where we need the labour force today – have been the review tone, so I am glad that the efficiency requirement now goes into the administration, towards those who sit in the offices, those who move the papers. The centralisation policy is not only about the closure of public supply in the districts, but also about the over-investment of the Government in the Oslo area and the Eastern region, because public investment takes precedence over private investment. Here, too, the Central Party has its great responsibility. It is central government councils that have directed large investment projects towards the Oslo region, building investments that will lead to increased investment needs also in the transport sector, thereby undermining the ability of districts to get their share of the investment needed by District Norway in order to maintain their viability and residence. I welcome the Kosmo State Council's assurance that new state activities will be located in the districts, and recommend that they be excluded from the press areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e778	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e781	Only two or three sentences at the end of the debate. I am pleased that the Storting has supported the need to convert the public sector and support some of the proposals submitted by the Council of State. I hope to support the upcoming issues so that we can also get multiples even if resistance can come. There's only one question I'm left with now, and it's the claim from the SV and the Central Party that they have – as the representative Enger Lahnstein said – an understatement of the fact that it's the market forces that are in debt, and that's centralization. I would like to know where a fin documented it – in the action plan ‘Skrit on the road’, in which the Council of State said on Friday, or what has been said from the Labour Party’s side here. I was hoping that a non-conformity would not exist by showing internal relationships in the Workers' Party, which obviously other people from outside know better than us. The reason I actually took the floor was not to draw up a new debate, but to comment on the proposals from the representative, Valle. When it comes to the first proposal, it has been dealt with earlier in connection with the consumer message. We want it to be turned into a transmission proposal, and we hope that the representative, Valle, is willing to do so. In the case of proposal No: 2, the Labour Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e792	This is an important debate for all of us who believe that effective, flexible and good Community solutions are one of the pillars of a good society, and who believe that a good society is only a welfare society based on the ideal of equality for all people. However, if we are to maintain today's public offer and create new, good Community solutions, the solutions must meet the demands of the citizens today, not yesterday's demands. Claiming that everything should be what it is or has been will be inviting for privatisation. Then private solutions force themselves whether we want to or not. In my view, the Council of State gave a very good reason why it is so important that we are able to renew the public sector. Despite the fact that we see many examples of public taking the challenges seriously, we can roughly almost say that most public services are organized after a reading that was created decades ago. The Councils of State mentioned, for example: a special district division established over a hundred years ago. I would particularly like to stress the need for a change of attitude in the central political and administrative apparatus. The recognition of the ability of regional and local authorities to assess which solutions are best for each community and individual. This means not only that the number of earmarked appropriations should be reduced, but also that the control systems of the State should be reduced. Sometimes you can get the feeling that parts of the system are still based on the fact that skills are only found in the office of the capital. But the fact is that today there is probably as much competence in a medium-sized municipality as in a department. The need for control is in no way the same today as it was 10-20 years ago. The Council of State also pointed out that, in order to create equality, differences sometimes have to be treated differently. I would like to underline that too. But then each decision must be as close as possible to those affected. In that case, the decision-making authority may not be far inside a department, and we must also show confidence in the vital body that rigid control mechanisms are abolished. In addition, those who review and archive control forms have good use for other work. The rule must be that those who receive responsibility take responsibility. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the importance of having reliable cooperation between management and other employees in the necessary conversion processes. Security for future work will be crucial here, but, like the Council of State, I would argue that it does not mean security to do the same tasks in the future as before. However, without motivation among employees, little or nothing is done. And without safety at work, we will not be able to create the motivation that will be absolutely crucial for a good result. In the end, I would like to draw up the programme that the Government will launch to move tasks and jobs out of the central administration of Oslo. There is also evidence that the Government is taking serious action against localization forces to the same extent as the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e807	Let me first express my great agreement with the last speaker, Gunnar Breimo. If everyone in the Labour Party had thought like him, there were enough people here in the Chamber who would have been very satisfied. When I asked for the word for a three-minute post, it was because the Kosmo Council said he would not retrain lawyers. I wonder which employee groups it is actually the government's intention to convert. In the Question Time here two years ago, the Labour Party representative then asked Restad about unemployment in the shipbuilding industry. Restad replied that in itself it was not negative, as there were no hands in the care professions. The question of follow-up was then whether there were any means of conversion for shiftworkers to be retrained to care workers. But lawyers are not to be re-trained, but the labour force is to be freed into the professions where there is a great need for labour. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State: how many of those released from office production, paper relocation, are the places where the service meets people personally? How many are those who actually go over to wait pay, to early retirement? And how great is the working-stick effect of the conversion measures that you've seen so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e816	As I said – whether it was in my post or in a line, I'm not really sure – we don't have to be so concerned with the individual worker that we can't help but see that what we're talking about in the big picture is the transfer of financial resources and thereby also the movement of labour. There are hundreds of thousands of Norwegians – women and men – who change jobs every year, so the mobility of the labour force is quite enormous in our population. Therefore, I believe that if we are committed to adopting the areas of activity and are able to manage the administrative structure, facilitate conversion and empowerment, and facilitate continuing training, these transitions will actually come about by themselves. But that means that we are willing to follow up the agreement of the social partners on continuing training. This means that we need to be more willing to use the resources we have within the labour market set to ‘adult training’, i.e. resources to increase competence for just being mobile and flexible. But most importantly, it means that we are willing to renounce existing structures to allow such conversion. It's probably the biggest challenge facing us as politicians. In order to avoid some districts that are highly preoccupied with public employees, as I said in my previous post, it is extremely important that, at the same time as industrial development, there should be an emphasis on providing new, public jobs through relocation, in whole or in part, by state enterprises. It also presupposes that the county councils and municipalities themselves are willing to contribute to this work in order to maintain the pattern of housing with fine infrastructure development, and that they actively participate in kindergarten development, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e825	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e839	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e851	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes, one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after posts by members of the Government. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees this as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e862	Let me first thank you for the presentation by an engaged state council. It is positive and necessary that the Storting should also be informed in this way and given the opportunity to discuss what is called the transition to the information society. The government has taken a significant step forward in coordinating responsibility for IT policy and also in interacting in practice. The eNorway plan, which is rolled every six months, involving many important social actors, even outside the state apparatus, appears to be a good tool to effectively influence development. That's what's needed. I am pleased that the Council of State decides that the plan should contribute to ‘an information society for all’ and that we need to ensure access to the new technology for all. «People must be given the opportunity to work where they live», and «uncontrolled technological developments will fall in our backs and drive us into a society we do not want». It was a bit of a quote. Does the Government really want this strong enough? It seems to me that ‘decentralization’ has become an unknown foreign word for the Government. It's sad. Lack of willingness to decentralize society is a constant feature of many of the issues that the Government has put forward in ours. ICT offers great opportunities to move workplaces and jobs from the press areas. I am afraid that the opposite is happening, and therefore the Central Party will take concrete initiatives in the Stortinget. When the Business Committee visited Troms, we met an IT company that told us about fine growth, and had gathered considerable expertise both in Tromsø and in the region centre. Then they had experienced losing jobs for the state of Oslo, even though they were the lowest in price. They considered having to move parts of the staff to Oslo in order not to be discriminated against. I have heard of several such examples and promote proposals to impose on the State what should be a matter of course: ICT providers throughout the country should be treated equally, whether they have offices in Oslo or ei. The centre party believes there can be moved out of many state jobs from Oslo. Today, only 900 out of 13,500 jobs are in the central administration outside Oslo. Between 1000 and 1500 annual works can be moved out relatively easily concluded an official group set up by the central government last February. Means and progress plan for this relocation were also provided. Furthermore, the officials proposed a new review to assess the relocation of the directorate. So it's clear for action, but as far as I know, nothing has happened. I would like to be very careful today to suggest that SND can have its head office in Harstad and the Directorate of Labour at Røros. Think of the second debate we could then have on jobs and skills as a basis for housing! The center party comes back to this in other matters in ours. Later in today's debate, one concrete possibility of relocation will be highlighted and proposed. So we'll see. Governments state that good broadband coverage is to be used to balance social and regional differences in the country. I can't see that the government is doing what is needed to get to this. For the Center Party, the realization of the digital all-man rights is important, and there is a concrete job that needs to be done. We will not wait for years to see which parts of the country the market will not cover with networks and services. We are convinced that large parts of the country will not be covered by the deadlines with which the Council of State operates. Now the Council of State says, at a reasonable time and at reasonable prices, we're going to be covered all over the country. Just before the government change – on 9 March last – the party leader Thorbjørn Jagland said: ‘We in the Workers’ Party have long been a driving force in developing a so-called broadband network – a high-speed data transmission network – across the country. And we've thought that it doesn't last to leave this to the private actors – that must be government governance." Status per day Today, in the case of broadband, media reports: Norway is the worst on broadband in the Nordic region. Half of the country's town halls are unconnected. Only 9 pst. municipalities have money in the year’s budget for broadband betting. The IT companies concentrate jobs and investments in the Oslo area. It appears that the Government’s time limits for public institutions and households are no longer realistic. The government has no concrete objective in relation to the connection of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the price differences are not mentioned. The Central Party will establish a State Fund for the deployment of broadband networks where the market is not functioning. It takes a lot more than 350 million. kr in the year's budget, which shall cover so much. We can't wait and see! The Swedish model is interesting. They'll grant 8 billion over a few years. They give tax credits to private enterprises and households linked to them. Norway is hardly cheaper to expand than Sweden. If we want an information society for everyone – at the same time and at the same price – in practice and that it is not just going to be spoken, society has to be willing to pay more. In that case, I would just like to finalise the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e906	Morten Lund has looked forward to the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e909	Only in the short time I have been a member of the Stortinget and the Stortinget Business Committee, we have discussed IT policy and topics related to IT several times. The themes have been purely internal Norwegian issues, but also cooperation and coordination with other countries in Europe. This well illustrates the fact that we have to do a decent job here in the country, but at the same time we have to coordinate with others, and in particular this European country. In order to be able to interact in an equivalent and effective manner, it is necessary to have legislation that is not too diverse but a regulation that simplifies and promotes trade and contacts with persons and businesses internationally. At the same time, such trade and contact must be as secure as possible. That is why we are discussing the Electronic Signature Directive, where the practical benefit is that an electronic signature should be as secure and legally binding as a handwritten signature. The previous IT policy statement was made one year ago, and in the meantime we have received the mid-term report for eNorway. This underscores the commitment and willingness of the Minister of Industry to find the right means for Norway to be at the forefront of making use of the increasingly efficient information and communication technology. The goal is an information society for all. The new technology can give us the opportunity to include more in school and work than was previously possible. More people with disabilities will be able to be included in the labour market by means of the new technology. It is then about using the technology for facilitating, but also about doing work in the field of information and communication technology. Achieving the ability of universal design and function equipment can facilitate the access to the use of the technology for both disabled and disabled persons. Since the previous presentation on Norwegian IT policy, the exchange values for Norwegian and international IT companies have fluctuated significantly. In particular, these Internet companies are concerned. Exchange values were usually justified on the basis of expectations of good development and performance in a rather unknown market, and it was unknown how and how rapid development would be. It was not difficult to predict that not all companies could keep the high value when the financial statements were subsequently presented. If the Internet companies can be specific in terms of form and pace of work, then it also applies to these companies that they must eventually refer to positive operating results for their owners. When these didn't come, there was an impairment and bankruptcy of many companies. The Minister of Industry stressed in his statement that this stock exchange shock does not mean the end of the IT revolution, which is, of course, quite correct. It's just a little mindset for everyone in the industry. So many people in retrospect might say that this had to happen, and that this Internet wave contained a lot of senselessness and madness. I don't think we should regret that there was such a wave. The triggered daringness, creativity and rapid development, with most of them not attached. That this boldness and creativity did not lead to expected economic results for all, is so, but this wave had an impact on the interest and speed of development, and so it was good learning for everyone in this sector of IT. Meeting places and contact networks were formed, and these meeting places and contact networks were not lost with the companies. They are still there and will be useful in the further development of the IT industry. Where does it stand and where does Norway go in this new development? Here are the answers and the visions of the future. Finally, it was said that Norway would be lagging behind in economic development because we had not made sufficient use of the new tool. In some statistics, Norway appears to be one of the countries where the new technologies are most widely used. This applies to mobile phone use, Internet use and other uses based on personal computers. And at the same time we're told that we're following. In this debate, it is easy for us to focus too much on the use of the Internet, the use of electronic mail and the use of mobile phone with all its possibilities. On some of its journeys, the Economic and Social Committee has experienced the use of new technologies in companies of different kinds — including in traditional industrial enterprises. An adventurous self-development of the individual enterprise is demonstrated, where technology is used in management systems for the production of different products. Oil extraction can be increased due to new and smarter production modes. The use of the new technology plays a crucial role in this development. In the enterprise by enterprise, there is such a development, so we can determine that the new technology will be the key to new progress. This will allow us to compete with countries where wages are at a lower level than in Norway because we have a technological advantage in production. We also see that the corporate structure changes by large companies purchasing less. At the same time, there is a constant supply of start-ups. For Norway, it is important that there is a diversity of enterprises in the ICT sector. In this way broadband access will be of major importance. Some transmission capacity that is stable and affordable will give companies in the districts the same conditions as companies in central districts. It is reassuring that the Government is closely monitoring developments and that the objective of access for all Norwegian households is achieved by the end of 2004. But then we can imagine that the cost of access to the electronic motorways becomes so high that it becomes, at prices, impossible for smaller communities with relatively few enterprises to get on a network of high capacity, as technology is offered today. Right here, the government needs to be extra vigilant to take the steps needed to achieve its goal after the timetable. The issue of broadband deployment has been the degree of involvement of the State. Norway chose a different route from Sweden, and this may indicate that the Norwegian model is as good as the Swedish one. At the same time, the technology for the transmission of digital signals is developing rapidly. It may happen that in a relatively short time we can access the Internet in the same way that we receive our radio and TV signals. And who knows, maybe it can be a more advanced remote control for TV that gives us the Internet just via the TV, and that the TV screen also becomes our PC screen? One shall not preclude anything in this rapid development. The mobile office with wireless connection is a reality. Such offices can become quite natural in an industry where quick access to their own company and customers is crucial. If safety is as good in a wireless network as in a wired network, one should not ignore the fact that the wireless office will be very widespread. Maintaining diversity also means that Norway needs to have strong and high-quality professional and developmental environments. This may apply both to software with tailor-made solutions for the more traditional industry and to the development of equipment. Research and development as well as good education will be key factors here. Such education must take place throughout our school system, but also to a large extent within the individual enterprise. Solid basic training with further continuous development at the workplace will be the model for obtaining adequate skills. Stable and predictable framework conditions will also be of great importance, and the public debate will focus primarily on the framework conditions for development, despite the fact that it is the individual developer and the individual enterprise that is most important for innovation. In several studies it is established that the human factor is decisive. In this sense, creating good development environments where good developers can develop will be as important as financial support schemes. The Government’s programme for the renewal and simplification of the public sector depends on the widespread use of information and communication technologies. Yes, in many cases, the technology itself is driving the processes ahead. When 400,000 people in Norway have delivered their tax returns via the Internet, it says a lot about the power and opportunities offered by the technology. Then a regret can be that this could lead to fewer jobs. However, we in Norway are lucky people who need labour elsewhere in the business world. Conversions take some time, but there is nothing new. If we are able to seize the opportunities, new jobs will be able to replace those lost using the new technology. Again, this is linked to organisation, and not least to the competence and creativity of individuals. This is well in line with the Minister of Industry's goal of bringing everyone into the IT revolution we are experiencing. That's true of all of us. Wherever we live in the country, we can participate in the national effort this is, and participate in creating the good attitudes and acceptable development environments that both the industry and the communities around us depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e941	The President would like to point out that with the help of IT, a few people can see what is going on outside the Chamber. Former President Bill Clinton was about to leave the Lion's Hill after a visit to the Stortinget, without one having to take it immediately in the eyes of the window. That's where it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e947	I must say that when I heard the post from the previous speaker, I thought that it had so much substance in it that it had lit more than just the backs away by the glass. But it's good that there's a referendum coming up, so it's going to be possible to figure out what was said. The Minister of Industry’s IT policy outreach had no major surprises. We got a good introduction to how the Government has organized its work on eNorway, and how to get new versions of the eNorway process plan twice a year. Version 2.0 will come in June. In a few years, numbers have passed the numbering in common computer applications, which despite commercial forces have a strong desire to replace them most often possible, rarely have new versions more than once a year. I have noticed that eNorway will build on three pillars: access, competence and trust. These three elements are all important. In particular, it is important to focus on competence. Developments towards a society where IT technology is becoming more and more common must not lead to many being put on the sidebar, either in the workplace or in everyday life. We already have a society where competence is a bigger brake pad than access, among other things. in relation to the use of new supplies, e.g.: on the Internet. Trust is also an important moment. Many suggest that a lack of trust can be a greater barrier compared to, for example, the lack of confidence. trade over the Internet other than access and competence. I have noticed that the Government has defined broadband as a high transmission capacity, not a physical transmission line. This allows different technologies to be used according to local circumstances. I am pleased that this was clearly underlined in the Minister's statement. According to what the minister said, the government has a broadband plan, where the strategy is to stimulate broadband expansion through the market mechanism, with increased public demand as a response. It's also completely in line with the previous government's plan. But as time passes, I lack a more concrete plan – an overview of where a network is built, where there are plans for expansion, and where there are no plans for expansion. I notice that the Council of State pointed to two important objectives for the expansion of broadband. Before 2004, all households will have good market supply and broadband connectivity, and by the end of 2002, all primary and secondary schools, as well as all public libraries, hospitals and municipal administrations will have good market access to broadband. Governments have not said that all schools should be connected to broadband, but that they should have good market access. Then it will be up to the municipalities to assess whether they can afford to connect the schools to the network. With the economic situation in many municipalities, we can quickly get many schools without broadband. I have also noticed that the Council of State did not say anything about the price. A good market offer – what is it? If IT and broadband are to provide lower distance costs, we need to ensure that there are no significant price differences, where districts get a much higher price than one in the cities. So I want to challenge the Council of State. Would you like to see a proper list of known development plans from the government? Will the Council of State present a plan showing the number of schools, libraries, hospitals and municipal administrations expected to be connected to broadband by the end of 2002? And will the Council of State submit a plan to ensure that those who may not become associated with broadband on 1 January 2003 are brought together as quickly as possible? I also want to challenge the Council of State to assess what the Government and the State can do to ensure the most possible equivalent supply in the whole country at the most equal prices possible. Will the State Council assess whether to compensate for higher expansion costs in some municipalities? Demand is the Government’s main tool to ensure the development of a nationwide broadband network, and municipal institutions are to ensure this public demand. Will the Government ensure that municipalities whose costs are higher than the average are covered by its additional costs? I have noticed the copies used by the state councils, including The Ryfylke project. And that's quite right, it's a good setup. But then it's important that we be able to find a size of the budget that allows all municipalities to enter into such a cooperation solution or solution in order to achieve what they have done. There's another way we need an analysis: where and how should this happen? I'm glad we're going to have a nationwide network. I'm glad we're already in Norway between the countries that have the most people who have access to the Internet. Still, we don't see the results we wanted. IT technology has not led to the decentralization of technology itself. It is positive that the Government will ensure expansion throughout the country. But what will the Government do to ensure establishment throughout the country? How will the Government stimulate the creation of new technology and broadband across the country – each single household before 2004 – to help create new jobs, not only in Fornebu, but throughout the country? I have noticed that the Minister of Industry himself stresses that technology must never become the goal itself, but that IT is a powerful tool that can be used to achieve greater political goals, and that without control, technological developments will fall into our backs and drive us into a society we do not want to. I am very pleased that the minister has taken this with him. Technology gives us new challenges. If technology is used incorrectly, there is no development. But if we're using technology right, it gives us new opportunities that we don't yet know the scope of. A recently published OECD report shows that innovation in Norway does not have the extent of the average in the OECD and that one could expect with the good figures we have in many areas when it comes to the proliferation of IT solutions, PC and Internet access, etc. So far, I've just seen this comment and found out, and to a small extent, an analysis of why it is, and what concrete measures it is in terms of distribution and in the plans ahead on how to change this. I think we're making mistakes if we just meet the numbers that are coming, by referring to other statistics that look a little bit better for us. We're going to be happy about them, but Norway has put a lot of emphasis on OECD reports in most areas every year at the same time. Of course, we're going to have a self-assessment of them, but it's alarming that we're not making use of this for innovation. I would therefore also challenge the Minister in this area. She's been thinking so much about what's the cause? And in addition to the useful, interesting and material distribution that has been delivered, what are the bets that one might be able to change the situation that we're up to? I look forward to the state councillor Knudsen's posts here today and to the line change, and whether she takes up some of the gloves that I throw. I mainly have a positive attitude to the analysis, but at the same time there are some questions and some visions that we need to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e981	It's good for the cause that Clinton has left the building, but I can't see that the attention to the posts is increasing to a significant extent for that reason. The statement we are discussing today can be good for its use. It gives a picture of an administration such as: through the eNorway project, public sector provision of IT-based services and procedures. Individuals and businesses shall be able to report, complete application forms and interact with the public through IT. That is good, and it will help increase the use of ICT solutions across the Norwegian community. The Government’s action plan on broadband communications is also positive. However, here it is essential that the pace is proportionate to the objective of providing good market opportunities for connection to the broadband network to primary and secondary schools, public libraries, hospitals and municipal administration by 2002 and to all Norwegian households by the end of 2004. The right agrees that the deployment of the broadband network must primarily be market driven. However, if market demand is not sufficient, it has a public responsibility to stimulate demand. In Sweden, which has chosen a somewhat different approach from Norway, municipalities have a responsibility to coordinate and stimulate demand in their municipalities. In Norway, municipalities play a more passive role as far as I can see. I expect the goal of providing a good broadband offer to central public institutions by the end of 2002 and that the Government has a strategy for achieving the objective even if public and private demand is not sufficient. Has an e.g. assessed public procurement rounds for development in areas with insufficient market demand? As I said, the IT policy statement is good for its use. So the most interesting thing is what's not in the statement. The number of developments in the ICT industry and the use of IT solutions by industry is almost absent. The most concrete thing is a promise of increased emphasis on the gender perspective in SND’s activities. It may be well and good, but is hardly enough for companies that want to know what the framework conditions for next year are, not to talk about the next five to ten years. The OECD's last six months report, which has so far referred to previous speakers, on the economic outlook in the world economy and in the Member States, states that Norway is unable to translate increased use of ICT into productivity growth in the same way as our trading partners. Norway’s commitment to ICT is simply less than that of other countries to ICT. Overall, it is estimated that productivity growth and thus economic growth in Norway in the years ahead will be marked lower than in our competitor country. Surprisingly, this does not seem to take up the government. There is little reason to be satisfied with the permeability of information technology in Norwegian society if the effort is less effective here than elsewhere. A discussion of why this is so should have been central to an IT policy presentation. Instead, the Government has chosen to present a gloss picture with limited operational political value. The reasons why Norway does not have so much left for IT investment are not easy to respond to, but lack of willingness to change in the public sector, a labour market hampered by rigid regulation and lack of investment in research, and in particular on applied business-based research, may be some of the reasons. These are also areas where the government will come to terms with. It states that IT is one of the priority tasks of Norwegian research policy. Nevertheless, the Government chose not to follow the Hervik Committee’s proposals for incentives for business R & D efforts, a scheme that could really help to translate knowledge and research results into commercial products and better services. The report also notes that the nature of the framework conditions needed to facilitate the development of competitive and dynamic ICT companies in Norway is extremely low. There is nothing on how the Government will facilitate the next Nokia to be established in Norway, and I think I know why. The government has chosen the opposite policy. Instead of choosing a policy for growth and innovation, the Government has adopted a policy for relocation and stagnation. In the 2001 government budget, the Government proposed massive tax incentives for business. Both the double taxation of dividends and the deterioration of the depreciation rules represent significant deterioration in the framework conditions of the ICT industry. The proposed short-term economic cost, corresponding to an increase in the employer’s cost of 1.5 p.p., would hit a labour- and knowledge-intensive industry particularly hard. If Norway is to have a chance to succeed and develop an IT industry where both small IT companies and industrial engines such as Nokia and Ericsson have the opportunity to succeed, Norway must be an attractive country for the investment and development of new ideas and businesses. The sitting government has shown that it does not master this task. Information technology and globalisation have led to the establishment and winding-up of new businesses today at a higher rate than before. Developments call for conversion, but in fact they also offer great opportunities for countries that are doing well to develop a climate of innovation and entrepreneurship. Here is the main challenge for the ICT nation of Norway. In order to be seen as a level playing field in which entrepreneurs and investors want to invest and start new business, Norwegian framework conditions must be competitive, otherwise they will not help. There must be good reasons to choose Norway rather than other countries of establishment. We have to have something more to offer than great nature. Keywords are: a highly skilled workforce with skills in business demand, good framework conditions for research, up-to-date electronic infrastructure and competitive tax and tax conditions. Some things cost less than others. Appropriations are one thing, but to show initiative to make changes in the public sector I think will be absolutely crucial. I would like to refer to an article in the Norwegian civil engineers' journal, in which it was described in the last issue that the obstacles must be overcome in order to get experts to Norway. I think there's a lot to do in this area just by establishing an attitude, and the municipalities that the council itself mentions in its investigation show that some municipalities go ahead of others. I think it is possible for Norway to participate in the European Championship for the creation of ICT enterprises. I believe that where it takes four months today to grant a work permit, it must be possible to say that we have a goal in one month, for example. It will not necessarily cost the whole world. What the Government has proposed in this area, and which, to the extent that Kosmo also mentioned in his statement, has gone in the right direction, but I think it is absolutely crucial for us to keep this in focus so that we can be attractive to international institutions and workers who come from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e1000	It is gratifying to record that Norway is fully at the height of advanced use of IT and telecommunications services. We are in close cooperation with other Nordic countries in the use of mobile phones, the Internet and the PC. Since the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade launched the Government's ambitious IT plan, eNorway, last year, there is progress in tracking in a number of areas, such as school IT and home Internet access. But there are some dark clouds in the horizon. The new technologies have not delivered the necessary results in terms of productivity improvements and enhanced competitiveness in business. Here, the contrast is strong to some other countries, and especially to the United States, where the main cause of significant economic growth in the 1990s is the impact of IT at all levels of industry. As others have been involved, more attention needs to be given to this. Why is there not enough willingness to convert, and why is more enterprises in the land-based industry not created based on skills and ICT? The possibilities lie there! Although the national commitment of IT and telecommunications companies has been isolated too little to date, there is scope for strong growth and greater influence on the development of a Nordic food cluster, of which we now see the outlines. Here we talk far from just about Nokia and Ericsson, but for example. on Ørestad, which represents an explosion of new technology businesses in the new economy. The development of an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is one element that can help bring Norway forward to the level we all want. The Council of State stated in its statement that we will soon see an initial concreteisation of the visions on which the Stortinget based its decisions. As the rapporteur for the IT Fornebu project, I have joined in this: the IT and knowledge centre is developing according to the assumptions that Stortinget made for its decision in 2000. Firstly, it was assumed that IT Fornebu should be an internationally attractive knowledge centre to attract skills and enterprises from other countries. In order to contribute to the realisation of this task, a consortium of Telenor, Compaq, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard and IT Fornebu AS has been established. This consortium has developed a framework for a state-of-the-art basic telecommunications and data infrastructure covering all core services and needs. This is now being tested in the old terminal building at Fornebu. Secondly, the Storting stressed the importance of creating an innovation environment in the interaction between research, education and business. Thus, universities and the Norwegian Research Councils have merged to set up an excellent research centre, the Simula Centre, which will be operational from the autumn. This centre shall cooperate closely with both the establishments established on Fornebu and the incubator in the process of being established. IT Fornebu Incubator AS is founded and will be in operation during the year. A cooperation agreement has been concluded between IT Fornebu AS and the Research Park, such as: means that the Research Park participates in the Incubator at Fornebu. Thirdly, the Storting argued that a network should be established between the knowledge centre of Fornebu and the regions. Thus, cooperation agreements between Fornebu and the regional efforts around the country are being worked on. IT Fornebu Knowledge is established for the purpose of establishing an offer for online education aimed at the whole country. Unfortunately, the project has been delayed as a result of the uncertainty with ESA and the discussion of collective solutions to Fornebu. The ESA issue has now been resolved, and the state went into the Fornebu companies with its share from the end of January this year. In the first instance, the Terminal Building will be converted into a miniature knowledge centre, and the first 3000 m2 are already open and fully operational. According to the plan, the whole of the Terminal building has to be completed by the summer of 2002. The interest of the business community in setting up the knowledge centre has been very strong, not to say enormous. This, of course, is also related to the fact that Telenor will open some of its new headquarters in Fornebu as early as November this year. So it's a pleasure to notice that you've started.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e1017	Globalisation has become the new slogan of our time. The Minister of Economic Affairs also used the word several times in his presentation, and more and more people use the concept of globalisation without trying to define it. It's become a great story of our time, and I guess you're trying to say something about the fact that economies, cultures and social forms are being detached from their borders, crossing national and state borders and weaves the world together in new forms of contact, groups of actors, relationships of addiction, and not least self-interpretation. However, this economy is not global. 80 pst. trade takes place between and within the OECD and, as the Minister of Industry pointed out, is 95 pst. by all Internet servers within the OECD area. So large parts of the world are outside what we know to be called globalisation. Differences are increasing, and the poor are getting poorer. This is a development that is not created by digitisation; it is conscious political choices that increased liberalisation has been the political message. Historically, there's nothing new either. We had a corresponding liberalist period at the last century. That period was perhaps even more marked by liberalism than our time is. What makes today's wave more serious is the new technology. It opens up completely different dimensions and reduces the possibility of political governance. So far, only the nation state has been the framework of popular rule and democracy. The digitised world makes it more difficult for democratic control and control. And that should worry us all, because internationally we don't have equivalent democratic institutions that are able to meet this challenge. The majority of this room has chosen a form of IT infrastructure development in Norway that has not been common in infrastructure development. Responsibilities are left to private actors, and the public should influence this by being sought-after, and then by increasing demand. If this means more networks, it's clearly a bad economy for society. Several terrestrial networks are at least poor environmental policies. Tighter masts due to higher frequencies could be an environmental load. We have therefore put forward a proposal, No. 2, where we ask the Government to stimulate the actors to cooperate so that we get a reasonable use of our resources, and not least that we avoid watering the environment. The Research Communication provides one of the strategic areas of action. We know that we are struggling with recruitment problems in the higher education institutions, and we also know that the financial efforts of the community are poor. We haven't followed the targets that we set. One of the most important things we can do is therefore to increase research efforts — basic research and applied research — in this area. We lack professionals in our research environments, so the most important thing is that we get an increased investment in research. In our teaching, the Government chooses a different model in teaching materials for our schools. They choose to go into the production side, and there is something new in relation to how they have previously provided educational material. It has been up to the publishers to produce, and then it has been up to us all and the community to ask. Here's one going into the production side. I think that's a wrong bet. I think the important thing to develop new digital teaching material would be that we facilitate demand. This means that schools, municipalities and individual students have the opportunity to maintain a good demand, and in this way we can get a good production of teaching materials. So there it'll be right to go into the demand side. I'm addressing our two proposals, the proposals no. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-14.ana.ud1577e1034	Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The meeting is now over, and a new meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
