ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e95	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e103	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e108	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e113	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e118	On behalf of the representative Ola D. Glötvold and myself, I will be presented with proposals on the coverage of extra costs and the lending of training equipment for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e123	The representative, Are Næss, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e126	On behalf of the representatives of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and myself, I would like to propose measures to bring healthcare professionals back to their professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e132	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e144	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2848]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e156	Norway is responsible for some of the world's largest and most productive coastal and marine areas. With the vision of ‘Values from the sea – the future of Norway’, the Ministry of Fisheries has set ambitious targets for the national importance of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in the future. Norwegian fisheries management is based on the principle of sustainable harvesting, based on best scientific advice. If there's a big hole in our administration, the system can break down. That's what my statement should focus on. Let me first say that, in my opinion, the vast majority of Norwegian fishermen and fish producers are serious practitioners of a proud professional tradition. The living marine resources are renewable but not inexhaustible. The living marine resources are the joint heritage of Norwegian society. If we live with this inheritance in a good way, it will make a great contribution to the community in the future. If we are to achieve this, all players in the fishing industry must play their part. Everyone must loyally follow the framework and rules that have been drawn up. Access to the joint resource is restricted to a few. Therefore, society must require harvests to be carried out in a manner that does not undermine the value of the sea for future generations. Actions that are contrary to laws and regulations undermine their own future and, in addition, yield unfair benefits at the expense of their neighbours and communities. It is also serious that such individual actions undermine the confidence and acceptance of the rules of the large majority. Unregistered stock withdrawals weaken the scientific basis for the stock assessments underlying the annual quota determinations. Market requirements for good resource management will result in Norwegian producers of fish and fish products increasingly being able to demonstrate that fishing and fishing are taking place within nature’s sustainability, within the limits of the quotas set and by methods that are otherwise ethically sound. It is therefore in everyone's interest that we in Norway have good resource management with an industry that remains within the framework set. In the last year, considerable attention has been paid to illegalities in fishing and fishing. There have been very serious allegations about the extent of the illegalities. Something has been discovered and reacted to, others are still undocumented. But in any case, both the Storting and the Government have wanted to focus their search more strongly on these conditions. Infringement of the necessary framework conditions involves the disposal of valuable social resources. It undermines the economy of both fleet and industry and reduces the ability of industry to contribute to the community. It prevents fair competition between fishermen and between industrial establishments. It weakens our reputation as a seafood producer, and it weakens the trust – and thus the influence of Norway – that is responsible for the international administration of the seas. Therefore, there is a strong need on the part of society for resource control and, if necessary, for a strong need to clean up. I have seen the need for a comprehensive clearance and will explain here the situation, the measures taken and the measures to be taken. The government will attack this case from several sides. Firstly, control needs to be strengthened; secondly, criminal reactions need to be intensified; thirdly, we need to have legislation that ensures good governance; fourthly, we need to simplify legislation so that fishing can be carried out in a rational and good way, and fifthly, ethics and awareness-raising work are fundamental. It's the industry itself that has to take care of. The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for the exercise of Norwegian and foreign fishing in waters under Norwegian jurisdiction – in Norwegian economic zone, at Jan Mayen and in the protection zone around Svalbard – in accordance with Norwegian laws and regulations. The Directorate of Fisheries, Coast Guard and Sales Act are responsible for the carrying out of the control work. Customs and tax authorities are important partners. Today's resource control is characterised by two background conditions. Firstly, from 1997 onwards, the control of the resource take-off by the Directorate of Fisheries has been gradually stepped down, as a result of increased activity in key and priority areas related to quality control. In particular, I would like to point out international obligations in the context of self-control and implementation and follow-up to the EEA Agreement and the veterinary agreement. There were regulatory changes that forced the re-disposal of the control effort in an establishment that did not receive increased resources in conjunction with increased tasks. Secondly, in parallel with this development, there was a clear improvement in the stock situation of cod, herring and mackerel. It can explain why the effects of the lower control body did not become clearer for management and industry until the allowance base was slightly reduced towards the end of the 1990s. The Directorate of Fisheries spent last year's 61 year's work on resource control. This is allocated to various tasks such as kai control, marketing control, marine inspectors, other maritime controls, control of marine mammals, satellite surveillance, surveillance of fishing grounds, general procedures, etc. It is the nine Regional Offices of the Directorate for Fisheries responsible for the practical implementation of resource control. Different geographical, different fishing and different fleet and reception structures mean that control work within the regions varies in scope and content. Monitoring and control of fishing in the sea areas under Norwegian fisheries jurisdiction has been and is the Coast Guard’s main and highest priority task. The coastguard disposes of eleven vessels for these tasks, and about 70 pst. the resources of the Coast Guard are used in this area. Coast Guard resource control is primarily directed at the Norwegian and foreign seagoing fishing fleet. The emphasis is on being present where there is a high fleet concentration and the take-off is large. Frequent inspections are carried out to identify what is being taken up by the sea. Particular attention is paid to checking that no fishing is carried out in areas that are closed, to the control of illegal fishing in the border areas and that no fishing is reported from zones and areas other than where it was taken. Sales have also an important role to play in ensuring good resource control. The marketing teams have been granted the exclusive right for the first-time marketing of fish and are responsible for the registration of all fish traded in Norway. Reliable data are essential to obtain good catch statistics for fishing in Norwegian sea areas. All information is passed on to the Directorate for Fisheries and provides a basis for quota control and statistics. In addition to this document check, two of the six sales teams carry out some checks on the kaikant with the landing of catches. The Norwegian Råfisk team and the Norwegian Sildesselg team currently have five persons each participating in this check. The sales teams report on any irregular situation that is revealed, then to the Directorate for Fisheries, which is responsible for the further processing of the case. The value of intercepted catches in relation to quota exceedances and other illegalities detected falls within the scope of the Sales Act. The efforts made in the resource control carried out by the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard and the sales teams are significant. There were last year inspectors from the directorate present at 2 400 individual landings. But with the approx. However, 400,000 annual individual landings in Norway become a control frequency of only half a per cent. In recent years, the Directorate for Fisheries has re-focused its focus on sales control, which is a document control in the establishments and which is effective but very time consuming in relation to the control of the quay. The number of recent inspections by the Coast Guard has been at a high level. In the last three years, around 3000 inspections have been carried out on Norwegian and foreign vessels per year. years. Over 60 pst. the inspections relate to foreign vessels. On average, seagoing vessels fishing in Norwegian waters will visit the Coast Guard three to four times a year in the case of trawlers and one to two times in the case of the conventional part of the seagoing vessels. The sales teams systematically and continuously reconcile all information from the fisherman and buy against the allowances of the vessels. The numerical control covers all landings and is therefore very extensive. This illustrates that, despite considerable efforts by the control bodies, the extent of the fishing activity in Norway is limited; in particular, it concerns landing control and control by inspectors on board vessels. The control work continuously reveals how the legislation is being circumvented and the laws and regulations being broken. I'll give you some examples. Less valuable fish or fish are dumped under minimum conditions during fishing. Illegal gear is used and fishing in closed areas according to species or sizes to be protected. Catches are reported from areas other than where they are fished and fish change their name, weight or length. When landing in cooperation between the fisherman and the purchaser, the wrong quantity is recorded. Instruments have been identified as having been manipulated and all catches have been avoided from organised turnover and resource control. Irregularities are committed both at sea and on land. And there are many cases of organised cooperation between fishermen, buyers, exporters and carriers of offences that undermine a sound resource extraction. In addition to conflicting with rules to ensure biologically sound resource management, this is also financial crime. So the illegalities can take many forms. It is in the nature of the matter that it is impossible to have certain facts about sizes with regard to overfishing and other infringements of fisheries legislation. However, available information and the conclusions we can draw on this basis clearly indicate that the scope is unacceptable and that resource control needs to be strengthened both to ensure the resource base, to prevent financial crime and to correct the image of the fishing industry. In order to give a picture of the extent of fish jacks, I will take from what has been revealed in the resource control. The statistics of the Directorate of Fisheries show that the proportion of reactions, withdrawals, warnings and notifications, compared to controls, has been at a higher level in the late 1990s than in the mid-1990s, from three per cent to five to six per cent. The Directorate for Fisheries does not have precise figures for the extent of the various breaches of the rules, but assumes on the basis of available information that the extent of the quota jack may be in the range of 0-20 pst. of recorded catches, varying from fishing to fishing and over time. With an booked first-hand value of DKK 10 billion annually, this indicates a valuable amount of quota circumvention. It must be emphasised that there is a very high degree of uncertainty about the figures. However, I consider this to be a strong indication that there is a breach of the rules on an unacceptable scale. This illustrates the need for action – for a power cap. As I've been told, the Coast Guard prioritizes the presence in relation to known problem areas and thus places the emphasis on having a preventative effect. According to the Coast Guard’s feedback, the control of fishing and law enforcement is good where the Coast Guard is present. The number of serious infringements, i.e.: during the last 10 years, the notifying or yielding persons have been between two and three per cent of the number of inspections. However, in the last three years there has been a marked increase in the number of notifications of Norwegian vessels. The sales teams have not stated the extent of illegalities but conclude from the checks carried out that a number of infringements of the quota and by-catch rules are undoubtedly taking place. In addition, there are a number of rumors in the industry about different types of regulatory offences. These are mainly illegal discards of fish, rewriting on the final page of the species and size of fish, and reporting on catches from areas other than where the fish is caught. I will now provide information on the work that has already been carried out and the measures that have been taken. On 28 November 2000, I held a meeting on illegalities with representatives from all the relevant parts of the administration and all the major organisations in the industry. At the meeting there was broad agreement on the need for action and some key areas of action: Control efforts must be increased. The regulatory framework needs to be strengthened in some areas and simplified in others. Penalties and administrative responses to infringements need to be intensified. Police and prosecution authorities need to give increased priority to issues related to infringements of fisheries legislation. Business organisations must focus on awareness-raising among their members. These are measures I have followed up on several levels. Reaction to detected illegalities in fisheries is an important instrument alongside the control effort carried out. The Fisheries Directorate is therefore asked to use legal access to temporarily or permanently withdraw the right of a vessel to fish for acquisition or the right of a fish buyer to accept fish in the event of serious or repeated infringements of the fisheries legislation. As of today, two vessels and one holding are suspended for between 8 and 17 weeks for serious infringements of fisheries legislation. This has aroused strong reactions, but it is a reaction form I have great faith in. It sends clear and unambiguous signals to the individual and to the public that severe action will be taken against gross infringements. I consider this to be a strong prevention measure that will be continued. The Minister of Justice and I have focused on the decisive role of the police and prosecution authorities in ensuring that their efforts and priorities will have the desired effects. I put great emphasis on efficiency in the overall control work. This is not least important with regard to the time between infringement and reaction. The prosecution authority in Troms and Finnmark and in Rogaland, which together have overall responsibility for the follow-up of infringements of fisheries legislation, has followed this up with their political partners, stressing the need for shorter processing times and a uniform response pattern. I have asked the sales teams to strengthen their resource control and facilitate the publication of all landings. The transparency of landing information will act as a preventative measure. The herring sales team has already implemented this well in advance. Work is under way to formalise enhanced cooperation between the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard and the Sales Act both on the overall long-term and in daily tactical work. Satellite tracking of fishing vessels was initiated for Norwegian vessels from 1 July 2000. Satellite tracking is based on communication of data from fishing vessels to a reception centre in the Directorate of Fisheries via a satellite. In this way, the fishing authorities are given knowledge of the position, speed and course of the fishing vessel. Satellite tracking has been agreed with all nations having access to fishing in Norwegian waters. In January 2001, the Directorate for Fisheries opened a ‘tip phone’ for enquiries about industrial illegalities. This has aroused a number of negative reactions from several teams. Since the introduction it has been received approx. 40 enquiries that have been further worked on. Some of these have resulted in reports to the police. Right rules are not a fixed state. It is a process that also includes the operators in the industry. In this connection, in December 2000, I invited business organisations and business professionals to make proposals for regulatory simplification in an open letter. The aim is to have as simple a regulatory framework as possible which at the same time ensures the control of resources. All the proposers were invited to present the proposals for debate at a seminar held on 24 April in Bodø. The proposals for regulatory simplification are many, but more deal with measures other than simplification. Of the themes discussed in Bodø, I would like to mention by-catch rules, aggregate quotas and rules on the keeping of the fishing book and final notes. The legitimacy of the legislation by fishermen and better information on changed or new rules were also discussed. The Fisheries Directorate and representatives of the trade organisations will make concrete proposals to improve the regulatory environment in line with the conclusions of Bodø. The clear objectives of the government are a good and cost-effective resource control that ensures control of the resource take-off. It is important that we have a control and sanctioning system that reflects the fact that the cost of breaking the legislation exceeds any gain from such an activity. The legitimacy of regulations, other management measures and controls is essential for the industry to keep its activities within the framework set. Without fair and intelligible laws and regulations, good resource management will be unattainable. It is therefore important that all sectors of the industry both find regulation and control reasonable and have confidence that the other parts of the industry are also law-abiding. Therefore, increased effort needs to be made both at sea, in order to reduce discards of small fish, and on land, in order to deal with quota circumventions. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government will implement a number of further actions, in addition to all that has already been undertaken: We need to strengthen coordination between the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard and the Sales Act in order to take advantage of the advantages of individual units and to prevent overlapping activities. Formalised cooperation and planning mechanisms shall be established at central and operational level. We're going to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the technology for the most effective control. The exchange of information between the control bodies and other public bodies shall be strengthened. A joint data collection and analysis unit will be set up to assist current control units. We will develop an electronic reporting system from the operators in the fishing industry. We need to change the laws and regulations to facilitate better control. A legislative proposal will be put forward next week for the Stortinget in particular. stricter penalties in the Seawater Fisheries Act and the Raw Fish Act. In this way, I will further stress the seriousness of this type of illegality. Provision will be made for the weighing of catches landed for intermediate storage before final sale with registration on a landing note. The control competence of the Directorate of Fisheries on land will be extended to means of transport and other links not directly engaged in fishing or fishing. Norwegian vessels will be required to operate via a control point if the 62 N limit is crossed. The Code will be amended to ensure resource control of foreign catches landed directly in Norway or by Norwegian merchant vessels. The extended reporting obligation for catches will be introduced. All major vessels shall notify in advance of where and when the catch is to be delivered. We need to strengthen the Directorate of Fisheries so that the Directorate is able to carry out a control on the ground that has a real preventative effect. We need more landing control, and we need to focus more on document control in the companies. This means a significant strengthening of the control crew and, inter alia, of: special competence in auditing. We will propose to the Stortinget strengthening of the Fisheries Directorate's budget, so that the Directorate can be added to 30 new inspectorates' posts for landing and document control. Furthermore, there is a need for the Directorate-General for Fisheries to strengthen staffing related to satellite tracking, other information and analytical work with nine posts at the centre of the Directorate for Fisheries and ten posts at the regional offices. We can achieve something through reorganization, but the main contribution must be made through new employment. We shall maintain the efforts of the Coast Guard at the current level. In addition, the staff of the Directorate-General for Fisheries with inspectors on board fishing vessels will be increased from three to thirteen, inter alia. as part of the process of improving the efficiency of small fish regulation through the opening and closing of fields. To a greater extent, we need to focus sales teams' efforts on the processing of landing information for capture. This will be done on the basis of the significant amount of information and experience gained by the sales teams. We will require the sales laws to use withdrawn funds solely to strengthen resource control. We will investigate whether complementing the efforts of the Coast Guard and Fisheries Directorate by introducing an observer system on fishing vessels will improve control. I want to launch a project to see if, and, if necessary, how, this should be implemented. In the 2002 budget, the Government will propose the appropriations needed to implement these measures. Already in the revised budget for this year, proposals are being made for the measures that can be implemented immediately. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about what may be the most important thing about the control and reaction measures: the awareness-raising work in the industry. Unfortunately, experience has taught us that we need an effective control regime and strong sanctions to ensure good resource management. Nevertheless, the main efforts to achieve illegal discards and quota circumvention must, after all, be undertaken by the individual food business operator. I have great faith in the fishing industry. Similarly, there are serious illegalities committed in full for the fishing nation of Norway. Without the individual’s understanding of why it is important to have a controlled and orderly resource outsourcing – and then to act – we will not be able to overcome the illegalities. It is therefore only through a joint effort that the credibility of the fishing industry can be restored. We are in a positive and good dialogue with the organisations in the fishing industry on these issues, and I trust that the organisations on their side are working seriously and constructively towards their members. I began this presentation by pointing out that Norway is responsible for some of the world’s largest and most productive coastal and marine areas, and that with the vision of ‘Values from the sea – Norway’s future’ we have set ambitious targets for the national importance of fisheries and aquaculture in the future. In addition, it is ethically high-worthy to produce food. Modern behaviour has unfortunately made it necessary to repeat this. The Norwegian fishing industry has a unique starting point. But we can do this if we don't get along – governments, business organisations, businessmen and the community for the rest – we do well in our households of the sea. The sea, the coast, the fish and the other richnesses that the living marine environment provides us with enormous opportunities. That is why we need good resource management. That is why we need effective resource control. That is why we must have an active attitude to lawbreakers. This is why the promotion of an industry that works together in total to promote our common goals is very important. That's why we have to take a power cap now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e330	The President will propose that the Minister of Fisheries report be discussed at a later meeting — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e340	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e351	Today we are debating the media policy presentation that the Minister for Culture presented to us a week ago. The distribution is this year as good as it is about the NRK. The main reasons for this are that the public media policy debate in winter and spring has been largely about the NRC – the board, about the new broadcasting director, about content, about economics and about governance – but also because a big message about media policy will be presented to the whole field, including the whole area. follow-up to the Daily Press Committee. I hope that the idea of such a message will be well received here in the Chamber, and I hope that during the debate the Council of State will get some input into which area should be included in this message. I'll come back a little bit later. The Minister of Culture has been called for in more contexts when it comes to the NRC, perhaps especially when it comes to the issue of governance — freedom. During the year a lot has come into place. We have an outstanding government with which the owner is particularly content, and who likes to have the necessary trust in both the NRK, the owner and the community otherwise. We've also been assigned a new broadcasting director. I have good faith that the board has made a wise choice, and wish Bernander close with the work. It is a very important societal task for which he takes the lead – a responsibility for which the owner sets the framework and conditions at a superior level, a responsibility which requires an effective exploitation of the human and economic resources being consulted, and a responsibility for having the viewer, the listener and subsequently the reader in focus. If the broadcaster closes and all of his added to this, it will be of almost invaluable value to the Norwegian people, cork more or less. In its distribution, the Minister for Culture has provided a warm defence for the NRK as a licensed public broadcaster, both now and in the future. The starting point for the Government and Labour Party is that the media must be secured as much freedom as possible, but at the same time be governed to ensure freedom of expression and information, lack, quality and easy access. So freedom has to be balanced against other social considerations, which I've learned. Other such considerations may be to protect children and young people from adverse effects. So it's not like this that sometimes you can get the idea that NRK is completely free. Nor is it the case that the Minister of Culture, or we who are media politicians here on the Stortinget, should not be able to say anything about the form and content of the NRK, since the NRK is a limited liability company. On the contrary, on behalf of the licensors, we would have to have some clear objectives and guidelines for why and how we should spend $3 billion on radio and TV production. Nor can it be that we are the only ones in this country who can't know anything about the content of the NRK – what's good, what's bad, what should change – but there's a lot we shouldn't interfere with as owners of the NRK. The owner shall govern at the superior level and the editorial freedom must be at the bottom. A public debate on NRKs in particular and media policy in general is very important in a democracy. No one should reject such a discussion, for democracy requires not least an active and free exchange of views on media policy as well. Even I am a little freaked out about different programs the times I sat in the sofa hook and looked at them. We have more and more channels to choose from, Norwegian and foreign. I have to say this year, as I said last year, that I sometimes wonder what we have won this. I still think that the different channels are easy to copy, to run after the same interview items relate to the same issues, and to send programs and serials that are similar to each other more than they differ from each other. I hope that in the future there will be greater shortages in supply and hope that both the NRK and the other actors see this as a challenge. I have noticed that the Council of State sees that the investigations show a positive link between the quality and viewer uptake of the public broadcasters and the quality of the commercial broadcasters. I hope it's right, although it's not open to me. Do we need NRK, when we have so many sources of information and so many forums for exchange of views? Yes, absolutely, in my opinion. I agree with the Minister of Culture that we need as a non-commercial Norwegian alternative in this lack, which sometimes may appear to be an unwieldy youth, which is a major reflection of national culture and national characteristics. It may still be the case that in most cases NRK programs are discussed around Norwegian homes. Everyone has access to NRK, and many have great confidence in NRK. This legitimacy in the fact that many benefit from the offer is decisive for the NRK in the future. If the majority of listeners and viewers do not look at the NRK as a good alternative, there are only questions of time before there will be a requirement to cancel the licence. Of course, people don't want to pay for something they don't benefit from. But people don't expect the NRK to send something that everyone likes all the time, they expect a lack of wide and narrow programs, with new arrivals, reporters and entertainment, with the provision of all age groups and with regard to linguistic minorities – and within responsible frameworks. Parents, for example, wait. that it is safe for small children to watch children's TV on the NRK and that laws and regulations relating to pornography are respected. The Minister for Culture says that the NRK will continue to be licensed in the future. I wrote that down. She says'mainly', I want to say in all, essentially. Awareness of other funding and the ability to sell advertising should be careful to expand. In any case, as the Council of State says, it must be in a clearly defined area and for clear purposes. The NRK shall produce radio and television programmes, not finance them. Among other things, the Ministry will now, in close cooperation with the NRK, start work on defining and defining the public service mission more closely, thus clarifying the programme categories and services they will offer to the population and on the broadcasting surfaces. The distribution does not provide a definitive response to how the NRK will meet the digital world or its funding, but points to different options. It is certain that the NRK will need to be involved in this development and that the transition will entail additional costs. This is what I expect from the Council of State to come back to both in the headlines and in the forthcoming budgets. Speaking of control: It is a pity that the NRK has chosen to send most feature films and several children's programs only in the NRK2. I mentioned this in my article in last year's debate, without the problem being solved. This is contrary to the premise that NRK2 should be a download channel, and it is not over-control by the NRK to point this out. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is so clever at this point, and I have suggested that the board of directors of the NRK now go through this again and find a solution that is in line with the Storting's instructions. So to some of the questions that the statement doesn't answer, e.g. Press support, including follow-up of the daily press selection, and editorial responsibility, including editorial responsibility for the web newspapers and clarification of responsibilities for the websites, which I have been in the Question Time, and which it is quite important to clarify, as well as new concessions for radio channels and local TV, to mention something. I look forward to a broad review of media policy. I have been an election observer in several countries for the past few years, and have seen even more clearly the importance of democratic development for lack and freedom in the media sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e380	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, was in many places, not least when it came to the policy of the NRK. She also touched on this with the freedom of advertising, and I noted a slight nuance difference in view between the representative Ausdal Starrfelt and the Council of State. The Christian People's Party wants an advertisement-free NRK, and I think there's a broad consensus in Norway that we want to have a channel where we don't turn off or switch over on other channels when the advertisement comes and we want to be protected from the commercial impact this gives, and that we go far, very far, in defending the freedom of advertising. Then I have registered that the Council of State says in ‘all’ essentially, while the representative Ausdal Starrfelt says in ‘all, all’. I want to challenge the representative Ausdal Starrfeld on what it is in this. What is the difference between ‘mainly’ and ‘mainly’? It's not that long since we had a debate here in the Chamber on the ABM message, where the Workers' Party's fraction spent the whole debate fighting for a principle called the 'free principle', and then they stood on it completely. Here I think that you are not so concerned with principles that you are also crushed at the National Labour Party meeting as late as November, where you said that the NRK should be free of advertising. Then my question is: does the representative Ausdal Starrfelt think that the Council of State is moving beyond the programme of the Workers' Party, and where is this difference of hue that we have recorded between the representative Ausdal Starrfelt and the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e393	Three letters can make it possible to make up a line. I said "all, all". And it may turn out to be a little bit of a nuance in the vision between Minister of Culture Ellen Horn and me, but I don't think we'll find out until we make this concrete – when we're going to decide if we're going to open up to some limited possibilities, we'll find out if there's any difference between 'all' and 'all, all' essentially. I'm skeptical, and I'm, like the Minister of Culture, very busy that the NRK should not primarily be busy spending money, but using the money they get, in the best possible way for the community. It's clear it's the Workers' Party's program that's indebted. But then the Labour Party in some earlier times has said something about seeing if you can find other sources of income, and that's probably what the Council of State is thinking about. If NRK e.g. the production of films which the broadcaster of other countries wishes to purchase would not prevent them from selling them. So there may be other ways of getting income that won't weaken the quality of television or radio in Norway, but on the contrary, give income to increase quality. So I'm a little bit open to evaluate it, but I'm probably very skeptical and afraid that we'll get into a slide. If we have first opened up for something, it is sometimes easy to expand it further. But, as I said, whether you're disagreeable or not, I don't think we can figure out until this gets concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e400	This one's not working! [[button controlling the height of the intercom]] The representative of Ausdal Starrfeldt was concerned that the NRK2 would be a relief channel. The right voted against the creation of this relief channel in its time, but I still have to ask the question, when the Minister of Culture and the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt are concerned with two categories of programmes that must benefit everyone through the NRK1. Kids software, I think there's little discussion about it. What is a children’s programme is part of the public broadcaster’s clear mission. But when it comes to movies, I'm a little surprised. Sending American motion pictures has never been part of the core business of a public broadcaster. So my question to Ausdal Starrfelt is: Does the Workers' Party define American and other feature films as one of the main roles of a public broadcaster, as it's already become so important to move it over? I can also add in parentheses that NRK2 gets an ever better coverage, as soon as most people have access to the channel. The second question relates to who is most opposed to advertising in the NRK. I just want to remind you that there were two parties in this room that a few years ago voted against the introduction of advertising on Text-TV on the NRK, and that was Right and SV. It was because we wanted to keep the NRK free of advertising. We wanted the NRK to cover its business through its licence revenues. So it surprises me a little bit that the Workers' Party has suddenly taken a position that now you have to be very restrictive when you can download ring sounds and advertisements for your and your daughter from the Text TV pages on the NRK. Does Ausdal Starrfelt think it is a good thing that the principle of advertising was implemented on NRK Text TV, which is closely linked to the public broadcaster? Most people don't see the difference between Text-TV and ordinary TV when they're in the channel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e411	For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that the pulpit can be raised and lowered, but with significantly less noise than before. It's encouraged to test this out at the next article!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e414	I also wondered about this work, but it did! [[speaks]] Yes, feature movies can be nuclear. And even if it wasn't, it has a lot to do with legitimacy. And that's what I think the Council of State is putting a lot of emphasis on in its calculation. We have to make sure that people are content with what the NRK is sending. Currently, there's not a full coverage for NRK2, and there's something a lot of people like to see, it's a movie. Then, in addition to thinking that movies may be part of the core business, we need to add weight. When there is restrictiveness in relation to advertising or other revenues of the NRK, I was not in the previous round where Text-TV was treated. But I have a view that we have to decide on the matter, and my starting point is that I want to be restrictive. I don't think I want to say more than that. When new issues arise, new questions relate to this, we will be able to discuss it. Then I'll be there to discuss it. But I have a restrictive view. I mean, one of the main qualities of the NRK is that it's unadvertised. We found a practical solution when there was a gallant sponsorship income in the previous round, and in parallel with having a restrictive view, I have a pragmatic view of this. We'll have to take a case when they get here. And then I don't want to go over this with Text-TV now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e423	Many people feel that it is unfair to pay a licence that increases for each year without feeling that the NRK is more used than before – rather the opposite. TV 2, TVNorway, TV3 and other channels get an ever-increasing share of the audience's favor. A rather poor coverage of the NRK2 also applies as an unfair moment. Does the Workers' Party see a thank you for how large the compulsory licence should be for each of us? As the Labour Party representative is sure to know, the Progress Party wishes to gradually reduce the licence and replace it with other sources of income and improve its efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e428	For the Progress Party, most of the taxes and taxes imposed are unfair. We don't think so. We think license is a good way to fund a public broadcaster. It's not Norwegian in particular either. I haven't seen any number that the license money has actually increased more than the price rise otherwise – so I don't know that. I have no experience that what you pay yourself has been relatively expensive than other things. Whether there should be a roof — it should be relative. The working party has not assessed whether we should set a percentage or a percentage limit on how high it can get. That's what we're going to do after quarter. So talk about the Progress Party and others as if everything else were free. There's a lot of things that we see on television that cost money. Either it costs – for some of us – irritation in the form of many interruptions with lots of advertising, and/or it costs money to get it installed, in the form of cables, in the form of antennas osb. So it's not like everything else is free. It's not like that, as far as I've discovered, even though I'm not a big TV viewer who spends most of my time on it, that the NRK is the most expensive – at least not if we see it in terms of width, amount and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e439	The Minister of Culture chose this time to concentrate his media policy statement on the NRC, focusing on the future economic situation of the NRK. In view of the strong focus that has been on the NRC in particular in the last six months, it was both expected and necessary that the NRK's economy was now explained. That the Council of State thus also chose to leave it with it, and let the report of the other media policy pass on to a later communication, we take note. On the other hand, there is reason to wonder that the Council of State first celebrates its full account of the NRC’s economy, yet it does not answer the most important question, namely how to secure the NRC financially in a new and demanding media reality. This will be clarified first in a forthcoming enlargement report and in the annual budgets. This is about the basis of the entire digital strategy of the NRK. Similarly, the Council of State announces the start of work to delineate and define the public broadcasting mission. It's positive, and it's also understandable that this takes time. But when you push all the most important questions in front of you, and at the same time give a thorough review of the status of the entire media field in a big message already until the fall, it does not really make the debate today less interesting than it could have been. Nevertheless, in the name of justice, let me say that the Council of State, in its presentation, gave some clarifications that are also essential for the Christian People's Party. Although that may seem obvious to some, we are pleased that the Government will continue to invest in the NRK as an advertisement-free public broadcaster that can provide the population with free and independent information, and not least that it sees this as just as important after the transition to digital technology as before. The Christian People's Party also supports the Government's desire to maintain the licence funding. It is true that the licence depends to some extent on the legitimacy and position of the NRK. If the NRC loses terrain in relation to other companies, the licence also weakens its entitlement. But it cannot be that legitimacy is measured solely by means of viewing and listening frequencies. I think most people will be willing to pay to keep a serious and independent institution like the NRK, even though it doesn't even top most statistics. Quality is as important as quantity. I agree with the Council of State that the NRK does not need to be the largest, but that it is important that the company embraces far, and that the opening up of its overall offer is great. At the same time, I don't think it's a solution to shift the funding of the NRK over to the state budget. Someone's made it up to you. This also means financing through taxpayers' money, and it will also mean that the Ministry of Culture's budget has to be doubled in relation to what it is today, in order to finance the NRC. I think you can just forget that. The Council of State states that the NRK shall be free of advertising — yes, as she says, ‘mainly’, the NRK shall be an unadvertised alternative. At the same time, she opens a door to sports so that advertising can be financed. That's when I wonder if the Council of State entirely believes what she says. When she has to repeat ‘mainly’ a number of times in the statement, I ask if it really is important to convince herself. At the same time, it sounds a little strange when it is said that ‘some people have raised the issue of sports advertising funding’. I've been wondering who this'some' is. Could it be state councillor Ellen Horn himself? Or maybe her State Secretary Roger Ingebrichtsen? Because in a look-up in Today's Business earlier this winter, it says that the Minister of Culture considers giving the NRK permission to finance expensive sports rights with advertising. State Secretary Ingebrichsen confirms in the interview in the same announcement that one of the ideas now being explored is to have the NRK send out advertisements in connection with international sporting events. If this is going to be serious, I am seriously afraid that you are going on a dangerous glide scale, as the representative Ausdal Starrfelt has just underlined in a line. Therefore, it is a reassuring signal that the Council of State now says this is only relevant after the government has discussed the issue. It is a little surprising, however, that this will be launched only a short time after the Workers’ Party decided at its national meeting that the ‘NRC will also be free of advertising in the future’. I do not know how obligatory such national meetings are for the Council of State, but they cannot be completely irrelevant. Nevertheless, there is reason to commend the Minister for her clear clarification to the NRC on the need for better financial management. This obviously hasn't worked well enough. The need to improve financial transparency, control and transparency are the requirements of the Council of State. We agree. People need to know what the money's going to, and they don't want to spend it on a product they don't get. Therefore, the criticism of the profile given to the NRK2 channel is entirely justified. I am fully in line with the Council of State when she tightens the requirements that were laid down when this channel was created, namely that it should be a relief channel. If the Editorial Association were to fall heavily to the chest that the owner finds reason to recall the agreed assumptions on which the channel was established, it would be more like a mandatory ritual than a timely warning. Of course, this is not about editorial freedom. And we're also going to know to watch that. But when the NRK2 channel is launched, we do not get past the fact that it has aroused a district uprising that this channel has been gradually transformed into an independent channel that the inhabitants of many districts cannot enter without having to acquire a precious satellite antenna. At the same time, when we find that the same citizens also do not get a share in the entire radio service that people in more central areas get, we understand that they are responding. In fact, only P1 is well distributed throughout the country. Comparing this with the obvious refusal of the NRK itself has shown in meeting the Stortinge’s assumption of expanding district television in Eastfold and Northland, it leaves the impression that the institution is more concerned with satisfying people in areas with high population density. Well, that's where the majority of NRK employees live, and that's where the other media services are well-developed. A media policy that thus contributes to strengthening centralization, we are not served, and the Christian People's Party sees it as an important task to change this. There is no doubt that the NRC – because of its lack of sensitivity to the expectations of people outside the country – has itself contributed to putting the licence under pressure. Nor is it possible to deny that with the increases that have taken place, and which affect them primarily with the weakest economy, minimum pensioners, disabled persons, insured persons, students, etc., the licence has reached a level that should not be raised by the first. Once again, the challenge of using the revenues they have will be more effective. It has been pointed out by various teams outside the NRC that it should be fully possible to operate a general broadcasting programme at a qualitatively high level in Norway, with a fixed income of more than DKK 3 billion per year. We agree with that, and that challenge must be the NRK's willingness to take. With regard to the possibility of adding additional resources to the NRC to implement digital development, we are not prepared to make any promises about this either now. As long as this is to be further assessed and presented as a separate case, we will have to wait for this. Finally, I would like to say that we would have liked the Minister of Culture to have gone a little further into the cultural policy aspects of media policy in his presentation. We missed not only a discussion of the responsibility of the NRK as a public broadcaster for the entire population, we also missed something about the role of the radio in a highly visualising reality. Broadcasting is more than television. The provision of children and young people and the awareness of how media content contributes to shaping their reality and creating attitudes were well underlined. On the other hand, the important role of the media was not dealt with in an over-commercialised time, nor was the multicultural context in which we now live more and more. We also missed something about the follow-up to what has been said in the past about a broader presentation of art and culture on television, as well as the relationship to faith and view of life. But I also understand that not everything can take place within a brief explanation. However, without compromising media independence and editorial freedom, it must be appropriate to discuss the more substantive and valuable aspects of media policy and not to allow it solely to be about systems and physical framework conditions. In our opinion, if we fail to address these issues to debate, we are strongly neglected as politicians. We therefore look forward to the notified notification of the entire media field and hope that these important elements will be discussed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e474	It may seem that the representative Ola T. Lånke has forgotten that he himself, now in the spring part, demanded a statement on the situation of the NRK. It's possible that's because he demanded it in the media, because he spent a lot of time pointing out that there's going to be a little bit of an interesting debate when we're just going to discuss the NRK and let it go with it. I don't understand how we're going to get the voters to remember for more than one month, when we can't even get the big ones, from the Christian People's Party, to do that – so they forget their demands so quickly. Media spending is a phenomenon introduced by the central government, and the Labour Party in its time was skeptical because we thought the procedure in the Stortingeten makes presentations a poor basis for making concrete decisions. That is why the Workers' Party has now announced that we would like to have its own big message on this, which will provide the Stortinget with a basis for making proper and solid decisions. Since the representative Lånke called for more concrete proposals in connection with the media act, it could be good to hear if the Christian People's Party really thinks that a statement is appropriate as a basis for the Storting to make the kind of investigations and make concrete decisions on the order of magnitude that is being discussed here. Otherwise, the representative spent some time polishing when it was advertising and the NRK. He has obviously read the Workers' Party's program. I'm sorry, I haven't bothered to read the Christian People's Party program – on the other hand, it may not be so important, either. He called for clear distinctions between advertising/not advertising. It is true that, with the support of the Christian People's Party, we have actually drawn up the clear lines and established that television should not be funded for advertising, but that, in terms of the services offered by the media company, the media house, the NRK, via other channels, such as: the network and text TV, have opened up advertising funding opportunities. Has the representative of the Christian People’s Party forgotten that he was in support of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e485	The representative Alstad is trying to wake me up from an alleged oblivion, which I do not fully understand the need for. I am aware that I have asked for a statement about the NRK – I said well in my post that it was necessary for it to come. What I've been squeezing about was that you're pushing a lot of essential questions in that context and taking up the more predictable aspects of the NRK's situation. It is a choice that I have taken note of in this respect. When we then move on to discuss the appropriateness of these kinds of statements that we are debating today, I have to say that such statements are, I suppose, something that everyone has seen as a sort of trial arrangement. To a large extent, I think they have acted on the basis of the purpose we had with them, but I see clearly, as we now face large, complex areas of action – for example. The economy of the NRK, on which there has been a lot of focus, and at least the whole media field as such – that there is also a need for a broader review, a larger document, between. I have not taken my position as to whether I will oppose continuing to make presentations. I still think they have a place – in defined areas – but I see now that we are going to have a thorough debate on the media field, it is necessary to get a bigger case on it. I don't mind. I may also miss presentations in even more areas, but it's a matter of time if we reach all over this house. So there was a question of whether I forgot that there was an agreement to open up commercial funding in restricted areas. I haven't forgotten either. We did so knowingly and willfully. We put in very clear leads, which we agreed on – and this is how I have not considered it a TV advertisement. But when the state council also opens up advertising for sports broadcasts on the screen, in ordinary photo broadcasts, I think it is something else. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] That was basically what was my concern....
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e496	The President makes it clear that "all, all" time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e499	The representative Lånker was very concerned that we should not neglect being politicians. I agree. I also agreed with the Christian People's Party that we had to have a proper presentation when it came to the NRK – the Progress Party actually promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on this at an earlier date. But what's the difference here is that the Progress Party has at least "faced" itself. We've actually presented a 10-point plan for the future to the NRK. It is here that the representative Lånke and the Christian People's Party are neglecting themselves as politicians, because they have not put forward a single point, one option for future to the NRK! It's okay to ‘see’ a whole lot about what's going to happen in the future, but we've known about the situation in the NRK for a long, long time. That's where I want to challenge Loan: Can't even the Christian People's Party "see" something about the NRK in the future? Will the Christian People's Party contribute 3-5 billion dollars to the NRK's digital investment? Because I notice that the Christian People's Party also wants to keep and increase the license in the future because there is a need for NOK 3 billion – at least – to maintain the quality of the NRK. Then what I'm also asking for is what was Loan's claims in his posts, that one has been ahead and clarified strict financial management in the NRK. I am calling for the Christian People's Party's thoughts around the NRK in the future. Then neither can the Christian People's Party expect anything from the Government other than that there will be a message for the autumn, when they do not want to take any stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e510	The representative Sandberg touched on several aspects of my post and claims that we are neglecting when we have not seen the economic situation of the NRK and presented a wide range of points on how to solve these, and that is correct. I think it's a little bit about the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party having a slightly different form of work in Stortinget. We regard NRK's role and mission as very serious, while it's also an independent company in relation to Stortinget. The NRK itself has to very much dispose of its resources and make the necessary plans for financial management, control, etc. I don't think it would be right for us to ‘see’ about these things without getting a thorough explanation of what problems we are facing. It is not a political exercise to ‘see’ serious issues like this. I think that here lies the difference between the way in which the Advance Party and many of the other parties work in relation to the Storting. It's the government's job to present cases to the Storting in a properly and thoroughly worked-out way, and then we're going to take a decision on them. That's why we also agree that it is now being explained to the economy by the Government. In addition, the representative Sandberg was aware that the Christian People's Party would be involved in funding for digitisation. We didn't say that. On the contrary, I said that we would not take a decision on this now. We would wait for that to be explained. Nor is it right, as the representative Sandberg claims, that we want to increase the licence. On the contrary, I said that we had probably reached a limit now that we should not, with the first, increase the license. But we want to keep it, because we think that's the only way to fund the public broadcaster in Norway, like in a lot of other countries that it's natural to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e519	The representative Borrower was concerned about the NRK's economy. Today, the SV submits a proposal, which we also had in the budget last year, that the NRK should be equal to the newspapers in relation to VAT – zero rate on VAT and deduction for input tax. It will not help the NRK over cracks in relation to digitisation and the costs required there, but it would at least help the NRK a bit on the road. That would be NRK 80-120 million. kr extra per. years. I just want to challenge the representative to give his opinion on such a proposal. So to an even larger and more principled proposal. I wonder if Mr Lånke's representative was as surprised as I was that the Minister for Culture spoke so far about TV 2, NRK and Telenor, but did not give his view on it. It could be a portal company, it could also be a digital ground network. Based on the Minister of Culture's presentation, it looks like it could also be a portal company. It raises some important questions of principle. It raises the issue of vertical integration and then of diversity, and raises the question of who it is that should be able to control the portals, which in the future will also be able to develop into electronic programme guides. Clearly, controlling as limited resources as an electronic programme guide will provide very great power, also to be able to withstand what could be competitors, for example. local TV, which I know the representative Lånk is very busy. Would Loan agree that there must be an indispensable requirement if the NRK is to enter a portal company, that the portal – the EPG – should be open to local TV, to non-commercial websites, which in the future can broadcast and protect the universal rights of the network?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e528	The representative of Ågot Valle dealt with a number of slightly complicated questions in connection with the transition to a digitised reality. But at first she was also in a proposal to give zero VAT rates combined with the right to deduct input tax for the NRK. It is a proposal that has come up on the table today, and we will of course consider that. I think it is also within what will be natural to be assessed in connection with the forthcoming review that the Council of State has announced. I don't think it will be relevant for us to go on it today, but keep it under assessment and look at it more closely when we see the whole. With regard to the negotiations that have been conducted and that are certainly conducted, between NRK, TV 2 and Telenor on the future digital establishment, we are very little informed about how they are happening. So far, it's hard for us to really have a legitimate opinion about it – and whether we should have it, too. We must probably leave this to the negotiating parties to cancel. But I agree with the representative, Valle, that there are many questions related to this. I have also followed and seen a little what is said about it, but I think it is said very little in the meantime, and therefore it is not so easy to say so much about it either. However, it is clear that the vertical integration referred to by the representative should be of concern to us, and I am also concerned that distribution companies are not too much allowed to dominate programme production and in a way to deal with the whole vertical line. That the local media have to get their place in this, I am a hot champion for, and there must be a portal where they also have the opportunity to send. It also applies to television and radio, in the field concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e537	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e541	Now there was a good president! [[with the Chair,]] The Minister of Culture's media act was, in effect, a NRK statement. I'm not going to criticize the Council of State for so unilaterally focusing on a review of the status of the NRK. It was necessary after the last year's turbulence and, as has been mentioned, several have asked for that type of review. However, I hope that the Council of State in its statement later in the debate will also address other issues, possibly commenting on the input that comes into this article and others. The right is dependent on Norway having strong public broadcasters capable of communicating Norwegian languages and culture. It is becoming increasingly important at a time when new foreign niche channels are emerging. The switch to digital TV is in full swing for those who have satellites and cable. It is therefore important to have a conscious strategy for the role of the NRC in this development. Governments see no law of nature that links the licence to analogue broadcasting. I also see no such law of nature, but the Council of State also stresses that the licence must have legitimacy. That is what will be interesting in a future digital channel universe. Would the viewers, all of whom have access to a dozen channels, be prepared to pay the license for the NRK? This is at least worth problematizing, and I expect that it will be done in the notified Storing Message. As regards the editorial comments of the Council of State on the NRK1 and NRK2 programme form, it may be possible to get the impression that the Council of State wants to manage the programme activities. In my opinion, feature films, American and others, have never been part of the core business of a public broadcaster, so I'm surprised that the Council of State is particularly concerned about this. The NRK2 was supposed to be a relief channel, and has largely proved to be so, but as long as not everyone gets in the channel, there will be reactions from those who do not get in the offer. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State is now signaling the concession to expand a digital network. The right subscribes to the wish of the Council of State that such a development should take place as quickly as possible, while at the same time a concession award focusses on the network becoming a nationwide network. As long as this ground-based network, in combination with other broadcasting platforms, is to disseminate public broadcasting programmes and replace today's analogue broadcasting networks, it must be assumed that it is approximately 100 pst. coverage before switching off the old analogue transmitters. I see in the State Council's statement that she says that the ‘majority’ of the population should have access to digital TV before a switch off the analogue network. I would like a definition of the ‘majority’, because I expect that the small ripples we've had in the coverage of NRK2 will be like fluke breeze to calculate if one knocks off NRK's main transmitter when – let's say – 60 pst. has digital TV. I don't think so. The shorter the parallel end time, the less the cost of double distribution will be, so a rapid expansion is necessary. The NRK has presented its estimates of the cost of digitisation. It is unrealistic if the NRK expects the Storting to cover all of this bill, which I believe is written with fork, but the Right is not alien to the fact that the costs of double distribution can be met in an extraordinary way. I look forward to the announced growth report and expect the department to carry out a thorough analysis of what expenses it would be natural to cover. With licence revenue of more than DKK 3 billion, or as much as is granted for cultural purposes under the State budget, I believe that the NRK has to set annual amounts within its own budgets to cover the costs of digitisation. In connection with the alerted notification, it is natural to have a review, which I have previously asked for. What kind of minimum offer should everyone receive when using the digital groundnet? It is obvious that the general channels have to be included, as is the case with other Norwegian-language channels. What is positive and gratifying is that, in its statement, the Council of State announced that digital television should be introduced to new broadcasters wishing to operate nationwide broadcasts. This will increase competition, while at the same time making the concession to broadcast nationwide advertising-funded television, the TV 2 concession, almost worthless. A strategy for addressing this challenge should therefore be put in place. The concession notice for the TV2 concession extends to seven years from 2002. I hope this will not restrict the possibility of rapidly expanding digital television. When I first talk about TV 2: It is positive that the new concession has now been announced, and that the auction principle was rejected. Instead, hopefully a competition based on quality and content is now in place and is determined in a fair manner. In the new concession notice, I am not aware of any restrictions on ownership. The current TV 2 concession states that no one can own more than 33.3 pst. Right will support removing this constraint and preferably immediately. Schibsted has announced that they consider selling their shares, but has also signaled that it would be more interesting to remain on the owner’s side if the 33,3 p.m. rule was repealed. So you can ask yourself, ‘What would be the most useful thing to do — a strong Norwegian owner, or two foreign owners who control the company?’ It is very likely that the alternative is if Schibsted sells out his mail, or possibly a network company – such as Norwegian – enters the owner’s page. The right is skeptical as to whether ownership law and ownership supervision have any function in a media landscape characterized by strong international groupings. We also need strong Norwegian owners, and it seems to me that the Ownership Authority is most concerned about stabbing small local viewers who want strong owners. No, let competition law also work in this area. In connection with the announcement, I would like to ask the department to look at the local television station in today's and tomorrow's TV landscape. What will be the place in the digital multiplexes, what will be the place on the electronic programme guides, and what will happen if the ownership conditions in TVNorway change and the local television distribution agreement is dropped? I think it's important that we have a network of local television stations that are increasingly communicating local news, sports and culture. There has been a hard time for them for many years, but it now seems that some of the stations are starting to run with profits. Although the last year has been an economic downturn for the most technology-optimistic, with the fall in the stock exchange on IT and telecom shares, progresses further. Convergence is getting closer and closer, and the integration of different media continues with undiminished strength. Radio digitisation has been slower than expected, but there is still an interest in new concessions for nationwide digital radio. I expect the ministry to have the same radio attitude as the Council of State signaled in relation to TV, and that when it comes to the digital broadcasting platform, more concessions should be given to operate nationwide radio. I also want to pay tribute to the advertising-funded public broadcasting radio we have today, namely P4. They have long been criticized for too little effort on Norwegian music and for taking the concession obligations too little seriously. P4 has taken this challenge and is now sending much more Norwegian music, while in other concessional areas they take their responsibilities seriously. That's good, and shows a conscious attitude and policy of editorial management. The EU has recently adopted a large copyright directive which will also be important for Norway. It is often easy to forget that all the new channels have to be filled with content – content that is copyright. These are copyrights that with new storage media are becoming increasingly subject to copying. I now hope that you will soon cut through the battle between the Fund for Performing Artists and GRAMO, and that you will recognize that the fight of GRAMO is about demanding your own money. It is an important job fund for performers do, but in my opinion the job should be limited to an award organisation that benefits Norwegian artists and artists, not, as today, to be an recruitment organisation. The matter has now been raised out of the hands of the Council of State, and I expect a quick solution in line with the great majority last year. Media policy faces major and exciting challenges. Our job as politicians is to get involved in development without letting us blind ourselves to all new opportunities. The role of the public sector will be regulated in terms of technology, and the contribution of a small language society to the challenges of cultural policy facing the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e578	I agree with Trond Helleland that it is important in the future to have a strong public broadcaster in relation to both Norwegian language and culture, and that we need a strong NRK. The NRK2 should be a download channel, and there has been a bit of debate about what things are sent in the different channels. Trond Helleland asked questions about what is going to be the NRK’s public broadcaster, i.e. what to send in relation to NRK2. Does Trond Helleland think that Stortinget should not give a signal in relation to NRK2 as a download channel for NRK, and that the NRK itself should be able to assess it on an entirely free basis? We know that the costs of digitisation are ahead of us, and the representative of Greece said that the NRK should spend money annually on this in its budget. It might be a way to do it, but it might be interesting to know whether the representative of Greece and Right thinks that the NRK should be involved in and set all the costs of developing this within its budget. I agree that it is good that we have been given a new concession in relation to TV 2 and hope that we can get a quick clarification on it. The NRK has benefited from the competition that has taken place, among others. from TV 2, and it is of course important that they still have some competition in the future. There is reason, as the representative of Greece was in it, to give P4 honor, but when it becomes relevant to renewing and applying for a new concession, is Right interested in imposing a concession fee on P4? From the Christian People's Party's side, we have vented that thought, and believe that, among other things. Should be able to go to local media. It may not be right in agreement, but are they interested in assessing a concession fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e589	The representative of Molvær Grimstad was concerned about this with the public broadcasting role, and I am also concerned about it. I think it's important that it's the generalcasters who even largely develop editorial policy, and that we, as politicians, provide broad guidelines. And I can never imagine that Stortinget has said that feature films are part of the public broadcasting mission. What I think Stortinget has been concerned about are Norwegian-language programmes, children's programmes, minority programmes, etc. There I think we're completely in line, but I'm surprised that the Council of State, when there's been some reader letters in the newspapers and some enquiries to the Stortinget and the Government, is so easily tying to the simplest instrument, that's to say that here the NRK has to do something else. What I also wonder about is how the NRK, if they're going to follow this up, will be able to send all those feature films. They had a Monday movie before. After they got NRK2 and added the feature films to that channel, they have movies almost every day. And that's why people react. So my advice is to really get the digitization and expansion of NRK2 started as soon as possible, rather than having to go back on the transmission form that NRK1 has now established, which turns out to be a success measured against other channels. It's hard to put feature films into the programming surfaces. But this is the editor's responsibility to assess. In terms of digitization, I said, unlike the Christian People's Party, actually a little bit about what the Right was willing to be on. The Christian People's Party would just wait and come back. I said that the right is willing to participate in discussing the extraordinary cost of the parallel broadcasting of digital and analogue TV. I think that might be a reasonable matter for Stortingen to consider. As regards the concession fee for P4, I will wait for it. It's not sure that P4 is going to have the new concession either. We don't know that. It may also be that digitisation has come so far that there will be more concessions being announced. A digital nationwide radio concession has already been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e600	Over the 1990s, the size has ranged from playing editors on the content to becoming much more professional in dealing with our different institutions. As far as I remember, the most recent feature in the main hall that interfered with the editorial coverage was held during a media policy discussion of the Right-Own Media Policy spokesman on election coverage in Israel, in 1994 or 1995. It's good to see there's some development in the right as well. It might also be nice to remind each other that NRK2 has a resolution of 2 pst. in spite of the fact that they all, most of them now accept those signals, so it is quite obvious that there is no popular requirement to have access to the programs, but of course we have a responsibility to try to meet the few who, after all, will have the channel. The right would, as you know, not be able to get this offer, but it may have changed as well. I have understood that the Right now wants an expansion of the digital ground plane. It's not an obvious position, but in my view it's a reasonable position. But then in today's debate I got the impression that the Right wants a much narrower NRK to stay away from, for example. the American films, used as an example by the Right in the best left-wing radical tradition. For us in the Workers' Party, it is quite obvious that it is also part of the public broadcasting mission to offer in those areas as well, and get sent out wide programmes that people are interested in and that people will see. If the Right could have explained to us in plain text a little bit more about what they put into this public broadcasting concept, it would have been a pleasure to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e614	The last question, if I want to define the general programming concept, I've answered before. I don't want to. I want the NRK to do that very much myself. That Stortinget can have general debates is okay. Otherwise, I perceived the first part of Alstad's line as a direct connection to my position in terms of the fact that NRK2 is not a wide channel that reaches so far out. When there is no popular requirement, it suggests that there is no need to make a big grab either. As far as the American feature films are concerned, I have a great sense of them and I like to see them on a huge number of channels that you get in for free, without paying a license. That's what it says. Is there something that is enough on Norwegian TV today – and then I'm talking about those who have a parabola or cable, and it's almost over 70 pst. by the population — there is an offer on film. I would like to have good feature films on both NRK1 and NRK2, but I didn't fully understand the point of raising it to a major point in the media policy statement. With regard to other issues that Alstad raised, it may be that the electoral campaign coverage from Israel has improved since 1994, and that there has therefore been no debate on it. That is not normal, and I do not want the Storting to have any debate on programme content. That's not our problem. Moreover, there has been a major change since 1994/1995. The NRK has become a share company. It's also important to remember, because sometimes both I and others forget when we give an opinion on media policy issues. I think the world is moving forward, and I hope that the NRK will be able to evolve in a good way. We do not want a narrow NRK, on the contrary. We want a broad, popular, good NRK that is funded by license, until you might have to consider other ways to finance it. But it is important for the Right to stress that a wide free advertising channel is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e623	I want to challenge Greece on a very popular concept that I have heard he has used twice, but first I have to say that it is very interesting to hear Greece talk about media policy. I am largely and largely on the way to agree, and I must say that he has put himself well into it, in the sense that there are many terms. But the representative uses the term fork. He used forks in this context, and I've heard it before, it's written with forks. I have understood that it is really a matter of having many large numbers presented in the media for the costs of digitisation. I think it's handled in a sensible way by the Minister of Culture when you've chosen to challenge the NRK to clarify what this is about, that it's therefore a sensible process going on, and that it's not wise for big numbers to comment on in time and out of time from actors in this image. That's the one. The second is the reasoning related to the feature films and the NRK2. I think it was highly justified that the Minister of Culture took up that relationship. It's not that it's the feature films in themselves that necessarily give this legitimacy, although I think people need it, but it's so annoying for people who don't take in the NRK2, to get this advertisement for the feature film, the NRK2, in NRK1. Nor is it true that all parts of the country have a cable. Of course, most people can have satellite antennas, but there are some people in the districts who are hit by the same thing, and who have a legitimate right to bring with them an offer that also includes feature films.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e630	I'm sure NRK's representatives, either at the PC screen, where they're listening, or at the diplomat lodge, will notice all the good performances compared to what people are annoyed about in the NRK2 and the marketing of films. The first thing that Enger Lahnstein was about was the concept of writing bills with forks. Then there would be a few more digits, and my point has been that I don't take the numbers from the NRK for good fish. I understand that this is actually the exact same Minister of Culture saying in a slightly more diplomatic and proper way, namely that the NRK's number is not necessarily the fasit. They need to be carefully examined, they need to be looked at, and the ways in which this is to be financed need to be assessed. I want to repeat that when the NRK now has these very large license receipts and still cannot get the skin trap to stretch, it's probably a signal that there's – and I think most people in this room have a sense of – the need for reorganization, rationalization in the NRK, and it's necessary to think about something new. I think it was quite illustrative that when the case concerning the possible sale of the ‘White House’ on Marienlys came up, there became a ramaskrik, especially from some older employees, because here was the culture in the walls, etc. I'm sure that's right. But if you could free a billion or two by moving into modern, temporal rooms, it's the type of grip NRK actually has to evaluate. That is why I have not rejected it either. I have no emotional relationship with Marienlyst. I think it's a nice environment they're in. But if they could save a lot of money on it, then why not? The NRK shall produce television and radio programmes for the Norwegian people, not primarily as a storage facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e642	The NRK shall be free of advertising and licensedly funded, the Minister of Culture Ellen Horn stated in his media policy statement in the Stortinget a few days ago, that the NRK shall be an independent public broadcasting service in the future Channel Jungle. This may sound correct, but the Progress Party does not agree. No matter who, you can ask yourself. The Progress Party believes that a media channel such as the NRK is not necessarily independent when one is dependent on a political majority to just get its income. The favor of the political majority is important precisely in order to obtain a suitable source of income in order to operate the NRC’s activities. The NRK is a large enterprise with over 3,500 employees divided into 17 district offices, Sami Radio and the main bases Marianlyst and Tyholt. The required NRK licence for 2001 will amount to 3 010 million. kr, which means a licence of 1715 kr per. license payments – I recall that the Progress Party had a lower proposal that unfortunately did not receive a majority – a sum that has increased over many years, and that will probably continue to increase in the future, especially with the challenges of digital development facing the NRC. In addition to the licence funding, the NRK also has a small income from sponsorship, a sponsorship that for many others is not so different from advertising. As everyone knows, the NRK is now inside a, if not difficult, challenging situation that requires action and conversion from both owners, i.e. State, government, management and employees. This process can be very painful if measures that adapt the enterprise to the new and changing framework conditions in the media sector are not put in place reasonably soon. Recent circumstances may indicate that in the NRC there is not the necessary crisis understanding that should have taken into account the challenges facing the enterprise. There is reason to believe that the situation in the NRC will have a significant impact on the news picture in the future. It is therefore important that we have a clear view of how we think the NRK should develop. The NRK is probably the company that is best known in Norway, and it is a company that many people want to think about. The NRK is struggling with a very heavy organization that requires a lot of resources. The NRK has therefore had financial problems in recent years, which has led to a deficit in the company that has had to be covered by cuts in the organisation. There is reason to believe that this situation will further intensify in the time to come. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the NRC must become more economically oriented and that this must control the NRC's further work more than today. The NRK is currently operating on a competitive market, with competition from TV 2, TV Norway, TV3 and foreign operators. It is not natural for viewers to choose NRK in the future when watching TV. The question here is whether it will have consequences for the NRK, among others. with regard to the television licence and whether the owner should look at the NRK from a more commercial point of view. Should it be possible to open up advertising in whole or in part in the NRK, and then by gradually removing the television license? Yes, the Progress Party believes, both to strengthen the NRK and to ensure that people don't have to pay for a product they don't feel like they're getting 100 pst. again for. This is due, inter alia, to: that many do not gain NRK2, which has recently gained a greater role. For example, the Monday film and many children’s programs have moved from NRK1 to NRK2. When you can also share a football match between these two channels, yes then the desire is full too many. The Progress Party believes that the coverage of NRK2 is too low for the NRK to be able to break up the programme offer as they do today. About 15 pst. Norway’s population does not currently receive NRK2, and this also varies greatly from part of the country to part of the country. For example, Nordland only has a coverage of 74 pst. What is then extra sin is that those who are hit are those who otherwise have poor coverage of the media. Here I refer to a previous proposal that those who do not receive the NRK2 should be refused the licence. Unfortunately, this majority was not given in the hall. In today's tough television market, it is also necessary for the NRC to cooperate with commercial operators in some areas. An example of this is that it has now become known that the NRK, TV 2 and Telenor are talking about closer cooperation primarily in the development of a digital network for the transmission of television signals. Where appropriate, the NRK may also cooperate with, for example: TV 2 on a common Norwegian sports channel? Such a solution has been discussed in the past. The condition then was that such a channel should be advertised, possibly as a pay-TV. In the media sector today, there is a very rapid development in the introduction of the new digital technology, which will lead to an entirely new media sector compared to what we know today. In this development, it is important to act quickly. The media companies that cannot adapt to this change will appear as losers when the new technology is implemented. So concretely to the views of the Progress Party on the future of the NRK. The television broadcasting licence shall be permanently removed and replaced by either advertising, pay-TV or other sources of income. The removal of the television licence must be gradual by opening it up in order to enable the NRK to obtain revenue from, for example: advertising and that this results in a reduction of the television licence. The NRK shall be privatised in the long term. This must be done gradually by allowing the State to involve partners – this in order to raise capital, but also hopefully in order to gain more competence. The Governing Board of the NRC must be composed of members who have a high understanding of economic and organisational processes and who have a large social exposure. Nor should the NRC have greater obligations as a public broadcaster than TV 2 and other media companies, such as TV 2. Schibsted. Nor should the NRK have greater obligations than other media companies to preserve Norwegian culture. The party considers that selling a Norwegian product will continue to be a major competitive advantage. The viewers and listeners will be loyal to those who broadcast Norwegian-language programs. As long as the NRK is owned by the State, the enterprise should be placed under another department, so that the regulatory role and ownership role are separated. Such a model will also avoid too much mix-up between policy and business. As long as the NRC is in public ownership, the NRC is required to ensure preparedness for crisis situations. When the NRK is privatised, the state enters into an agreement with one or more broadcasters to ensure this. Otherwise, back to the media policy statement, some of which seemed to be too much NRK and too little on other issues. Once you spend so much time on the NRK, you should have used a few words on time perspectives and declarations of intent. The Progress Party calls for time-frames for important strategy and, in particular, investment decisions. Everything was postponed to next year's budget proposal and to a general and principled announcement for the autumn. Then it can go both winter and spring before there are any decisions. No one's earned either the NRK, their owners or the licensees. Einar Förde has stated that if no decisions are made, the NRK ends up as an analogue museum. I think we all have to think about this. The development takes place quickly, and is not the NRK with from the start, you lose your foot fast and fall. Otherwise, I have to mention in passing that TV 2 AS's concession call is being watched with great excitement, and let's all hope that there will be a decision that will benefit everyone. Unfortunately, the forward and backward policy that has shaped this matter has not been at the best. Here I would also like to mention the earlier proposal made by the Progress Party that this concession should be granted by auctioning between companies that fulfil the terms and conditions of the authorities. Otherwise, the Progress Party misses a mention of, among other things, the press support contained in the presentation by the Minister for Culture. We will also read about it in the notified press release, where the setting of the Daily Press Committee will be available, a setting that does not surprise the Progress Party if it supports an increase in the press support. So back to the economy. The NRK needs a large and significant growth to be included, among others. digital development. The Minister of Culture said that ‘the NRK must invest capital in the relevant portal companies’. This probably sounds right, but what money? The NRK does not have these, and then this might sound strange. It's going to be exciting to see if the NRK gets the NOK 3-5 billion they need. Although the Minister of Culture did not commit himself to any sum, I suppose the point was there. It would be strange if the Minister of Culture didn't follow up. Then the question is: Who is going to pay – and how much? Licensing is to be maintained, says the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e703	I have to say I'm surprised at where the Advance Party will get $3 billion from to the NRK in the future. From advertising funding and other funding, it is said, but it is quite difficult to get hold of. In the distribution, the Minister of Culture said that the advertising market is about NOK 2 billion. Of them, TV 2 takes 1.3 billion or something like that, and there are radio channels and others that take the rest. I wonder if the Progress Party has knowledge of a potential that we don't know about when it comes to advertising revenue, or whether they're offered to let the NRK be funded by advertising and let it go beyond the other channels. In fact, it won't be the case, but it will be the worst case. That means that the NRK might take a very large part of the advertising market, and that means that someone else is dying in that process. Has the Progress Party thought about the consequences, or do they know about, as I asked for introductoryly, some income we don't know about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e710	To make a company profit, there are two ways to do it – and NRK AS is also a company: we can look at income, and we can look at expenses. And the Progress Party touches on both of these things. We say we should look at the company's expenses. We have 3 500 employees, we have to be more efficient, we can rationalize, so we save a lot of money. So this is the advertising market. The Progress Party believes that the NRK as a company will be able to obtain sufficient advertising revenue in addition to its efficiency so that the NRK can base its expenditure and revenues on this without necessarily having a compulsory licence. With a quality program, which we believe and hope the NRK will be able to produce Norwegian products, it will be more and more interesting to advertise and pay for advertising in the NRK. So I don't think this is a problem, I think we're going to get a commercial from the way it is today, on paper, on live images. I also believe that the market will benefit the NRK, so as I said in those who have Norwegian products, it would be interesting to buy advertising. So I don't see any of this as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e717	The representative, Bredvold, was within many aspects of the media challenges. The Council of State stated in its statement that the type of funding chosen for the public broadcasters also affects the profile and content of the companies. I want to challenge the representative of Bredvold on the relationship between the form of funding and the content of the channels. Does Bredvold agree with the Council's view on this, and does he see the value of having a non-commercial channel that is a little different, that can be a counterweight, and that can challenge the commercial forces of cultural life? Doesn't Bredvold see that this is a value and a good thing for Norwegian society? The representative Starrfelt challenged Bredvold on this with the advertising market and the possibility to finance the NRK with advertising. I guess I don't really think that the representative Bredvold gave some very good clarification on how it can be realistic. It falls a little into the series of ‘view points’ that the representative Sandberg drew up here in a previous line to me today, and testifies a little bit about the Progress Party’s way of thinking about media policy. So finally, the Progress Party will in the long term fully privatise the NRK. Then I would like to remind you of other countries, among others. England, where Margaret Thatcher privatized the most, but failed to privatize the BBC. Is it not a cross of thought for the Progress Party that our neighbouring countries and countries in the same situation have not dared to do so either? I think that if we were to follow the advice of the Progress Party on media policy, we would be left with a media offer that is a lot poorer than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e726	To the representative Ola T. Loan questions about advertising will be involved and influence the profile and content of NRK's programs: I don't think so. How's it going today? What characterizes NRK's programmes, from the point of view of the Progress Party, is precisely the majority of the Storting. It is clear that in order to get favor in the storeroom, it has a lot to say which programs a sender and how to present the programs. I don't think at all that we have that problem today with the majority we have in the main hall, so I don't think this advertising stuff will help to shape the future NRK. And I have so much faith in those who are going to sit and direct that advertising, that they do it in a sensible way, so that the advertising revenue and the advertising entries that come are of benefit to all of us. In addition, I would also like to mention, which I did not mention in my first post, this with volunteering, because that's exactly volunteering we're going to have in the case of the NRK. Freedom may, for example: be that we have pay-TV. Otherwise, we have not said that we should fully privatize immediately. We have said partial privatisation/full privatisation in the long term. Why we're going to do that, is just to get capital and skills so that in the future the NRK is going to be an even better offer than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e735	It is quite clear that the recipe of the Progress Party is to give more power to the market and to market forces. And we can see what it's like in countries where market forces have a lot of control over the broadcasters. In the Nordic region, the newscasts are on top of what the viewers are looking at. In other countries, they are far, far down, while soap series make up 20 on top shipments. Does that representative, Mr Bredvold, not worry about the fact that the broadcasters should also have a democratic function, an information function? Then to the other thing I want to challenge the representative of Bredvold. We are quite convinced that having a strong and high-quality NRK affects what other advertising-funded broadcasters send. Without a NRK that is strong, unadvertised and of good quality, I am convinced that much more garbage TV will also be provided in the commercial channels here in Norway – more Big Brother TV, more TV that will harm society, which has entertainment where participants are humiliated in the name of entertainment. We're not going to ban these, but we're going to have to have quality as an alternative. I assume that it will concern the representative Bredvold if his kids are going to have to sit and look at the kind of entertainment that I'm quite convinced he doesn't want his kids to see. But it's going to be the results if you don't have a strong NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e742	I'm glad we have a slightly different view here in the hall, because there's a different view of things that make us get a better product. As regards the quality of programmes, it is clear that the Progress Party will have quality, but at the same time we will give freedom of choice. And freedom of choice is that there should be a large range of TV programs, and that the individual can use the button, on and off, and look at the program you want. And as the representative Valle probably has registered, there are quite a number of people who like to watch Hotel Caesar, and there must be a reason for that – not that I'm necessarily the one who looks at it, but I accept that many want to watch that kind of program, and then they have to be allowed to do it. I don't think it's the commercial that makes people look at that kind of series, but they have a desire to look at them. So to this with news -- that's very important, and we're going to be involved. The Progress Party will also have broad guidelines here in Stortinget, and it is clear that the concession terms will apply to those who will be given the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e751	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e754	First, I would like to comment that the Council of State will come back with a message for the autumn. I think it's necessary now, sail if I don't think it's right to go away from the arrangement that we put up with, with these statements. In that message, the Daily Press Committee is a theme, but I also want to point to the ownership issues. Both the law and the supervision are under constant pressure, and I want to say so that I think it is important that the notification also discuss ownership regulation. It's a complicated area. For me, it is important to stress that the purpose of the type of legislation and supervision must be to ensure diversity and prevent power concentration, and that it also helps to provide the basis for Norwegian-owned and Norwegian-based media companies. There may be conflicts there, so I expect that there is something that will be evaluated. Otherwise we have asked for this statement on the NRK, and I think it was a very good statement that the Minister of Culture made. I noticed that she used the term "the crown jewel" about the NRK. That's also how I've perceived it and expressed it. The NRK is a crown jewel that we have to take care of by ensuring good working conditions in the future, by creating a framework that is appropriate, which addresses the technological challenges, the economic challenges, and which is, of course, a cultural intermediary, cultural bearer and a public broadcaster, which provides good and free information. The government will bet on the NRK, said the Minister of Culture, and was offensive in its defence of licensing funding. I think that's good, because I've been a little bit in doubt if it's possible with the new technology. But I think the Council of State is right. If you are offensive to this with licence funding in the sense that you refer to the legitimacy associated with public broadcasting and the public broadcasting role and function, I also think that you will have a licence-funded and advertising-free NRK in the future. I was able to open up business activity outside the licensing funding, and I think it is right, but here it is important with the bulkheads, which the Council of State also pointed to in its presentation. I think you have to admit that sponsoring and maybe some advertising in very limited areas will have to come back and assess. I have also noticed, like Greece, that most of the population must have digital access before removing the analogue broadcasts. I'm also not sure what the “majority” means, and I want to make it clear that it has to be 100 pst. When it was NRK2, I guess we said 80 pst. coverage, and that was acceptable, for it was to be a relief. But when you turn off the analogue transmitter, everyone has to have access to the digital. It is clear that it will be a cost question, but we have to take that. Then I want to say something about the White House on Marienlyst. It's a symbol in many ways. We registered this when someone answered the question whether it could be sold. The Council of State said in its statement that neither the government nor the owner has any forthcoming plans – I think the expression was – to sell. No, that's it. In fact, I'm of that opinion, and it's perhaps a little surprising, that you have to consider whether the NRK would get a real new lift in the form of a new building – that it might be a tool to get something new going, and that the construction would be more appropriate and more time-consuming. I know that it'll be able to generate reactions. I'm very concerned that the symbol, namely the White House on Marienlyst, is being carefully preserved, but I don't want to rule out that sales can be an important and quite interesting step to assess in relation to the future of the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e770	I think the representative Lahnstein had many interesting angles in his post. Something of the more interesting to grasp was her slightly cryptic, but nevertheless quite clear comment about ownership law, ownership restrictions and ownership supervision. It is obvious that Lahnstein has seen the same thing as many others, namely that the law we have today, the restrictions on ownership, also in the case of TV 2, can contribute to the fact that what was meant to prevent power concentration in Norway can rather lead to a breakdown in Norway and large international groups take over. So I challenge Lahnstein to go a little bit further on that idea. The right has been sceptical about ownership law and considers that it has not been appropriate. Is it so to understand that the Central Party will now assess the entire legislation in this area in order to create strong Norwegian media environments operating in different areas of the media sector, i.e. both horizontally and vertically, which is a lot of talk now? So the representative said that as Minister of Culture she had been involved in opening up business activities in the NRK, among other things. by means of advertising on Text-TV, lifting the sponsorship restrictions, etc. It was also very much in agreement with the Right, except this with Text TV. But she goes on to say that she does not ignore the fact that it may be necessary to open up advertising in limited areas. Then I wonder: which areas and where – in the main canal or in other possible new niche canals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e778	It is true that I am concerned about the ownership restrictions and ownership laws, and how they are followed up. I don't think Right and I have the same goal with the law or a system to get a grip on preventing power concentration – I'm not sure about it at least. When Greece in its speech referred to the Competition Authority as what is to be settled in all things, I am very sceptical. I'm probably concerned that we're going to have both supervision and legislation. But what I have registered is that you can get away in cases where the best can be the enemy of the good – to use that expression. I just asked that the Council of State included this in its assessment of this topic in the announced message. Because there are no simple solutions to it. On the contrary, Sigve Gramstad, as head of the Ownership Board of the Business Administration of today, says that this is a very complicated question. But with my clarification in the article today, I would like to draw attention to what is meant to prevent power concentration and ensure diversity, but also – as I saw it and see it – to ensure a Norwegian anchoring of ownership in the media companies. It may be a point when Greece points out that a lot of time has been spent here on local, small issues, which are important enough, but then you might feel a little off with the really big issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e787	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e790	We think it is a good thing that the Minister of Culture celebrates his entire media policy statement on the position of the NRK. SV looks like the Storting can go deeper into the media area when processing the message for the autumn. Evolution is fast. The more important it is that the Stortinget takes a new approach to political governance. It is necessary in a field that is increasingly driven by strong commercial forces. Political governance is important because the media has power, and because it's about social building. I would like to commend the Minister of Culture for making such a clear ring around the NRK. But I would also like to ask for a theme that SV believes should be the subject of this statement. There is an important follow-up to the setting up of the Daily Press Committee, namely the press support. In our opinion, the government has had time to take the necessary initiative to adjust the press support to a level that makes the newspapers not die. It should be solid enough evidence that press support is necessary to maintain and further develop the press diversity we have in Norway, which is crucial for democracy and local cultural life. SV calls for further thoughts about the TV 2 concession. SV agrees with the Minister of Culture that the NRK should and must be maintained as our main general and cultural broadcasters, and that licence financing or tax financing has not expired on a digital date, so one can believe that the broadcaster has intended for a long time. We support the Council of State in its view that the main broad programmes, including films, must be sent to NRK1. It should only be lacking that the Storting and the Government cannot and should express views on the broad lines of the activities of a public institution. So we agree that it's not a goal for the NRK to be the largest at all times and at all costs. The NRK must not act as if the broadcaster were funded by advertising. The NRK has to be big, that's right. But it is not that high «rating» is equivalent to quality. Often it is, but not always. I believe that too much attention to high «rating» can lead to e.g.: programmes are taken early by the poster. Experiments must be possible, and programme development costs a lot of money, money wasted if programmes with initially low viewers, but with their potential, do not get a chance. The Minister for Culture will define the general programming tasks. These tasks must also include broad entertainment programmes and films, as I said, in relation to NRK1, and the main sporting events. But I'm also very sceptical about advertising funding for sport, even for sports policy reasons. It is important that the NRC takes care of the human resources and competences of the NRC today. The company's own and independent programme productions are superior to private competitors and will be a crucial competitive factor when digitisation increases channel choices. This is important. So it affects the profile of the other media. I personally believe that we would have seen a completely different TV 2 today if the NRK had not been there with quality and width. Therefore, it is also important to maintain a strong NRK that is not funded by advertising. The major challenges ahead are to prevent higher levels of ownership, in particular between distribution and content. Links between content and infrastructure will give tremendous power over the media field and can narrow diversity. Therefore, SV is opposed to Telenor being able to have a dominant ownership, whether TV 2 or a portal company. I want to challenge the views of the Council of State on potential cooperation between Telenor, TV 2 and NRK in this perspective. If the NRK enters a portal company, which may be a good reason for the NRK to do so in order to have an important position in a future electronic programme guide, then there is an inevitable requirement on the SV side that there should be room for local TV and non-commercial operators and websites that can also broadcast in the future. In the future, an all-man network and smaller actors, such as local TV, could be just as crucial for media pluralism and for democracy as local and meaningful newspapers are today. Furthermore, I would like to say that we share the Right and – as I understand it – the view of the Center Party that there must be opportunities for 100 pst. digital coverage before switching off analogue broadcasts. This also applies to vision... [[President clubs]] Finally, I would like to address the SV's proposal: proposal No. 1, that a network company cannot have dominant ownership of a content company, proposal No. 2, which will strengthen the NRK's economy, and proposal No. 3 to increase press support to 1997 levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e813	The president noticed that a timer would delay to argue. Ågot Valle has drawn up the suggestions she herself mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e820	In a line change earlier today, I was concerned that we should not neglect being politicians. I'm going to give the SV and the representative Valle praise. Unlike Christian People's Party and other parties, SV expresses what they are for and what they are against. It says respect. But SV is relatively concerned with what has been described as ‘spam TV’. Here, I think SV has a problem. What's behind SV's concern is what people want to see. ‘Hotel Caesar’ has been mentioned earlier here today. Clearly, it is a program that captures a lot of people. Very many people want to look at it – I think I have heard of a viewer figure of between 500,000 and 600,000. The SV describes me as ‘spare-TV’, ‘links’ to some states that both the Committee and I have visited, where a regime based on SV’s ideology and philosophy governs, and where diversity consists of one state channel. And of course the result is then. My question is: can SV define for Stortinget what "spangle-TV" is? Is it that a lot of people want to look at it, which means that it is categorized as ‘spunk TV’? Or is it SV's ideology, thoughts and opinions about what people should see, that underlie such a definition? Finally, something else: SV is very concerned that we have to remove all forms of advertising. What will happen then to local television and all the means that local television channelles to voluntary teams and organisations, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e831	The large difference between the Progress Party and the SV is likely to result in diversity for the market. I believe that the market will never provide diversity. When I used the word "spangle-TV", it wasn't an expression of what people are looking at. I am not engaged in prohibiting ‘spam-TV’ even once. But I'm pretty convinced that if we give more room for programs like Big Brother, it will do something to us, both as a community and as an individual. That is why we want alternatives. And there have to be alternatives of quality. And then we have to have a non-advertising, strong broadcaster that can be involved and give this option. I have never called ‘Hotel Caesar’ and similar applications for ‘Shipping TV’. I think it is important that we have several ‘soaps’ and that several Norwegian ‘soaps’ are produced. I think we'll be clear enough to say that, and I think it should be possible to produce them. I've been busy with the local TV place, which I'm absolutely convinced will play an important role in the future. That is why I am also concerned that local TVs can be placed in the future portals, in the future electronic programme guides, and that they will not be squandered. If we don't do anything about the owner's concentrations in relation to the portal companies, we'll be at risk of local TV being broadcast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e842	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e845	As expected, the NRK was mainly presented by the Minister of Culture. It was natural and correct, both from the position that the NRK has and will have, and from a turbulent period around the institution. But to some extent other themes should also have been given a natural place in the presentation. Now the government will come back with a broad media message for the autumn, and it looks very positive at the Left. I think it will be a necessary review of important areas of media policy. It is about getting an update of both the status, the challenges and the public framework conditions. A discussion of the Agenda Press Committee's settings is naturally included here. In the news coming to the harvest, it is natural that the economy is at the centre. But it is also natural for a person to discuss other issues that belong to it. In the presentation, the Minister for Culture said: ‘Without the proper functioning of the media, the whole of democracy is threatened.’ It's an assessment that left-hand parts. This means, however, that the communication must also discuss the media's situation in relation to important issues relating to democracy. It concerns transparency, both the law and the practice of transparency in public institutions. This means that one has to deal with difficult balances in terms of freedom of expression. One must watch the difficult, but important choices. And it will be the test whether you want to give the media the framework conditions they need, and not just the honeymoon that we often use in debates. The government has recently made it clear that it wants to exempt the newspapers from VAT. That's an important clarification. A settlement is invited around this, so that it does not become a topic in the annual budget debates. It's a wish I share. I think it is important to put in place a robust policy in this area, which is important for the framework conditions for the newspapers. I also think it is important that we get a decision that is widely thought out and that a reasonable degree of certainty can be expected to be at the root for many years to come. A natural part of such a platform will also be to get a broad majority that determines that we will still have a solid press support. The left shares the main lines of the Government's NRC policy. The NRK has and will have great cultural policy significance. I am also of those who believe that this meaning is not going to be less in the years to come, rather on the contrary. The left wants a strong NRK that is mainly funded by license fees. I share the government's assessment that advertising funding is not a good option for the NRK. The government says clearly that it wants to bet on the NRK in the years to come, among other things. it is willing to take part in and take a promise to have the digitisation implemented. It is important that this will also be reflected in the fact that funds are put in place in the budget for the autumn. I'm among those who think it's unrealistic to assume that the NRK should be able to handle this promise through license fees. I also think it is important that a person complete the development before a switch over and thus get a shared offer. I think that debate you've had around NRK2, just a mild breeze compared to what will be the reactions if a phase out NRK in today's form before you have an alternative fully in place. There has been a debate in the wake of the Minister of Culture's presentation. The Minister for Culture pointed out that the NRK is a relief channel and followed up with a concreteisation of programmes that she thought belonged in one channel and not in the other. In the opinion of the Left, you're here in a border country. I think one went too far and too far into what should be the broadcaster's responsibility. To provide guidance on e.g.: Movies belong in NRK2, I don't think they're politicians' jobs. I am of those who believe that debate programmes and policy programmes sent to NRK2, more naturally belong to NRK1. But it's an opinion from me that sees, and the natural receiver of such opinion is the broadcaster. It is important not to mix the roles. It is possible not to do so, even though one as a politician is allowed to determine what was the intention behind the creation of the NRK2. I don't think the Minister of Culture's statement at this point was an elegant passage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e869	I am pleased to note that my statement has been widely welcomed. Both politicians, the directly involved parties and media observers agree that the future of the NRK is as important as its past. I also record expectations for the principal, overall media message that the Government will provide for the autumn. However, there has been an interesting debate on the editorial responsibility of the NRC in the wake of the presentation. And let me repeat what I said: NRK has absolute freedom of editing. The majority and the Government shall not assume the editorial responsibility. But Stortinget sets the framework for the NRK, and Stortinget has decided that NRK2 should be a relief channel. NRK2 today reaches something at the base of 90 pst. of the population of our country. When the NRK now mentions NRK2 as its film channel, and also sends many children's programs here, I perceive that this may be contrary to the intentions of the Stortinget. That is why I have asked the NRK's board of directors and broadcasting director to review the transmission form for NRK2 to assess whether the programs in the discharge channel are in line with the given assumptions. The independent editorial responsibility of the NRK is undisputed. Digitalisation makes us face fundamental choices, not just for the NRK, but for the whole Norwegian media market. The statement has been interpreted to mean that the government supports the digitisation of the NRK, and of course we do. The NRK is quick of historical interest if you do not reconcile with the digital nature of the relatively immediate media future. As I said in the statement, the government is not going to let the NRK die out in the digital future. This will require new and untraditional thinking, but the future structure of the NRK must not break with the anchor fastening itself for the company’s existence. For the Government, therefore, it is a very important objective to ensure that NRK’s public services are transferred to a satisfactory digital platform, so that public broadcasting can benefit everyone even in the coming years. Of course, it is important for the Government that its population has access to new technology and can participate in the development of the digital information society. Digital television can quickly become the dominant digital platform. For many, the TV screen will also be their only access to the Internet. Ground-based digital television will provide nationwide coverage and thus ensure an offer to all, as well as cable and satellite. But it's not enough just coverage. It is therefore an obvious goal for the Government to ensure that the number of households with digital reception equipment is as high as possible and that this process takes place as soon as possible. In order to achieve this, the market needs to be stimulated. It's not enough with new technology alone. The market needs to be offered new, attractive digital content. All experience, e.g. from Sweden, suggests that it is not sufficient to provide the same content as in analogue broadcasts in order to make people switch to digital receiver equipment sufficiently. I think we're totally dependent on new, attractive services from the NRK to make people want to become 'digital', to put it this way. I would say that without a fully digitised NRK, which, in addition to its general offer, can also provide new programme offers and services, we will never be able to turn off the analogue broadcasts. We will experience a ‘digital class separation’. I believe that the NRK will be the guarantor of the development towards a fully digitised Norway. But just to make sure that NRK's offer is also present in the digital future is not enough. As I said in the statement, it's my goal that the NRK will be powerful in the future as well. The NRK does not necessarily have to be the largest, but still have to be large and significant. There may be more strategies for survival in the future. One thing, however, is clear: in order to survive in the future, any company must rethink a number of areas without destroying the foundation of its business. The NRK has presented me with a strategy, as I briefly mentioned in the statement. With the exception of a somewhat expansive economy, I have to say that the operation of the NRK under the company's current management has so far been successful. A market share of almost 40 pst. is unique in Europe and speaks for itself. I therefore see no reason to doubt that the NRK's strategy for the future will have good prospects for securing the company's position and thereby be our foremost force in maintaining and developing Norwegian culture and identity. As I said in my media policy statement, digitisation will cost money. To believe that with existing means, the NRK can take the leap into the digital future is unrealistic. But when I say in the statement that the government is going to help the NRK over in the digital future, this does not mean that the government is going to propose that the government take the entire bill, as some seem to believe. Supporting the digitisation of the NRK is not the same as paying all costs directly by the State. Public broadcasting requires public involvement in the establishment and maintenance of a satisfactory infrastructure. The government comes back to funding in budgetary terms. As I said in the statement, to the autumn I will present a principal announcement of media policy. Among other things, there will be: The press policy will be the subject of careful discussion. In addition, I will return to the government's concrete proposals for the future strategy for the NRC and its financing. Let me comment so briefly on some of the recordings that have come into a very fruitful debate so far in the Greatness Hall today. Let me first say a few words about the content of the NRK and the role of cultural policy which the representative Lånke in particular called for in my presentation. I stress in everything I say about the NRK, that the future of the NRK stands and falls with the content, with the understanding of the role of cultural policy. I thoroughly prepared this for, among other things. when I gave a talk to the Council of Circuits recently, where I just underlined the need for the NRK to take its cultural policy role seriously and focus on its very central tasks of strengthening the Norwegian language, strengthening the provision of children and young people, holding to programmes on art and culture, on life views and beliefs and values. This is absolutely central to the NRK also in the digital future. These issues will, of course, be a natural part of the review with a view to making a clearer definition of the public service broadcasting obligations that we have launched. In this, the radio is also a part of course. It must be clear that the whole population must have the opportunity to receive NRK’s general offer before the analogue offer is switched off. Let me make it quite clear that it is my and the Government's clear view that we must contribute as much as we can to the implementation of digitisation as quickly as possible, and that it reaches everyone, so that there will be a shortest possible time for both analog and digital transmission. But everyone should have an offer before the shipment is switched off. It would be completely impossible to imagine a scenario that the representative of Greece imagined, that for example. Only 60 pst. they had access to the digital broadcasts when the analogue is switched off — that is totally out of the question. As far as ownership is concerned, several of the representatives have been involved in this in the context of the TV 2 situation. In the current concession notice – as it stands today – no one can own more than one third of the shares of TV 2. I'm positive for changes in these terms. We're going through a review of these questions. This has not been included in the new call that has been made regarding the TV 2 concession. We're doing a review, because we're also very concerned that this is a complex matter, where the best thing can easily be the enemy of the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e907	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e910	I totally agree with the Council of State that a powerful NRK is important in the future as well. I think there's a very broad cross-political agreement in Stortinget that we need a strong public broadcast like NRK1. I'm glad that there's been a clarification when it comes to new broadcasting director. There was a lot of anger for a while about how evolution was here. I think the NRK is going to get a good broadcaster in John G. Bernander, so it's good that it's coming in place. Governments were very much concerned with this with digitisation in their speech. It is clear that there is an enormously important challenge for the NRC, and it is urgent to take concrete action in relation to the further work there. Now state councils are notifying themselves of this and media policy in general in the fall, and then the hopeful Stortinget is going to do so quickly in order to get quick and good results. There's a couple of statements about the government council that I want to challenge it a little bit. The one he is: «I am convinced that the form of funding chosen for public broadcasters affects the profile and content of the companies.» I wonder if the Council of State could deepen this a little in relation to TV 2 and NRK. Is it true that the Council of State believes that TV 2 is funded by advertising, greatly affects the content of the NRK, which is financed by license? Or is there any other thing the Council of State is thinking about? The second designated licence shall be valid. The Council of State said: ‘If you do not believe in continued licence funding in some form or other, you do not believe in the NRK’s public broadcaster either.’ The Christian People’s Party believes in the license, but the Council of State says ‘in some form’. We know that technological development also presents us with challenges. Is there anything else the council is thinking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e934	To the representative of Molvær Grimstad's wish to deepen my statement that the form of funding affects the company's profile and content, I would like to say that we have seen clear trends that the privately funded channels must lend ear to their advertisers. I don't want to elaborate on this in detail, but I have, among other things, let me inform you that advertisers are concerned about age groups, young viewers. It's e.g. facilitate the acquisition of advertisers for the most youth-oriented programmes. I'm afraid that if we don't call about a public broadcaster that's free and independent, trends in the commercialisation of the program profile will also take place in the NRK. And I'm very concerned that the NRK is holding on to its public broadcasting mission, based on the areas I mentioned in my post, in terms of language, culture, children, young people, value programs, life views, etc., and that you're not forced to enter into competition with the commercial channels, which sometimes have to shirk other aspects of programming as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e941	I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State now gave in its statement regarding this with the TV 2 ownership restrictions. It is, as the Council of State said, so that the concession is published without any restrictions on ownership in the new concession, and we know that it is two years before it comes into force. That means that if TV 2 applies and receives a concession, they are bound by the 33.3 pst rule until a new concession enters into force. This does not seem appropriate, especially when the strongest Norwegian owner, Schibsted, considers selling his post, while signaling that a major post may be interesting. Therefore, as I did in my post, I would like to signal and underline that the Right is ready that the Council of State may at any time go to the end of this restriction, so that the rule of ownership does not constitute an obstacle to strong Norwegian owners of TV 2. And it is important that this assessment that the ministry is now carrying out is done quickly, and that one can act quickly. And once again, I would like to stress that there is a majority in this Chamber – if the Labour Party so wishes – to lift this restriction. Then I just want to ask the Council of State a question related to this with new permits to send on the digital ground. How does the Council of State view the assessment and call for this? Is there a concessional treatment, or is there going to be a price tag to access the digital ground network? Will the Council also consider increasing the number of permits, or concessions, which have already been given to one for radio, i.e. digital radio, nationwide?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e950	As I have already mentioned, we will be discussing the issues of ownership in the near future, in the light of the fact that all public broadcasters are important elements of the Norwegian cultural policy landscape. And I believe Norwegian owners with roots in a Norwegian media reality will have more ability to give TV 2 a Norwegian profile than foreign owners. That's why we've taken this up again, and if there's something we need to do with the current conditions to stimulate to keep a Norwegian ownership, I don't have any fundamental counter-conceptions about this, but we can come back to that on a later occasion. Of course, in the case of digital ground-based networks, there are a number of advantages to the development of such a network. It could complement other forms of distribution, in particular satellite and cable, and per country. Today, digital ground-tight is the only form of distribution capable of providing portable and mobile reception, and ground-tightness is also the most effective distribution for regional consignments. We're looking at the call these days, and of course, as far as advice is concerned, we're going to help others get into the net, but we're going to get back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e957	The Progress Party notes that the Minister of Culture has great confidence in a digital network and that everyone will receive this offer. What amazes the Progress Party is that the Minister of Culture does not say anything about how it is going to be done, at what price, and not least who is going to pay. I also remind you that the corresponding investment in Denmark was a near failure. Will the Council of State acquire and take with it knowledge from others who have tried similar projects? So to the main question: what does the Council of State think is the great advantage/great advantage of a digital groundline rather than the same offer through e.g. satellite, which is constantly growing? And – I repeat – where will the Minister of Culture pick up the three to five billion NRK needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e966	I want to repeat what I have said on several occasions, that the funding will have to come back to me primarily in budgetary terms, but also something more in the media policy message that we intend to present to the autumn. There are many ways of seeing funding separately, and we are in dialogue with the NRC about the sums that have also been made available to the public. They're big, but it's necessary to get this in place as soon as possible, because, as I just said, we view the digital transmissions as a very important addition to the cable and the satellite, and they can reach everyone. This is the way of the future, and it is absolutely vital for Norway and the NRK that we get this up and stand as fast as possible. As far as I am aware, it is not common for us to go into a direct debate on budgetary matters in the context of a statement, and I ask for an understanding that we need to come back to this in budgetary terms. The license is in place. I've made that clear. It is the government's clear view that licensing does not depend on the technology underlying the distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e975	We are also concerned with ownership, also in relation to TV 2. We're probably more sceptical about lifting the restrictions on ownership that are today, but we see that there are dilemmas out there and going, and we're going to get back to that and look at it really openly. What we are now concerned about, however, is the link between distribution and content, and therefore I would like to hear the views of the Council of State that Telenor could possibly enter as the owner of TV 2. We believe it is very important in the future digital broadcasting world to distinguish between distribution and content. Otherwise, it can lead to large concentrations of power and also to commercialization. This is also reflected in the proposal we have presented today. So I've previously been concerned about who should own the portals. Should anyone be allowed to be digital port guards that can prevent smaller actors from accessing the portals? That, I think, is an important question, also in connection with the conversations that are now taking place between TV 2, NRK and Telenor. Does the Council share our view that if the NRK is to enter as an actor in a portal company, it must be an indispensable condition that there is room – good space – for local TV, for non-commercial actors who, in our opinion, will be as important for the future media diversity as local viewers and meaningful newspapers are today? And then I would like the Council of State to solve some of the confusion that has been here today. Is it so that [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e984	It was a good publisher from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e987	As long as the negotiations between the parties have not been concluded, I do not think it is right for me to comment on any agreement between NRK, TV 2 and Telenor. For me and for the Government, the most important thing is when we draw up the headlines for our future media policy, that we get devices that best serve Norwegian public broadcasters, Norwegian culture and Norwegian language. There is no doubt that in these days we are experiencing a wave, an explosion, of media from all over the world, not least in Anglo-American languages, where it becomes extremely important to call our own public broadcasters, where the NRK is the crown jewel. In the case of portals, the NRK itself considers that the company can only retain its strong position in the future if it can participate in the ownership of one or more digital content portal companies. These portals will break up the relationship the broadcasters have with today's analog technology to the viewers. The government is currently considering this issue and will come back to the matter in the forthcoming Media Policy and State Budget paper. As I said, it is available per year. today no cooperation agreement between NRK, Telenor and TV 2. As far as local TV is concerned, I think that the digital network could be a great opportunity for local television to get out of. It is also an important goal for us to ensure the diversity of future digital reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e998	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for what she said about the cultural policy role of the media with the address of my post. I think that was very positive and hope that it will be followed up in connection with the work on the media message. I do not want to let go of this with the ownership restriction rule, which the Council of State was in. I understand that she is not prepared to draw any final conclusions on this, but she said she was positive about changes. I have to challenge the Council of States again whether it is so to understand that you want to abolish this rule. I have read Today's Business today, and there I see that the representative Jon Olav Alstad agrees with me that the rule that you can only own up to a third of the shares seems reasonable, but that you might prefer Norwegian owners rather than foreign ones, and that you see that it has a very positive meaning that they are present. It's not something I disagree with him in. There is also an opinion from the Director of the Ownership Authority, Sigve Gramstad, saying that the Ownership Authority can interpret the law and intervene if we get too large ownership concentrations such as: threatens diversity and freedom of expression. My question is: will the Council agree with the Director Gramstad's statement and understanding of the law at this point? I would also like her to be able to give a clear signal if she really wants to lift the ownership restriction rule. Once I have the floor, I would also like to call on Mr Ågot Valle to make all of his proposals for transmission proposals, so that they are assessed in the department and not voted over here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1009	I get the interest in this room around these ownership issues, which are both complex and full of dilemmas and contradictions. Already in my media policy statement last year, I announced a review of the possibility of removing this restriction in the announcement of the new concession, so that these are thoughts that we have had for a long time and that are therefore linked to the concession notice and in particular not a change of law. The media market is developing at a raging pace, and I don't think it's right for the department to sit down and watch that devices to ensure diversity prevent Norwegian owners from seeing it as interesting to stay on the owner's side of our companies. That's why I think it's important to have a very close look at these questions. I do not ignore that if it would be useful to achieve the objectives that we agree on, this can also be waived in the current concession period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1018	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1022	It must be nice for the NRK to have such a fierce and enthusiastic general meeting as the Council of State Ellen Horn. In the presentation, there was a lot of goodwill, little criticism, but clear demands that the NRK fulfil the obligations imposed on the company by the Storting. I also hope that the Council of State Horn will bring the Minister of Finance with her when she today so unequivocally states that everyone, 100 p.m. by the population, access to the digital groundline shall be made available before the analog transmissions are switched off, as this will be a costly promise. The Council of State has to assume that this commitment, this promise, has been noticed in those parts of the country where laying the ground is not commercially profitable, but where the population still has a clear demand for access to NRK and NRK shipments. I agree that the NRK is important as a cultural intermediary, perhaps the most important cultural intermediary we have. The institution is important as a news agent and as a channel for public debate. The Coastal Party will also continue to maintain the NRC as a State-owned institution and will give priority to enabling it to fulfil its role as a cultural intermediary and as the debater. It is important for us to be able to attend to our two official languages and for us to be able to attend to the Sami language. I should also like to say that we would like political governance with the NRK, not to control the editorial content – so far from there. The NRK shall not be subjected to political censorship. As owners, however, we should have the right to be guided by the use of the government-adopted licence fees. However, it appears that the NRK perceives that the AS form significantly limits the right of owners to make claims, e.g.: on the programme profile in both channels and on the fact that, in its possession of the licence fees, the NRK follows the premises on which the Storting decision is based. The biggest thing has called for simultaneous captioning in the NRK several times, and every time we've been met with assurances that this is just around the corner – it's coming, it's coming. Not least this year, in an electoral year, there is a significant lack of untextual transmission of the debate programmes. After all, the purpose of debates on TV is not just to allow viewers to be passively briefed on the different views that politicians and other social viewers might have. The aim of debate programmes must equally be to provide the basis for a simultaneous debate in society. And so when the debate programmes do not have simultaneous subtitles, there are several thousand hearing-impaired people being cut off from this important arena, this information channel. Then it is very little satisfactory for people with hearing impairment that reference is made to the fact that these debate programmes are sent the text in the NRK2 late in the evening, especially if they do not even have access to the NRK2. Just the possibility of participating in the simultaneous exchange of views means a lot, so I hope that the Council of State will put pressure on the NRK: there must be simultaneous subtitles, and it must come quickly. And then you're over in another problem. When the Council of State points out that 90 p.m. NRK2 is also included by the population, who only enter the channel through satellite or cable networks and who therefore have to pay extra for this. It is a problem that in those areas that are not covered by the NRK2’s regular transmission network, the fact that the licence is not differentiated in terms of reception means that it pays for a product you do not get. This is a problem that will be solved when the NRK moves from analogue to digital broadcasts – a development we want to welcome. But that is a very clear premise, and I am glad that the Council of State has today made an undertaking that it should be arranged so that the country as a whole should be covered before the analog signals are switched off. So finally a few words about the White House on Marienlyst. It may well be that the NRK will come easier through a necessary conversion period by establishing itself in new premises. But I have to say that I am startled when I see that the NRK will establish itself on the country's most expensive plot and construction site – a deep water building in Bjørvika. We must prevent that!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1039	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1053	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The first speaker is Jon Olav Alstad, spokesman for the Saga. - Sir. Everything is not present, and the president instead gives the word to Ågot Valle. The President dares to ask that one have such control over his groups that the representatives are present in the Chamber when the debates begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1066	It was fun that I got to first. It's a good idea to sneak a little in the queue, but it was fun! Norwegian films are an important part of recent Norwegian cultural history. It's urgent to get hold of the films that are owned by the family or descendants, as is the case with many of the Ivo Caprino films, or those that are in foreign laboratories. Last year, the Norwegian Film Institute picked up material that Norsk Film had in laboratories both in Sweden and in Denmark. Still, there is probably a lot of Norwegian-produced material in foreign laboratories, so efforts should be made to track down missing material. But, above all, efforts must be made to restore and take care of Norwegian films, so that they can be made available for later generations. Here we are on arrears. I have been informed that of the 50 long films that were made up to 1970, eight have been restored until now. Now that we've put the spotlight on the Ivo Caprino movies, it's because he has a very special place in Norwegian film history, and because the information about the status of the many movies that have delighted kids, parents and grandparents is disturbing. We believe it is unforgivable that the Ivo Caprino films should be lost because there is no resources available to take care of these films. This is the testament to whether it really is the will to take care of the entire Norwegian film tax. We know that the Film Institute has applied for 10 million. kr to restore the films made up to 1970. But at the same time, we believe that it is very important to plan and initiate preparatory work for the restoration of all films from the whole of the 1970s. Some of Ivo Caprino's films, among others The Flåklypa movie is from this time. It is a particularly important part of the Norwegian film tax. However, the rationale for starting the planning work lies in the entire film production from this decade. SV believes that the Norwegian Film Institute needs additional appropriations to get up-to-date on the preservation of important film taxes, and that the money has to come into the revised national budget. So I'd like to take the opportunity to say a little bit different about film – the Norwegian film heritage. I want to say something about the film heritage since 1990, and here I repeat some of what we also said in budgetary remarks before Christmas. We have received enquiries from the Norwegian Film Association, which is concerned that Norsk Film's film catalogue will be put out for sale together with the production part of Norsk Film AS. This concern is shared by us, because it may make it difficult for the active and cultural policy dissemination of the titles in the film catalogue to continue. We want to take a close look at the demands of the Norwegian Film Federation. But as an absolute minimum, it is important that at least the Film Institute and the Film Museum are guaranteed the right to use the archives of Norsk Film AS, even after a sale. It must be an absolute requirement that this film heritage be available for studies, research, distribution to schools and libraries, etc. I am aware that it was also a bit in line to bring up these themes. At least I will address the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1088	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1091	It's not difficult for a unanimous big thing to agree that it's important to take care of Ivo Caprino's movies. There are also many other very good directors and filmmakers in Norway who have done a lot of good that needs to be taken care of. Although I may find it a little daunting to make a proposal to grant money already revised in the light of a look-up in the evening post, it is not a problem to join the intentions of making sure that this is taken care of. Then you can discuss how to take care of it. The proposer is concerned that in the evening post it was said that Ivo Caprino's films should be in poor condition. Now the situation is that it's the Norwegian Film Institute and the National Library that have the professional responsibility to take care of our films. In this case, the manufacturer himself has chosen to take care of the films and not let the Film Institute take care of that task. The department has now informed the committee that the heirs will be offered to deposit the films at the institute, so that it is possible for the institute to have both an overview of the state of the films and to take care of the films that are there. This is a film heritage that obviously needs to be carefully cared for. Every year, Stortinget grants money for the restoration of films. In recent years, the Film Institute has not asked for additional funding for the restoration of films, but has now, as I understand, submitted an application for next year's state budget. We'll have plenty of time to deal with that. If additional funds are to be allocated, this must be done in the light of the institution's need and capacity to use them. The Committee very much agrees that the cultural taxes contained in these films should be borne in mind, but first we have to be responsible for them. That's why this is going to be a matter that we have to assess in each budget in the future. So until the proposer picked up at the end, that's the film heritage of Norsk Film. At least we have to make sure that the film catalogue of Norwegian Film AS today, in which the Stortinget has decided that the state will liquidate its interests, is kept in such a way that it comes out to people, and is seen by people. I didn't see for sure that the Film Institute is the right place for it, because they don't have a distribution device that allows you to show the movies to the population. Of course, the Film Institute has a very clear responsibility to take care of the physical films, but in terms of the rights to them, whether they are commercial rights or rights of use, we need to find solutions that allow as many people as possible to see the films that have been produced over time, so that they don't just lie and dust in a closet. The distribution companies that exist are largely commercial. The State has no distribution apparatus to show these films. We have to somehow secure the results of Norwegian Film AS' long-term history, so that the films don't get blown away and made interesting just for researchers and others who have special interests, but that people get to see these movies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1102	Ivo Caprino’s film production is central to Norwegian film history and consists of taxes that have meant and still mean a lot to both children and adults. I would therefore like to stress the importance of taking care of the Norwegian film heritage and ensure that this part of our cultural history will also be available to a future audience. As long as large parts of Ivo Caprino's film production are still kept with the manufacturer, I have no opportunity to document the status of these films. With regard to the digital restoration and its responsibility, both the Film Institute and the National Library are responsible. There has been some disagreement between these two parties about the conservation strategy, and I have instructed these two institutions to reach an agreement on such a strategy. The institutions have recently reached agreement, and once the plan has been sent to the department, I will address the matter. Of course, we have to come back to funding in budgetary terms, but I agree with Mr Valle and the Committee that it is an important cultural task for the nation to take care of the entire film heritage. As for the situation in Norwegian Film, where Stortinget has agreed that the state should sell out its shareholdings, I am concerned that the film archive is being used, and not dusting down. I want to emphasize that Norsk Film's archives are used in a way that allows the audience to see the films on TV and video as well as in new formats like CD-ROM, Internet etc. How this can best be done, we will come back when we have made the final arrangements regarding the liquidation of our ownership of Norwegian Film.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1125	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1139	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1159	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1173	There was a bit of a rush, I'll try to recover the breath. This case has been promoted by John I. Alvheim and Harald Tom Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, and is, to the extent that a follow-up to the little funding we have had in terms of hospital financing, over the past six months. In November it was granted 975 million. DKK for the foreign treatment of Norwegian patients. That money could not be spent during that budget year, and these were then made transferable. What has happened later is that we have received a proposal to use these funds both for domestic and foreign treatment. Unfortunately, it was voted down, against the votes of the Central Party and the SV. Following that discussion, the Committee has examined this matter, Document No. 8:45, which amounts to a further NOK 1 billion for increased treatment in Norwegian hospitals. The Health Minister, in a letter to the Committee, has said that he does not wish to grant exceptional resources for hospital treatment now, and will link assessments of capacity and needs to the regular budgetary process. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, have joined in. A second majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that a new assessment of this issue should be made in the ordinary budgetary procedure, and then only in the context of the revised national budget. There is reason to remember that it is now approx. one week again until the revised national budget is presented, and it is hoped that there are suggestions from the Government that we can increase the rate of patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals. During the period we have discussed this with an increased allocation to hospital treatment in Norway, many hospital information has been obtained about both ordinary and exceptional available capacity, and a minority in the Committee believes that it should be possible to make some of the funds available for the first allocation, i.e. the 975 million allocated before Christmas, both domestic and foreign treatment. However, when we now know, on 3 May, that the revised national budget will be presented on 11 May, everyone in the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, says that the treatment of increased allocation to treatment capacity in Norwegian hospitals must be taken into account in the context of the revised national budget. The Progress Party is promoting its ordinary proposal and will probably explain it in more detail. Finally, I want to go a little bit into the argument that we from the Center Party, along with the Socialist Left Party, have presented here, as an observation. We believe that it should have been possible, and also most appropriate, for the fastest and most effective patient treatment from the turn of the year onwards in the spring, to use the funds already allocated in November 2000, so that the appropriations for which there was actually unanimity in voting in the Chamber before Christmas could be used now, and then look at exceptional funds in connection with the revised national budget – which will then only come in a few days – after the ministry has, hopefully, been given an overall overview of the capacity of Norwegian hospitals, based on the work asked by the Minister of Health Sintef-Unimed for the Department. We believe that the funds used for both domestic and foreign treatment earlier this year would have been a more efficient and appropriate use of these resources. We now see that there have been several principles andachievements to disposal and the way in which they are used, rather than to use them in the most effective way possible. It is also said by the Minister for Health that he must primarily have these appropriations added to the ordinary budgetary procedure. To this extent, I can understand. At the same time, however, it is said that there is an organisational problem in Norwegian hospitals and in Norwegian health services, and I think that this problem is underlined by the fact that we become so square in the form of treatment in terms of available funds also for extended domestic treatment capacity. I think it is a bad warning as to what will lie in state ownership and hospital responsibility, that we should be so A4 in all our disposal that we need to refer only to ordinary budgetary processes in order to increase domestic treatment capacity – as several hospitals have pointed out, there is if you get increased appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1194	What is the right amount to grant for the treatment of patients in hospitals, one can never be sure. Consumption of funds depends on both needs and demand, and not least on the way in which these funds are used and used. It is often likely that larger appropriations alone will not solve the challenges facing the Norwegian health system. According to an OECD report, Norway is the sixth place in the world in terms of health spending in relation to gross domestic product, and No. 3 in the world when health costs are calculated per year. the population. And we might have the world's densest medical coverage after Cuba. The last statistics I saw showed that there were 283 inhabitants per. active toys. Still, we have waiting lists that are not acceptable, and big quality differences. This should clearly indicate that a person cannot afford to benefit from a better health care system on his own. I also refer to headlines in the media that refer to studies on the reduction in the effectiveness of Norwegian hospitals. The government has taken second action, and I refer to the proposal to take over the hospitals by the state by 100 p.m. public ownership and reorganisation in health establishments. The funding of patient treatment is complicated, and the assessments that need to be made are so absolutely in the ordinary budgetary processes. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the United Kingdom refers to this and rejects the proposal to grant NOK 1 billion now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1207	Let me repeat to the representative Asmund Kristoffersen that at the World Health Organisation's statistics, Norway's health care system is located in an 11th place relative to European countries in terms of quality and availability. So this third place that was referred to, we're not going to take too much seriously. It is by no means surprising for the Progress Party that we are alone in wanting to grant funds to exploit the available treatment capacity in our public and private hospitals. We are used to being alone to ensure that hospitals receive operating aids and patients receive treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system. Now, the majority in Stortinget had a very good opportunity to show solidarity – which is widely spoken of in other contexts – with those of our fellow citizens who have been in the Norwegian health queue for a long time. Both the Central Party and the Socialist Left must today feel particularly ill at ease because not many weeks ago they went in strongly to use some of the foreign billion for treatment in Norway, because hospitals had signed up for free treatment capacity throughout the country. When the possibility was now provided to exploit this capacity, which these batches allegedly did not exist before, it is not used for that reason. There will be no extra treatment for Norwegian patients in Norway in this operational year, because in a previous debate the Minister of Health announced that he would not add extra funds to the healthcare sector in the upcoming revised national budget, and I expect that it will still be available. I haven't heard any other signals. And this does the government despite the fact that the same government almost daily proclaims that the Workers' Party will give priority to health and care in the future, and this will be a campaign for election in the forthcoming election campaign. In fact, I don't think the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have anything to boast about caring for Norwegian patients' needs for faster treatment and shorter waiting times under pain and suffering. In this context and in relation to this position, it is simply incomprehensible that some are still talking about inflationary pressures and pressures on the Norwegian domestic economy by granting NOK 1 billion more to our public hospitals. No matter what the government constellation has had in recent years, the majority in this room has not been willing so far to take our patients seriously. This is also underlined in this setting. Talking about formalities, saying that the budgets for hospital operations are also adopted once a year, are not credible and a substitute moment. If we need to increase treatment capacity, and this can be done by providing more money, it is quite natural, at least for the Advance Party, that such allocation is proposed. In particular, this is true because we all know that Norway can afford to spend more on health. Finally, I would like to comment briefly that I am really looking forward to the announced hospital reform. In fact, I think that reform will put the patient in focus in a completely different way from what we've been used to in the past, and that politicians will have to take stronger account of the users. This does not mean, however, that even in the years of state hospitalization, there is no need to add far greater resources to hospital operations than the Stortinget has so far been willing to do. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1228	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1231	The question of hospital economy is difficult, and I think there were many who experienced it as liberating when then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten appointed his selection of representatives from three departments, the hospitals, the owners and the research communities, who could provide us with a consensus report on the economic situation of hospitals. Hospital economy is, as I said, a complex area, and the Christian People's Party therefore finds it most reassuring to address such matters in the ordinary budgetary procedure. Despite the fact that the committee leader says we do it once a year, we do it knowingly twice a year, and it's a whole week to the next time. That is why the Christian People's Party is part of the majority who believe that this proposal cannot be supported, but that we will come back to the matter in the context of the revised national budget. And our attitude here, of course, does not mean that we disregard increased appropriations for hospitals in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1238	I think the representative Alvheim must be the victim of a selective oblivion. In fact, the Progress Party and the Right have joined forces in the call for a better organisation of the healthcare system, for state responsibilities and for increased appropriations. Therefore, the proposal of the Right Party of Advancement also supported the proposal for a foreign treatment before Christmas, amounting to NOK 1 billion. However, although patients have now been offered foreign treatment when capacity in Norway has not been high enough, the aim must be to obtain the best possible offer in Norway within medically sound deadlines. That's not the case today, we all know that. There are 290,000 people waiting for treatment. Of these, 90 000 have been waiting for more than three months, while approximately 90 000 have been waiting for more than three months. 40,000 have waited more than half a year for treatment. However, in order to increase the capacity of the Norwegian healthcare system, substantial reforms are needed, for the deficiencies in the healthcare system are evident. The organisation is characterised by unclear responsibilities and contributes to the underutilisation of resources deployed, both human, economic and technical. Other nurses work part-time, many trained nurses work outside the healthcare system, and expensive medical devices stand unused for large parts of the day. I think this shows that there is more than a lack of money that characterises the Norwegian health service. For years, the right has proposed transferring responsibility for hospitals to the state, and we are now happy that the Workers' Party has also come to it and will be in favour of state acquisition of the hospitals. But I need to point out that this process would be easier if you had followed the Right even when it was about the closure of the county. But what is certain is that such a reform will contribute to the overall management of the specialist health service and the better use of financial and human resources, thus ensuring better health care and reducing unworthy health cows. As underlined by the rapporteur, the Right also considers that the assessment of whether the appropriations adopted have been adapted to the needs, capacities and assumptions of the health care system must be carried out in the ordinary budgets. Therefore, in this case, the Right has not now supported the proposal of the Advance Party for DKK 1 billion for domestic treatment. First, hospitals must use the money they have already received, and that was increased appropriations for the current year. While it was true that this billion abroad made available capacity in Norwegian hospitals visible, it is also evident that alternatives and competition in health services will help to increase capacity for more people to be treated. It is also true that if there is really free capacity at the hospitals, the county councils are free to use this capacity, because the state makes up 50 pst. the financing by the ISF Facility. And if the element of price financing had been greater and went directly to the hospitals, hospitals today would have both better finances and better incentives to use the capacity. So here it's not just about money, but it's about better organizing the internal functioning of hospitals, and it's about getting this state ownership reform in place so we can free up more capacity. The right is in favour of giving more money to the health service, and we have also proposed that in our annual budgets over several years. But we're of the opinion that such large appropriations for one purpose belong to the ordinary budgets, and then we've both revised and revised the annual budget for the harvest where we can come back to this if it turns out that there is a need for more money for the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1253	Has this room now run out of arguments as to why it is not to be accepted by the Progress Party's proposal for increased appropriations for the health sector? Several arguments have been tried in the past – inflation has gone on. Now we've come to the conclusion that it's not right to grant a billion dollars now, because it's best for the state budget. It is possible that the State budget should preferably be used to grant it. But then I ask myself the question: What about all the other matters that you deal with in this room? What happened when you had to give up the debt to the Gardermoban – did it happen via the budget? Everything that is granted by money in this room – is it done in the context of the budgetary procedure? In the case of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, they claim that in the case of the foreign billion, it can be used domestically, because there is no capacity available here. Then you come to this matter, and then you say, "No, we have to look at this matter in the context of the budgetary procedure." So we cannot then use the same arguments to use the foreign billion for domestic treatment because there is no capacity available here, no, then we have to wait until the budgetary procedure! It is clear that some people feel reasonably uncomfortable in this situation. Norwegian patients are still on waiting lists and waiting for treatment. We know that there is free capacity both in public hospitals and private hospitals. This is a proposal that has just been submitted to help remedy the situation of some pain and suffering experienced by many patients in this country while waiting for treatment. And then I have to say that I am disappointed with the majority of the committee and the size of this matter. One is not willing to take the responsibility and ensure that Norwegian patients receive the treatment they should be entitled to in this country. As long as we have vacant sick beds, as long as we have free treatment facilities, and as long as we have queues of patients to receive treatment, this will take on responsibility and ensure that those people receive the treatment and follow-up that is Norway worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1266	I would like to take up the proposal of the Advance Party II, but first I would like to mention that it is rather remarkable that we reject our proposal I to grant more money to all public hospitals, because it is to be addressed during the examination of the revised national budget. I then assume that the same committee members have the same opinion as regards the proposal from the Government on supplementary appropriations for the Rikshospital. It must then also be included in the revised national budget. For whether a proposal comes from a representative or from the Government, the rules of procedure are identical. The consequence of what the majority of the committee says is that no consideration will be given to the Government's proposal for additional appropriations for the Rikshospitalet. Our proposal II reads: ‘Private hospitals capable of performing operations for normal DRG [[diagnosis-related groups]] Intervention-based funding is a form of unit price where different grant rates are available for the different types of operations. It's not meant to cover all the costs, it's probably now at 55 pst. of a total budget over a year, but it depends on the activity. And for every operation or treatment you do, you get a single payment from the Rikstrygdeverket, to put it simply and briefly. – The exact same as for tariffs, e.g. for X-ray institutes. What's fair is that in the next case you actually have to deal with the tariff system for X-ray institutes. So there is a majority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, in favour of equal rates for public and private X-ray institutes. It was supposed to be a matter of course in a country like Norway. That's where they say yes to non-discrimination right away. Why then – as far as I understand – do these parties reject exactly the same principle as regards DRG payment? If a public hospital gets a DRG payment, which is not 100 pst. coverage of all expenses because it covers only 55 pst. of a total budget over a year, for a gray star operation or for a broccoli operation, and if there are private clinics or private hospitals that are willing to undertake operations just for the DRG rate, and they are, as far as I understand, part of it, because in certain contexts it is good, why do you say no to it? What is the general position of the other parties to this with the same payment for the same service whether it is a private or a public owner? That's what I don't understand. I challenge those parties that, at least in the case of the X-ray institutes, accept an order to the Government on equal rates of RR research, etc. in private and public X-ray institutes for 2001, to be part of our proposal II, because it will not cost the state five cents, because the DRG rate will nevertheless be paid to the public hospital at a later stage. And if it's a private hospital that gets the DRG grant, you don't pay the government later. So it doesn't cost five cents, and it's allocated over an estimate chapter. It is totally incomprehensible if the same parties who believe this to be true of the X-ray institutes do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party II in the present case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1280	We're going to discuss the X-ray institutes in another case, so I'm not going to go into it that much now. In terms of input-driven funding – DRG systems and the ISF mechanism – I think maybe more people should go into it more closely. The 50 pst.- intervention-driven funding share that we have cannot in any way be compared to what we are in favour of when it comes to financing for private and public X-ray institutions. What we've said in this context is that they should be treated on equal terms, and that doesn't mean that it should be equal to the rate. The setting has also been duly documented and pointed out. Otherwise, I will agree with the Advancement Party in one thing, and it is that it is completely hopeless to talk about inflationary pressures because of one extra billion for patient treatment. I do not agree with that debate either. I agree with the Advancement Party. So to this with the will to grant. We've said we'd spend the 975 million. kr that was granted before Christmas for both domestic and foreign treatment, so that they could be used as efficiently as possible, and so that the waiting lists could be reduced as quickly as possible. And then we said we should look at what we should do when we came to the revised national budget, when the government had been documented some of the things that they wanted to document, to be at all involved in some things. And I hope, as I said in my first post, that Sintef now has his investigations ready, and that there's something going to be revised. I want to ask the Minister of Health a question about the 975 million. kr, which we invited to use both abroad and domestic in the early winter. How much is now used by that allocation? I don't expect it to go at the decimal level, but how much is roughly used by this foreign billion, as it's popularly called. And how many patients have been treated until the month of April/May? Is it possible to get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1293	There is little lack of precision when the Progress Party discusses the views of other parties. It's not right, as the representative Nesvik said, that the Christian People's Party had no counter-representation against using domestic foreign billions. Then it would be quite illogical if we could not use domestic billions. I'll agree with him on that. But for the Christian People's Party, there were two things that had to be fulfilled in order for us to go in to use the so-called foreign billion. One was that there should be capacity domestically, of course, and the other was that this should have no unfortunate influence on the economy in Norway. And given that we, by the Ministry of Finance, were dissuaded from using the rest of this billion domestically, we did not find ourselves able to go in for it. And it's not right, as Hagen's representative says, that we've filed for equal x-rays for private and public X-rays. We'll get back to that, as the representative of Joy said, in the next case. On the other hand, we want it to be treated on equal terms, and based on the fact that the Storting has asked for this already for the current year's budget, it will be a purely follow-up. Otherwise, waiting time is a known phenomenon when the health service is being discussed. And for my part, I am willing to accept a one-week waiting period to have a coherent budgetary procedure on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1303	I did not ask for the floor for the debate itself, which has now been on the proposal, but since I received a direct question from the representative, I will at least try to make a brief comment, also in the extension of an answer I gave in yesterday's Question Time. That has been what I would call a cautious start to the regime of patient treatment abroad, which was adopted by the Stortinget at the end of last year, and it is not unexpected in itself on the basis of the fact that there is a new system, a system that was put in place without any extensive prior information, and which has also been controversial within, among other things. professional medical environments. However, in my opinion, the scheme is now well established, and there is reason to believe that there will be a clear increase in the application of the possibilities it offers for treatment abroad in the future. I have, as I guess it was suggested here, not prepared any exact data for the exploitation until now. The last estimates I saw, I believe, were of the order of 500 identified patients who had either received or were available for treatment abroad, and with the average costs it was supposed to be on, I would think it was about the amount of the order of 20 to 30 million. kr. In addition, the costs associated with the establishment of the scheme and also the measures to be taken in relation to the follow-up of patients. Contracts with foreign hospitals have been negotiated for a total capacity of 4 500 patients on an annual basis, and it is further negotiated similar agreements that are expected to provide a capacity of 10,000 patients on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1312	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2849]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1326	Ms Annelise Höegh and Mr Børge Burnde, represented in Document No. 8:66 for 2000-2001 proposals for non-discrimination between private and public X-rays institutions. In the light of the proposal, the proposers point out that, when examining the revised national budget for 2000, the Storting decided to ask the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget on a level playing field for private and public X-ray institutes in the context of the 2001 budget. In connection with the presentation of St.prp. No The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will present the follow-up to this proposal in the year 2000–2001. The Committee shall consider, inter alia: to point out the following statements from the Ministry of this Proposition: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health agrees that it is important for public and private X-ray institutes to be treated on equal terms and to develop a tariff system to ensure this.’ Furthermore, reference was made to the notification in the revised national budget for 2000 that an initiative had been taken to look at the development of a common code network to provide the basis for a new tariff system for private and public X-ray institutes. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Workers' Party and the SV, understand that such work as this is intended will take some time, but the majority nevertheless feel that there should be nothing in the way that, as long as this work is in progress, the private X-ray institutions are granted a reimbursement rate on equal terms to that received by the public institutions. The minority of the Committee, from the Labour Party and the SV, refers to letters from the Minister for Health which show that the work on a complete review of the tariff system is already under way and that the aim is to promote proposals in the State budget for 2002. The minority proposes that Document No. The 8 proposal is rejected. The Progress Party does not want more time to be wasted before a grant at a reimbursement rate on equal terms and indicates that the work in progress on a new code work cannot justify the private institution having a significantly lower reimbursement rate another year before the code work is in place. The Progress Party therefore supports the majority’s recommendation to ask the Government of the revised 2001 national budget to submit proposals for RTV tariffs on a level playing field to the private and public X-ray institutes for 2001, as a temporary solution pending the proposal announced in the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1348	The tariff system for both x-ray and laboratory services needs to be continuously updated, including: due to changes in medical technology, equipment and not least due to very rapid changes in the computer technology part of the equipment. These are changes which may be off-balanced with the fact that tariffs should be reduced or adjusted up, taking into account the cost picture of surveys and sampling. Whether the tariff picture is to be different from the public to private x-ray activity depends precisely on the cost picture, the type of operation and the obligations. For example, the X-ray department in a hospital must maintain a different alert from private X-ray institutes. Education obligations further complicate the image. Indirect cost recovery in public hospitals in the form of e.g. framework transfer measures are included when the tariff picture is to be made. This suggests that tariffs should not be set without a prior thorough assessment of the many factors to be taken into account. I therefore think it is unfortunate that the majority of the population should press for a new rate for MR studies when one is well aware that there is now a review in the department of today's legislation in close cooperation with the parties, such as Norwegian Radiological Association, Hospital and Private Institute. This work should be completed and presented in the 2002 budget, as previously announced by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1355	Would the representative of Kristoffersen like to refer the proposal to the file?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1358	Thank you, President. That's what I was going to do – so I'm going to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1363	Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1366	The Christian People's Party will show that the Stortinget has asked the Government to propose a level playing field for private and public X-ray institutes in connection with the 2001 government budget. It has been pointed out that current rates do not cover the costs of MR studies by private X-ray institutes. This can clearly have unfortunate distortive effects, which would be particularly undesirable because, in MR studies as opposed to conventional X-rays, ionizing radiations are not used. The private X-ray institutes are responsible for a large part of these important surveys. It should be ensured that such studies can continue to be carried out to the extent desirable and per. Today, as I said, includes both public and private X-ray institutes. Representatives Annelise Höegh and Børge Brende have proposed that the rate of MR studies of the Rikstrøgde Agency should be equal to that of private and public X-ray institutes. However, it is now the case that private and public institutions have different financial relationships and obligations, precisely because they are private and public, as the representative Asmund Kristoffersen pointed out. It is therefore not the case that these institutions should have equal tariffs, but they should, as proposed by the Committee, have tariffs for MR studies on equal terms. It will prevent undesirable developments towards fewer such studies. The Christian People's Party understands that this is a work that can take time and that can be extensive, but we still believe that this should be done now. All the time the government is already working on such work, we believe this should now be completed. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1377	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a majority for the Right's proposal to give private and public X-ray institutes tariffs for studies on equal terms, and that this is being done as a temporary solution pending the budget for the autumn. In the case of the tariff system for private X-ray institutes, they have had a refund from the public's financial interests which has been around the same. 20 pst. higher than the reimbursement for the same examination by public institutions. This has been justified by the fact that private institutions have to cover investment costs through the tariff, while public institutions are covered by special appropriations. In the spring of 2000, when the Ministry decided to set the reimbursement from the population allowance for MR studies by private institutions, the rate was set at NOK 838 – despite the fact that MR studies by public institutions were reimbursed at NOK 1625. The reason was that, in principle, the municipalities would have to pay the amount of the contribution needed to provide the private institutions with full cost coverage for MR studies. In retrospect, few county municipalities have been willing to introduce payments for MR and there are several examples of county municipalities having reduced the purchase of services by private institutions and justifying this with poor finances. I could imagine hearing what the Council of State has to say about the county council's failure to follow up in this area, which has put many of the private X-ray institutes in a difficult situation. The current tariff system for private institutions does not differentiate between small and large MR machines. The simplest appliances cost 3 million. kr, while the large apparatus capable of carrying out all types of investigations costs up to 15 million. kr. With NOK 838 in reimbursement, the private X-ray institutes may not even recover capital costs in respect of investigations into the large appliances. The consequence of this is that the private institutions concentrate the activity around the more reasonable MR devices that can only be used for easier studies. This could lead to a reduction in the supply of patients who need the most advanced studies, and these are the patients who have the most potentially serious diseases. There are signs that such a development of a reduced MR offer is already underway. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the Stortinget stated in its examination of the revised national budget for 2000 that public and private X-ray institutes should be treated on a level playing field in relation to reimbursements from the public interest. The government was due to come back with a more detailed proposal in the 2002 State budget. The right already felt at the time that the private X-ray institutes should be given equal reimbursement immediately, and therefore put forward proposals to that effect. We proposed increasing the appropriations for MR tariffs in the budget, in line with the proposal. However, the right did not receive a majority in favour of this proposal. If we had, we could have saved this debate. But there is now a broad consensus that it is important for public and private X-ray institutes to be treated on equal terms. Of course, the right-hand side understands that the department has to have some time. However, we believe it is necessary that we give the private institutions reimbursement rates on equal terms with the public, because here there are not questions about either public or private, but about both, so that patients can get the best offer. The private X-ray institutes are a very necessary and valuable complement to the public. The right is therefore pleased that the majority now sees the need for a temporary solution that can help ensure the operation of the private institutions and provide patients with better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1401	There may be reason to clarify what this case is and does not apply. It thus applies to tariffs for MR surveys until the 2002 state budget is submitted. Then it's hopefully the government will present a complete plan for more equal treatment of private and public X-ray institutions, at least that we get a clarification. It's the patient's concern that makes us from the Center Party think it's right now to adjust this in line with the proposal of the representatives Annelise Höegh and Børge Brende. In most cases, it is appropriate to use MR in preference to study with ionising radiations where possible. Then it turns out, as several speakers have pointed out, that the county councils believe that this is becoming too expensive to study, and that we are not using MR for some patient categories that should definitely be investigated with MR. On the other hand, the institutes say that the current tariffs do not even cover the cost of capital. It is important that these studies do not cease and that people receive the studies and treatment they need. Therefore, we believe that it is now right to have RVT tariffs for MR surveys on a level playing field for the private and public X-ray institutes until the 2002 state budget is presented and finalised. We are fully aware that this is not the same expenditure for the private and public X-ray institute, and so it should not be equal to reimbursement. Among other things, the diversity of the conditions under which the public X-ray institutes have emergency functions and their educational responsibilities and tasks. These things must have compensated for, as opposed to the private X-ray institutes. We are also aware of what the Minister of Health says, and what the minority here says, that there is a need for a new code book that takes into account more things than what we take into account now. But for the patient, it is important that we have a tariff system in place to ensure that the MR offer does not go away for the areas and patients that need to use the private X-ray institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1428	In Document No: 8:11 for 2000-2001 the Landfill Representatives Mr Korsberg, Mr Vaksdal and Mr Eriksson made the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that social alarms are covered by the public interest and allocated through the assistance centre.’ Similar proposals have been dealt with twice before the current ageing period. At the request of Stortinget, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has investigated the costs and consequences of transferring responsibility for the allocation of social alarms to the assistance centres where the costs are covered by popular protection. Of the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1997-98 shows that annual costs have been estimated to be about 1 %. 200 million. SEK, of which 11 million. kr will be used for new purchases of social alarms. Afterwards, a report was prepared by a working group with members of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Social Security Agency. The report was submitted to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99. The investigation shows that a rights attaching of social alarms to public security will not give users equal access to social alarms and social alarm services. Many of today’s users will be excluded. State expenditure on the acquisition of social alarms will vary from 40 to 130 million. kr, shows the investigation. The size was in line with the Government's recommendation that responsibility for social alarms and associated services should remain in the municipalities. The proposers state that the public’s concern after today’s system covers alerts for those who fulfil the conditions for support for technical aids. This is not correct. A broad majority in the Grand Duchy, all with the exception of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1450	It is of fundamental importance that people feel safe. For elderly people living alone, it is essential that they can get in touch and help in a threatening situation. It can be all about everything from fear of thieves to that they cannot get up after a fall on the floor. By pressing a safety alarm, they are called for help. This simple tool enables several elderly and disabled people to stay at home for as long as possible. The proposers are concerned that everyone should have equal opportunities to receive this offer and point out the wide difference between the provision of services to municipalities and that self-payment varies accordingly. In the past, the Christian People's Party has wanted social alarms to be covered by popular protection and allocated through the Emergency Centre. After a working group of members from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Agency has presented its report entitled ‘Possible models for the organisation and financing of social alarms and social alarm services’, we are no longer so sure that this is the best solution. The investigation shows that users will not have equal access to social alarms, as both the proposers and the Christian People's Party are concerned about. The criteria for the provision of a social alarm covered by public health will lead to the absence of a social alarm for several current users. Today some social alarm is given by the municipality, because they have a certain age or as a purely anxiety-relieving tool. A safety alarm for these can be a good precaution and should be able to continue. The Christian People's Party welcomes the development of a community sector guide, and hopes that it will be completed soon. It must not be so high that the elderly cannot afford to rent a social alarm. There should also be no unreasonable interconnection charges. The Christian People's Party does not consider it appropriate to instruct the municipalities that social alarms should be compulsory. Municipalities themselves and in cooperation with users must decide which measures and tools are best for the individual. We therefore vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1469	The representatives of Storting Øyvind Korsberg, Øyvind Vaksdal and Robert Eriksson from the Progress Party have in Document No. 8:11 put forward proposals to ask the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that social alarms are covered by the public interest and allocated through the assistance centre. After today's system, it is up to the municipality of residence of the individual to decide on the offer of a social alarm and the price to be paid in proportion. It is an explicit objective that older people who want to do so should be able to live at home for as long as possible. In such a situation, it is important to clarify that a variety of care services are needed for the elderly who are in need of care. For the Progress Party, it is an important principle that the day in which a person needs assistance should ensure that he/she is given the assistance he/she needs. This offer must be adapted as far as possible to the wishes and needs of the individual. Social alarms are a very important tool for many people living in the home to feel safe in the event of an accident and a need for assistance. The Party considers that safety alarms must be approved as an aid in line with crutches, wheelchairs and the like. The Party therefore considers that the assistance centres must be suitable as distribution channels for this aid. In this way, a person may also receive a uniform treatment and allocation, where the address of residence is not essential for the cost of this service to the individual. Many older people have very small incomes, and one is afraid that many cannot afford a social alarm because the components are too high. There is also reason to refer to a proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the SV that was promoted in the Inner East. S. No 294 for 1996-97, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that social alarms are covered by public security and allocated through the Emergency Centre.’ When we look at the proposal that exists today, which is almost identical, it is interesting to note that only the Progress Party and SV are on the same proposal as at the time. I hope the Christian People's Party and the Left can tell us why they have now changed their view on this matter. The representative, Einar Olav Skogholt, pointed out that if this went through, there were several people who did not have the possibility of a safety alarm. That would be right if you were to meet the same criteria as the people's rights and assistive technology centre for the award of this service. We also feel that these criteria are in proportion to promoting the necessary legislative proposals, because the offer that is already on offer per year. today, shall be covered by the fear of the people. I finally want to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and SV included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1489	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1492	This matter has been dealt with in Stortinget on various occasions, which has also been affected by previous speakers. Among other things in St.prp. No 1 for 1997-98, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health presented an assessment of this issue, which states that a takeover of expenditure associated with the purchase and operation of social alarms will be close to 200 million. kr per. And of that, 11 million. initial investment every year. Then a sample was set up, composed of members of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Agency, who produced a report in connection with St.prp. No 1 in the autumn of 1998 where it is not recommended that the social alarms be the responsibility of the State or their rights attached on that basis. It is based on, inter alia: that there will then be a system to ensure that there will be many who already have a social alarm, who will not be entitled to a social alarm only on the basis of the criteria of old age or safety and anxiety mitigation. We have turned something around in this matter, on which the representative Nesvik was involved, and we stand by that. The principle of equality and, inter alia, removing very different self-payments was strong with us as we dealt with this issue in the last half of the 1990s. But we also see that the principle of equality has its price, among other things. that there will then be a much more hard-handed assessment of who is entitled to a social alarm or not. There's another unresolved question here as well. If a safety alarm is to have a good function, it must be a safety centre that works, and therefore you are very dependent on a good and close cooperation with local, rather than municipal authorities, to make this a security system. It's not enough just to press a button to alert it somewhere, it has to be a place where you can quickly move out and give the person who needs it, assistance and support. It always means that this has to be a close cooperation with the municipality level. At the same time, I think that in some cases the principle of equality also has to give way to locally based knowledge, which includes: open and home-based care may be much greater than the Rikstrøgdewerk sees where the need is and that a security and alert system can then be set up to meet the needs of the individual. That's a lot of the reason why we're in favour of the majority voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1516	The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Einar Olav Skogholt. The next speaker is Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1519	Parliamentary representative Odd Einar Dørum has made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal authorising the withdrawal of the grant of a grant to a place which discriminates against minorities.’ It is an important matter for Dørum to address in Document No. 8:50 for 2000-2001. The proposer points out that a number of studies have demonstrated that there is more or less systematic discrimination against minorities in outpatient settings on a relatively large scale. The proposer further states that the need to strengthen the protection of minorities against daily discrimination has been highlighted for a long time by a number of teams. I would also like to be shown that the issue raised by Mr Dørum is addressed in his Document No. Eight proposals have been discussed in meetings between representatives from the Municipality of Oslo, the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination and the departments concerned, among others. Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The Committee has pointed out that discrimination in business activities is prohibited under Section 349a of the Criminal Code. Municipalities can already lay down criteria for discrimination in the administration of the hamlets in the municipality. Municipalities are very free to consider grant applications. The right to refuse an application is more than the right to withdraw an authorisation. The majority of the committees indicate that the alcohol law is an alcohol policy instrument and that the aim of the law is to minimise the social and individual harms that alcohol use can cause. Although it is in line with the aims of the food law to prevent ethnic discrimination at outpatients, in the majority’s view, legislative changes will be necessary to provide the basis for administrative responses in such cases. An overall committee, with the exception of the representatives of the Progress Party, asks the Government to assess the legislative changes necessary to allow administrative responses to offenders. I hope the government's assessment will be available in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1550	The President saw something quirky when he gave the floor, and adjusted as follows: Mr. Nose, the next speaker is Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1553	There's no prestige in this from my side. I am a person who avoids outdoors to the extent possible. I suppose in that context I am a minority, and I consider myself to be protected from discrimination. But here we are talking about ethnic discrimination on outdoors. This is prohibited under the criminal law, but we have been informed that claims for evidence have led to most cases being dismissed. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is unacceptable that law paragraphs thus become asleep and cannot be enforced. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal of the representative of Dørum and the suspension of the committee. It is important not only to give a clear indication of what is unacceptable behaviour, but also, in this, as in other cases, to give penalties that are inconvenient when, for example, outlaws do not relate to the law in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1562	The President makes it clear that for his part he is aware that this is not an outdoors site, and would like to stick to the rules that apply in the house – therefore the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1565	I hope at least that the previous speaker will be seen as a minority in this case, because if not I'm afraid there won't be many donations left in this country. The Progress Party is of the opinion that there is no need for a new legislative proposal to prevent discrimination against minorities at outpatients. This type of discrimination referred to in this Document No. The 8-proposal from Odd Einar Dørum, is in fact already prohibited under the penal law § 349a. The argument put forward that the requirement of criminal law to provide evidence is so strict that this is the basis on which cases are instituted does not appear to be an argument in favour of other provisions dealing with this type of incident. The important thing is that if someone claims that ethnic discrimination is being practiced, this is in itself such a serious charge that strict evidence requirements must be imposed so that both parties have a good enough opportunity to get their views on the matter carried out. The party of progress also fears that we will face a number of situations in which people will try to abuse such a system as this one is put up to. The Progress Party therefore takes up its proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1576	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1579	There have been almost a few confessions about who belong to different minorities. I won't go much further into it, but I think in this context belong to the broad jump. Discrimination is an important and serious issue. That is why the proposal by the representative, Odd Einar Dørum, is something we should take seriously. At the same time, I would say that it's not that easy to follow up on this, because there's a requirement for proof-making regardless of what kind of laws you're going to apply. It is then a question of finding an appropriate law to have the right sanctioning options, such as: The representative, Mr Naess, was also involved. I therefore think that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has come up with a sensible position and a sensible proposal for a decision, and in this context I would like to say that it is another committee to deal with this in the next round. In this setting, we reject the fact that it should have something to do with alcohol legislation, but believe that it should have something to do with, among other things. serving law to do, and then there is more to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Trade Committee here in the house. But I hope that the Government will assess this and come back quite quickly, because the discrimination to which the proposer refers should not occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1586	I like the setting. I have not read it as the last speaker, that the committee has rejected any way of dealing with it. On the contrary, the government has been asked to look at various laws that may be applicable, to do this. After having recently gone through the situation of the travel industry in Oslo, we know, for example. that you can be granted a gift grant, which you may lose out on, but you may also lose it on faulty terms. No one's losing it on the wrong side. The fact that no one loses it can, among other things, cause us to lose it. have to do with what you control when you go out. Then you can stretch it a little bit further and ask yourself, is it not part of the habit that you don't act with normal people's habits? Isn't it part of the shame that you behave without discriminating? At least it is not an unreasonable question to ask. So I guess it also comes when you consider the matter further. It's a fact that the criminal code we have, to which the representative Nesvik referred, has, over the course of 29 years, led to one charge. That sentence is currently appealed to the Lawyers' Court and applies to Valentino's property here in Oslo. It tells us that the rule doesn't go far. As far as serving law is concerned, I do not think that it will do either, because the criminal law, which is the basis of the law today, is the starting point for an offence, and it may not be enough under the law of serving to have consequences for the grant of a gift. I think those who have to look at the law have to look at the rules of the alcohol law. When one has to comply with a standard of conduct in order to operate a place under the alcohol law – I am not going to comply with the standard of good practice that exists, but we already have requirements to operate with activities that are not allowed, for example: drug trafficking activity — there is a reasoning that, in my opinion, should be considered. I promoted the proposal primarily in order that the existence of such a proposal and the legal provision as a result of it should normally act as a preventive and behavioural regulator in such a way as to have an obligation to act in such a way as to ensure that this does not happen. Anyone will then be concerned that there should be his reputation, the reputation of the place, which does not happen. I think, to finally say in this post, that all the serious ones in this industry won't be interested in this happening. The problem is that in Oslo there is only between a third party and a quarter of the travel industry that is organised. Most of them aren't organized, and some of them aren't organized, you can wonder what's going on. I'm not going to wonder about it from Storting's pulpit except to say that I've had meetings with what I'm going to call the serious part of the business. There's no doubt that they want to live up to these intentions. If you get a legal regulation and enhancements that result from it, I'm sure the industry will cooperate to get solutions, also with the control bodies, so that you have this as a rice behind the mirror, and that it can give you a result. I have also promoted the proposal because over many years of activity, especially in this city of Oslo, I have experienced that discrimination at the scene is almost out of proportion in terms of trust between ethnic minority groups and the authorities. Cleaning up this can help to create a type of general trust that benefits society in terms of, for example, the fight against illegal activities in other areas. People will feel that something they're annoyed about is being taken seriously by society. If you want to be a citizen, you want to be a citizen in other contexts, for example. has a duty to testify. It's weird that it should be like this, but sometimes things get a symbol function. Then it is the duty of politicians to do something about it, and I feel that the committee has dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2850]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1613	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2851]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1627	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2851]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1635	We are then ready for voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1654	There is no voting theme in case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1661	During the debate, Mr Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left, has put forward three proposals which have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1664	We have received several requests with the request to have these sent to the Government. I think it is such a good proposal that the government should be given the opportunity to look at them further, so I ask that they be converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1669	The President then understood that, on the basis of repeated requests, proposals were converted. 1-3 for transmission proposals, and the introductions are then amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit legislative proposals to the effect that a network company cannot have dominant ownership of a content company.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce a zero rate scheme on VAT combined with the right to deduct input tax for the NRK’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government increase press support to 1997 levels in the 2001 State budget.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Culture at the Stortingen meeting on 26 April 2001 on media policy be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1699	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the conservation and restoration of Ivo Caprino’s film production.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1763	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1833	During the debate, Asmund Kristoffersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:66 [[2000-2001]] An alternative is to vote between the nomination and the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1857	During the debate, Mr Tom Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to cover the cost of social alarms from the public interest and to be allocated through the Emergency Centre.’ An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1882	During the debate, Mr Tom Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:50 [[2000-2001]] An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1906	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 23 April 2001: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a system of advance commitments for student housing to be established in existing housing/property stock within agreed cost frameworks. The purpose of the scheme must be to enable interconnections to have State aid security when they enter the bidding process and do not risk having to co-finance or finance the building stock for several years before providing a clear signal for the State aid and the restructuring project.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1920	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow municipalities and county councils to raise loans to finance the purchase of shares in power companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1934	The President has some doubts, after the vote, about the basis for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1937	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1944	Should the President then let the voting go again, or should we just adjust the numbers? The president suspects that the safest thing, if anything is safe, is to let the vote go again. That's what a lot of people say.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1949	President, I have voted incorrectly and asked for a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1956	Yes, with all these confessions, the President will allow votes to be taken on the proposal in Case No. 13 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-03.ana.ud1912e1972	There is no record. Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will draw attention to the fact that the Odelsting meeting will be held at the beginning of the evening. 18th@item: inlistbox
