ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former M.A. Knut Andreas Saron Myrstad is dead, 87 years old. Knut Myrstad was born in Selje on 2 December 1913. Most of his working life he worked for and in the Department. After completing his Bible school, he began in 1934 as a youth secretary in Nordfjord Indremition. Later, he became a circuit secretary in the same inner-mission circuit. At one time he was also a primary school teacher, and for some years he was a teacher at the Indomitium Bible School in Oslo. Myrstad was a treasured public servant and employee, and was used in a number of contexts. Myrstad came into local politics in 1949 as a member of the Selje School Board, where he later became Vice President and President. He also sat in other local subjects and rulers. Myrstad was elected to the Stortinget in 1965 as representative of the Christian People's Party from Sogn and Fjordane. Here he had his function for 12 years. In his first term he was a member of the Protocol Committee, while from 1969 to 1977 he was a member of the Agricultural Committee. He was particularly concerned with regional policy and transport policy issues, but his background and judgment always led to his views being heard regardless of the subject. Myrstad had a lukewarm and friendly manner, and made many good friends in all the party groups in Stortinget. Myrstad spent a lot of her working time helping individuals, businesses and institutions to solve problems and tasks. Countless therefore were his enquiries to the departments and other state institutions. He combined the practical and the ground with a solid Christian policy of ideas. He was a capable representative of the Christian People's Party and of his state. Knut Myrstad also worked in the Christian People's Party's organization and was among others. member of the Government of the Party. During the negotiations prior to the formation of the Korvald government in 1972, Myrstad was a member of the party's negotiating delegation. This was an expression of his position in the Christian People's Party. We remember Knut Myrstad and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e71	Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e83	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e90	The proposer refers to the closure of post offices and the sale of several of these properties. Furthermore, the proposer clarifies that several of the postal properties to be sold have a central location in cities and agglomerations and will be suitable for non-commercial dwellings for young people at the start-up stage. The proposer correctly describes that, in order to establish reasonable housing for young people in the establishment phase, the lack of suitable and reasonable plots is a major obstacle, both in the major cities and agglomerations. The BA item is a special-law company in which the Council of Transport States as a general meeting takes over the state’s ownership role in the company. The Executive Board of Post BA has the financial responsibility for the company's operations and is responsible for the positive contribution of the services provided to the Post BA's economy. For this reason, the majority of the Committee sees it as natural that this also applies to the management of the company’s assets, such as land and building stock. The item operates to a large extent in a competitive market. As a consequence of this competition, the majority of the Committee understands that Item BA cannot be required to subsidise any buyer of Post BA’s properties. That means that the Item in the sale of properties has to base commercial terms. In addition, I refer to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs' answer to question No. 273, by Meltveit Kleppa, cf. Document No 15:21 for 2000-2001, which states that the Item is positive in contributing to the use of freed properties for young people's dwellings as long as this is consistent with the business interests of the Item. Furthermore, it was informed that Posten BA will, on its own initiative, make known to the relevant municipalities which properties will be offered for sale. The working party believes that questions as to whether the individual property offered for sale is suitable for conversion to dwellings must be based on local and concrete judgement. For the properties where such conversion appears to be appropriate, practical and economic, such applications could normally take priority under the Häsbanken loan and grant schemes for such purposes. Such a procedure is also in line with the defined division of responsibilities and roles of housing policies between countries, municipalities and the private sector. Untraditional solutions, as proposed by the Centre Party here, are very positive, but an overall assessment suggests that the sale of Posten BA's building and land mass as proposed by the proposer is not feasible. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes to reject Document No. 8:80 the proposal by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that the building and plotting stock item BA is offered for sale can be used for non-commercial housing for young people in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e107	Time is running out, and social development is on the go. Also included in this is the Post, where one among others. look at what you own and whether you need to own it in order for the Post Office to function. Many dispatch offices, i.e. post offices, are rationalized away, or you go to the post office in the store. This is also a transition that seems to have worked much better than what was expected of the greatest skeptics. The post office also wants to sell because their building stock is too large in relation to the need, and wants to rent back what they need. For example: Hamar's post office represents this approx. 10 pst. of the building stock and for the post office of Elverum 15 20 pst. of the total building mass. This will give them more efficient and cost-effective operations. At the same time, significant capital is released, as the Post Office buildings are often central business buildings that many might be interested in buying to further develop. With regard to the concrete proposal to extend this building mass to non-commercial dwellings for young people at the start-up stage, the Progress Party will not be involved in such a solution, since the Post must and should place these buildings for sale on commercial terms in order to raise capital for its core business. That you can have a wish that some of the approx. 72 buildings that are advertised are to be sold, purchased for this purpose, are okay, but to determine this politically is wrong. Often these are also buildings that are both structural and, based on their location, best suited for continuing business operations, and not the best for dwellings. Otherwise, I took a phone call today to the company that is selling four post offices in Hedmark County. This concerns properties in Hamar, Tynset, Rena and Elverum, where you expect a sales total of nearly 60 million. kr on the two largest. The representative of the company could tell about a great interest in the properties. What made him somewhat surprised was that the matter was going up in Stortinget today, and that his deadline was 15 June when, i.e. in a dry week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e118	Let me first say that I think it is a pity that this proposal is rejected on such a formalistic basis as that of the vote. It is a matter that everyone in this Chamber should share, that we should try to ensure that young people in the start-up phase access to cheaper dwellings and adequate housing. The intention of the proposal is just to do that. So as mentioned here instead, there are 72 central properties that Post BA is now offering for sale. For a long time, it has been a theme that someone wants this to be taken over and that is the basis for the establishment of non-commercial buildings for young people at the start-up stage. I would like to point out that last July, the municipal minister went out with a rather ambitious approach to a solidarity housing policy. One of the points she presented at that time was precisely ‘The Review of State Land and Price Policy’, where she said in the writing I have: ‘I have taken the initiative with the Minister of Administration to review State land and building mass. The country’s land-price policy will be further explored.’ In addition, I have here a post that the Prime Minister had in the newspaper last autumn, where the topic of ‘Good housing for all’ is also the issue, and where housing policy is of course highlighted as an important part of welfare policy. And here the Prime Minister writes: ‘A joint housing policy requires the State and the municipality to play on a team.’ And that's exactly what I wish you could take more seriously in this case. I also brought with me a letter that the Norwegian Association of Housing Construction wrote to the Prime Minister in March now, in the extension of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's question to the Minister for Municipal Affairs. Now I don't think they've received an answer to this letter, but this is where you show, among other things. from the Norwegian Housing Association to the need and takes concrete account of the sale that is now in front of us in time, from Posten BA of the 72 properties that this is about. I wish that the Storting had taken this matter more seriously and seen the possibilities that lie in such a significant, centrally located housing and land mass as this is all about, and that you could ignore the market mechanisms and the fragmentation that you see also of state activities, and thus have been positive to the proposal by the representative Kleppa. I will then allow myself – and have announced it in the vote – to make a proposal. I would also like to read it – it is on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The government asks the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the building mass of the BA item for sale, together with the associated land, can be used in whole or in part for non-commercial housing for young people in the establishment phase where the local conditions are conducive to this and where the municipalities want such a solution.’; So this is about taking the necessary initiatives to try to make positive progress in this area. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e151	Anne Enger Lahnstein has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e167	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e174	The proposers propose that the Storting should ask the Government to draw up an instruction for the maintenance of buildings owned by the State. The reason for the proposal is that it is very often found that both State-owned and municipal-owned buildings do not receive sufficient maintenance. Furthermore, the proposers have proposed that the Government should step up efforts to separate the user role and the management role of property owned by the State. A unanimous committee indicates that in 1993 the State Housing Scheme was introduced for large parts of state activities. The main purpose of the scheme was to make the use of premises visible and to make a clear distinction between primary and building activities in order to better ensure the preservation of the property stock. In St. prp. No 84 for 1998-99, the principle that the rental of the properties State Buildings manages is to be the cost cover, which means among other things. the rental income shall provide cover for operations and maintenance. A unanimous committee believes this is a good principle, which should be continued, and further indicates that the principle of cost-covering rent was supported by the Stortinget i Innst. S. No 81 for 1999-2000. With regard to the preparation of any instructions for the maintenance procedure, a unanimous committee considers it appropriate to consider it appropriate in the light of the existence of different government property managers. It is therefore time-consuming to draw up an instruction covering all buildings owned by the State. However, the Committee agrees that it must be possible to create systems such as: through the house rental scheme ensures that the buildings are maintained. The introduction of an arrangement separating the administrative role and the user role of all of the country's properties involves the reorganisation of a good number of state property owners. Therefore, the Committee asks the Government to consider alternative forms of organisation that can ensure the proper maintenance of state properties. On this basis, the Committee proposes to the Stortinget that document No. 8:85 for 2000-2001, proposals by the Landfill Representatives Per Sandberg and Per Roar Bredvold on instructions for the maintenance of State-owned buildings and the separation of the administrative and user roles of all State-owned properties are annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e193	The Progress Party is aware that many organisational changes have already been made since 1993 to ensure the maintenance and operational responsibilities of State-owned properties. We also agree that this has in part led to a better overview of some of the state's properties, and we are aware that this will soon apply to most of the state buildings. But we in the Progress Party are of the opinion that there is still a lot of work to be done before the whole country's property is organized in a way that ensures that there is sufficient maintenance to preserve the value. We point out in our remarks in the preamble that the Government must continue to focus on separating the admin role and the user role of all properties. But it is also important that the government might look a little more at this particular aspect of ownership/renting in the country. The safest thing I think is that the state doesn't have the big ownership ratio at all, but largely goes into the leadership role, because it's quite clear that the state has suffered great losses because of the poor maintenance of its properties. And it also brings me to the municipal sector. Although we're not going to treat or say anything about it now, we also see the same problem in county municipalities and municipalities, where maintenance is so bad that the properties fall dramatically in value. And that's a bad way to keep the property stock. What was really the purpose of the proposers was simply to draw up a separate instructions for the maintenance of the country's properties; it still does not exist. My wish was that the government at least looked at that issue and at least had an instruction that went on the maintenance of the state's properties, regardless of whether it was rental or management. So we are pleased that the proposal is annexed to the protocol, and hope that the Council will take this further with an instruction on the maintenance of the state's properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e202	Did Per Sandberg bring up his proposal? The president just heard he gave his approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e205	I'm sorry, President. I am promoting the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e210	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e226	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e233	I only allow myself a very brief article on this matter. St. pp. No 50 mainly presents a collection of interim ministerial decisions on the inclusion and exclusion of posts in various establishments in the State Pension Fund. Probably the last time this kind of decision is presented to the Stortinget for final decision – it may be a bit historical as well. On 1 January of this year, a new legal provision entered into force. The latter entrusts the decision-making authority in these cases to the Ministry. A matter which has aroused a little discussion is whether the Storting should deal with a proposal submitted on time after the law transferring the decision-making authority in such cases to the Ministry has entered into force. This was especially because the only change in the new law compared to the old one is the transfer of power of decision from Stortinget to the Ministry. The Ministry’s justification has been that treatment in the ministry has been carried out in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the previous law, i.e. under the condition of wholesale treatment. I found reason to point out that this has been a theme. Nevertheless, the majority have chosen to take note of the views of the Ministry, have dealt with the proposition in accordance with the previous procedure and have agreed to take a decision in line with the Government’s recommendation. The majority of the Committee has also made a comment on one of the decisions. This concerns the reasons for the decision to include the theologically trained staff at the Evangelical Lutheran Friary in the Pension Fund. Here I refer only to the comments in the setting. Moreover, a minority in the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen, have submitted a note referring to their practices from previous cases of the same type and therefore do not wish to go into the examination of individual cases relating to membership of the State Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and consider this to be adopted. [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e275	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e282	The pension scheme for fishermen is a compulsory early retirement scheme aimed at covering all those who have fish as their main occupation. The scheme was introduced by the Law of 28 June 1957. This would allow fishermen, who have a physically demanding job, to combine their profession with a reduction in work effort between 60 and 67 years of age when part-time retirement from this scheme is paid. The pension ceases when the fisherman reaches the age of 67, receives full disability pension from the population, receives reintroduction or contractual pension – AFP. The pension is financed through a member’s premium and a fee on the turnover of fish. The pension scheme for fishermen is coordinated with the benefits of public interest. A fisherman that's 100 pst. disability before the age of 60, disability pension, and therefore no benefit is paid from the pension scheme for fishermen. This coordination began in 1967 and is the same as for seafarers and forest workers. The scheme has gradually developed into a payment from this pension scheme for all fishermen over 60 years of age who are not disqualified, even though they do not partially slow down their efforts in the profession. This is because it is difficult to measure what is full effort and what is reduced efforts in the profession. Only fishermen who have not earned a full pension can get some of the contributions paid back to the social security fund. In Document No: 8:101 is proposed that all – including those who are disabled before the age of 60 – receive a refund of the premium. This may lead to an increase in the premium paid by fishermen in order to cover increased refunds. In a letter to the Committee, the Government proposes that citizens should consider alternative solutions to the scheme for fishermen if their organisations so wish. In retrospect, the Committee has also been informed that the first meeting between the Ministry and fishermen’s organisations has already been held. It was agreed to set up a sample to review the pension scheme. Thus, the Ministry has already started the work of the majority of the Committee asks the Government to initiate an assessment of the legislation of the pension scheme. Therefore, it seems unnecessary to ask the government to start a work that has already been started. The proposal is an example of someone wanting to enter already open doors. Nevertheless, in the Labour Party, we would stress that this should be a fast-working sample, for fishermen should have a quick decision on these important issues. I bring up the proposal of a minority – the Working Party and the Right – on Document No. 8:106.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e299	The representative of Liv Marit Moland has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e302	The undersigned has promoted one of these Document Nos. The 8-proposals after listening to good talk – and no action – for a little too long. Fishing pensions are known to be a retirement pension up to the retirement age to which fishermen have paid into their working lives. This pension gives them the opportunity to step down the fish. The pension is paid in full in addition to any other labour income. The fishing profession is physically very demanding. About one-third of the fishermen who have earned enough premiums to receive a fishing pension have their pension replaced with disability benefits. However, if the fisherman loses weight, he/she feels that both the entrepreneurial income and the fisherman’s pension are falling away. The Christian People's Party would point out that this is particularly unfair when, as required by law, he has paid the membership premium even after he has the maximum earnings within the scheme, and the scheme is a government-mandatory scheme. The Christian People's Party understands that many experience this as very unfair. We believe that this gives fishermen's pensions a poor social profile and leads to discrimination over work. On this basis, the undersigned have submitted proposals for the non-coordination of fishing pensions in the event of disability for fishermen under 60 years of age. Everyone should be guaranteed an income that is considered reasonable in relation to the loss of income. At our discretion, it's not reasonable that the fisherman's pension falls completely away when you're disapproved. Those who are underprivileged should be guaranteed some benefits from the fishing pension in addition to the disability pension from the social security system. The total amount of the payment should be in proportion to previous income. On this basis, the Christian People's Party and the majority promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the legislation of the Fishermen’s pension scheme in order to find a better and fairer regime for those who have to leave as fishermen before the age of 67 due to disability.’ The Christian People's Party wants to exempt from co-ordination pensions which together become lower than 2G. Representatives Nesvik and Alvheim have promoted a Document No. 8 proposals to repay the premium paid to the pension scheme for fishermen in order to solve the problem by losing the right to a fisherman’s pension. With regard to this proposal, the Christian People's Party believes that it is best for the Government to assess the regulation on fishing pensions in order to find a system that is experienced fairly by all those who have paid the fishing allowance. I have noticed that the Council of State in Ot.prp. No 99, which was approved by the Council of State on 1 June, addresses this issue. I have to mention that it is more than a year since the Council of State said she would look at this matter on the basis of a question-time question. It is striking that the Council of State now addresses this issue after Document No. Eight proposals on fishing pensions. I noticed that the Government of the Proposition finds it difficult to abolish coordination specifically for part of the State-guaranteed social security system, and that the Government, based on the fact that the fishermen are dissatisfied with the fishing pension, will take the initiative to set up a sample to investigate alternative solutions to a more individualised system. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the pension scheme for fishermen be reviewed in order to be perceived as fair by those who are members of the pension scheme. But when the matter has now fallen out as it has, I must be allowed to express a disappointment over the Right. We now had the opportunity to get a majority. And I want to show that Svein Ludvigsen brought this case up in the Questionnaire on 10 May last year and then said as follows: ‘I am very disappointed that the Council of State is so negative to reconsider this, because, as the Council of State was also involved, this system is such that it discriminates against the weakest, namely those who become illiterate. There is a relatively small group in question, but for that reason one should not be negative. It is directly unsolvable. I'm going to give the Council of State and the President an example of this: a fisherman who is 60 years old, but who is so fresh and agitated that he can almost make a full annual income, maybe $200,000-300,000, will get his fisherman's pension of 1.6 G paid from 60 to 67 years, while a fisherman who gets sick and who has to pay attention to disability pension, maybe $100,000 a year, won't get anything left of what he's paid. Then we can't talk about the arrangement being solidarity. Then we have to realize that this is discriminatory.’ I fully agree with the Right here. And after the Council of State has answered, the Right Representative again takes the word and says: "I hear what the Council of State says, and I can only say that the Council of State and I have a different view of what is solidarity, and what is falling down.I record that what we see from the dwindling now is that the weakest groups – the few, and it refers to 65 people, it's talking about 7 million. kr – no payments are made, while the person who can be in more or less full employment can be paid 1,6 G, 100 000 kr per. years. The Council of State must realize that this is directly unsolvable. And when we talk about so few people and so little financial framework, I ask that the Council of State be willing to reconsider this, preferably in consultation with the Minister for Fisheries, so that this group can get a little more solidarity – and then I put my reference to solidarity to the foundation rather than to the Council of State." I am disappointed that the Right has not followed up its beautiful question from 10 May last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e347	Now the representative Karlstrøm has spent half his time referining a passion between the Council of State and Svein Ludvigsen in the Questionnaire, and that is to a large extent interesting. However, in the light of the proposals now in place, and in the light of the fact that the Government has just promoted an out-of-the-box proposal on this issue, we are now choosing to abstain from voting for these proposals, and rather to wait for the treatment and the range that are now to be evaluated. Since 1994, several changes have been made to the fishing pension scheme, including: The retirement age was reduced from 62 to 60 years, and the pension was increased from 1 G in the population to 1.6 G, i.e. Now I'm going to have 78 500 kroner. In the context of these changes, the Member’s premium was increased from DKK 970 per year in 1993 to DKK 1500 in 1994. Now the premium is NOK 3 012 a year, but the pension a fisherman gets paid from 60 to 67 years, is greater than what he paid in the membership premium. About one third of the fishermen who have made enough contributions to receive a fishing pension are now being replaced by a disability pension. Fishermen and their organisations, as has been pointed out here, have raised on several occasions the issue of abolishing the coordination of disability pensions. The issue has been raised in the Grand Duchy in connection with the changes adopted from 1994. The size agreed with the Ministry that no changes should be made to the coordination. Among other things, it's in the Inner East. O. No 82 for 1992–93, page 6. And in Ot.prp. No 24 for 1992-93 the Ministry states: ‘In the view of the Ministry, it will be difficult to simplify the coordination provisions specifically for fishing pensions, in particular in the interests of early retirement schemes for seafarers and forest workers. In addition, the Ministry points out that the disability pension of the people’s pension provides a relatively good coverage for the loss of pensionable income that falls away from complete disability. In addition, the Ministry emphasises that the coordination provisions currently involve a significant burden on the economy of pension funds. Therefore, less co-ordination provisions would make it more difficult to increase self-pension or lead to a significantly higher membership premium than otherwise necessary.’ The Committee, at the time the Consumer and Administrative Committee in Stortinget, delivered its opinion at the Innst. O. No 82 for 1992-93: ‘The Committee agrees with the Ministry that it will be difficult to simplify the coordination provisions specifically for the fishing pension. This, inter alia, for the purposes of the pension schemes for seafarers and forest workers. The Committee therefore supports the Ministry's recommendation that the existing coordination provisions be maintained.» It is difficult to accept proposals to address the coordination principle, as this may have transfer effects to other pensions. On the other hand, it is not appropriate to continue with a scheme that the fishermen themselves are dissatisfied with. The government has now put forward a proposal to raise the issue, and the Ministry will take the initiative to set up a selection to assess alternative solutions for a more individual pension scheme. As I said, the right does not want to vote in favour of the present proposals, but of course it is positive that a pension scheme is now being worked out with which fishermen can see themselves serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e375	First, I would like to say that the Progress Party is pleased that the Stortinget today has this matter promoted by two representatives of the Progress Party, Harald T. Nesvik and John I. Alvheim. This is a matter of great importance to our fishermen. Retirement benefits for fishermen are compulsory early retirement aimed at covering all those who have fish as their main occupation. Retirement benefit was introduced by the Law of 28 June 1957 No. 12 after treatment of Ot.prp. No 46 for 1957, and Innst. O. No VIII for 1957. Fishermen have a physically demanding job, and the fishing allowance shall allow for the phasing-out of work a few years before the provision of a pension from the social security system. The fishing pension is currently provided as a part-time pension between 60 and 67 years. The progression party believes that it must be a misassessment when pensioners do not have the right to a pension from the retirement age of fishermen until after the age of 60. Consequently, in these cases, the pensioners are not entitled to and cannot receive a benefit. If a fisherman becomes 100 pst. before reaching the age of 60, he never obtains the right to benefits from the fishing pension, as if he did not achieve the 750 weeks necessary for entitlement to a pension. Retirement benefits are not intended as a full benefit to the pension needs, but as a benefit to enable fishermen to step down their activities and to continue to maintain their standard of living. So the fisherman's pension has never been meant to cover disability. Therefore, when fishermen are under-pension, the basis for benefits is removed from the pension scheme. When the right to a pension does not occur due to a lack of earnings, the fisherman may recover the amount of the premium paid less the first 75 weeks. It would be logical, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that the same practice was used when the fisherman never attains the right to a pension due to early retirement. In this way, I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the pension scheme for fishermen so that fishermen who are unfit for work before the age of 60 are refunded a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e395	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e398	Retirement benefit for fishermen is a collective and social early retirement scheme that allows fishermen who are not entitled to a second pension to step down their efforts some years before they reach the general retirement age. The fishing pension has been coordinated with the disability pension of the people's rights throughout all years. The size agreed to this end by 1993 at the latest. The reality has been that fishermen who are disabled before the age of 60 or between the age of 60 and 67 are not paid a fishing pension to which they have paid an extra premium, precisely because of the coordination provisions with the public interest. Fishermen who are not disabled receive the fishing allowance and are able to maintain professional activity. It gives the fisherman’s pension a distorted social profile that affects a relatively small group of fishermen. Local fishing teams, such as Skøelv fishing teams from my county, have been involved in the matter and have specifically asked that the fishing pension, which is supposed to be a retirement pension, does not discriminate against working people. They have also pointed out that, from their point of view, the present system is directly unsolvable. There is reason to recall that the fishing profession is physically very demanding, resulting in a relatively large proportion of fishermen becoming recipients of disability pension and thus losing the right to payments from the pension scheme to which they have paid for many years. This seems extra unreasonable given that the pension scheme for fishermen is a public, compulsory scheme. The Central Party has in its programme a formulation that changes the guidelines on fishing pensions so that they do not lapse in the event of disability, as well as the payment of a fishing allowance between 60 and 67 years of age. We therefore very much welcome the proposal by a majority in the Committee that: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the legislation of the Fishermen’s pension scheme in order to find a better and fairer regime for those who have to leave as fishermen before the age of 67 due to disability.’ That the Workers' Party and the Right do not want to support the proposal, but propose that the proposal be annexed to the protocol, I think the industry's practitioners notice with little joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e414	Now the history and effect of the fishing pension are so thoroughly described by the posts that have been held, that I will not go into it. I assume that this is duly documented. What I am a little concerned about, however, is that reference is made to the fact that there is no way of correcting an injustice in one pension scheme because it will trigger requirements for the corresponding creation of injustices in other pension schemes. I think that's a strange argument. What is common to these three mandatory pension schemes is, of course, that one is obliged to pay to them and that they are provided only for a limited period of time. But it still has very unfortunate results when they are to be coordinated with the public interest, so restoring to what we have a common understanding of is fair in one pension scheme, should, of course, trigger the creation of what is perceived as fair, for the other pension schemes. I can therefore not understand that three pension schemes contain the same injustice, should be an argument for not making the scheme more correct. Now the representative Moland says that this proposal presented is ‘to open already open doors’. To that I would like to point out that that door went up after the proposal was submitted, so it is really quite unfair to say that the proposers here will turn open doors. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Coastal Party has also programmed that we want to remove the coordination of disability benefits and social security in the fisheries pension. And I would like to refer to the proposal that I myself have made in connection with this procedure: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose amendments to the fixed-term pension schemes coordinated with the public pension scheme to the detriment of the pensioner, with a view to ensuring that the fixed-term pension can be paid in full irrespective of benefits from the social security system.’ It is true that it is only in these years — from 60 to 67 years old — that what you have paid through your professional activity is paid in order to get out. When one of them coordinates, one of the beneficiaries receives a right that they have been required to pay to get. It may be nothing but unfair. I cannot understand that a large number of people can benefit from such an injustice continuing in these three pension schemes. Now it is regrettable that I register that there is no majority in the Storting to adopt my proposal – that is. The Coastal Party’s proposal – which asks the Government to come back with proposals for changes to resolve the coordination requirement of all three pension schemes. But since my excellent proposal does not get a majority, I see no purpose for it to be voted down. I would therefore like to transform the proposal for a transmission proposal, so that when the Government now opens the door for an assessment of the fishing pension, the door is kept open with such a large opening that the seafarer's pension and the forest worker's allowance also enter for assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e432	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has taken up the proposal she herself referred to, which she has also converted into a transmission proposal. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e438	The development has been based on the fisherman's pension in the form it now has. In the Council of State on 1 June of this year, the Government presented a motion for a resolution proposing amendments to the Law on Retirement for Fishermen. It is proposed to convert the levying of the Member’s premium and to amend administrative provisions. The proposal also announces that the Ministry will take the initiative to set up a selection to explore alternative solutions to the current pension scheme. The pension scheme for fishermen was introduced on 1 January 1958 as a collective and social early retirement scheme. It has been improved several times later. Nevertheless, it is probably time to move from collective social security to a pension scheme where individual fishermen earn individual rights. Conversion of the scheme cannot take place without a thorough investigation and assessment of its consequences by switching to a new approach. The Ministry has repeatedly been in contact with all fishermen’s organisations, including the Fish Archipelago Team. They've essentially taken up three points. One relates to the collection, where those who have not paid have been removed from the number of fishermen – or to the extent of ‘Sheet B’. Here we are now proposing to move on to normal collection methods, so that no one is deprived of the right to pursue a profession, even if they have not paid. Another point that has been raised relates to coordination with the disability benefit – which has been mentioned a great deal today – and a third point concerns the possibility of repayment. The last two points I think it is reasonable that we should continue to evaluate with the parties, so that we can find solutions that fishermen can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e447	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e455	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e462	During the debate, Anne Enger Lahnstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the building mass of the BA item for sale, together with the associated land, can be used in whole or in part for non-commercial housing for young people in the establishment phase where the local conditions are conducive to this and where the municipalities want such a solution.’; An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e486	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e535	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Inger Stolt-Nielsen During the debate, the proposal by Inger Stolt-Nielsen has been turned into a transmission proposal and is then worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for changes to the fixed-term pension schemes which are coordinated with the social security system to the detriment of the pensioner, with a view to ensuring that a defined-term pension can be paid in full irrespective of benefits from the social security system.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the pension scheme for fishermen so that fishermen who are unfit for work before the age of 60 are refunded a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e578	During the debate, Liv Marit Moland put forward a proposal on behalf of Working Parity and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:106 [[2000-2001]] An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposal of the Working Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-06.ana.ud2366e604	There is no record.
