ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e40	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e49	This is a proposal that has been being treated for a long time and to which considerable attention is drawn. A unanimous committee notes that the best way for young people to remain in contact and to have relations with both parents after a break-up is as a general rule. It's a confession that children often lose or lose their relationship with their father after a breakup, and that's really what we're talking about. Developments have not been in line with the 1990s focus on giving young people more contact primarily with their father. Not least, there is a recognition in a society where the growth of many young people does not involve contact with male role models. That is why a unanimous committee also states that men must be more equal to women in relation to child care. We do that because we believe that it is best for the child to get good follow-up from both parents, as the situation was before a breakup. Therefore, we also ask for a review of the Children’s Act to look at the need for changes in order to ensure that the child’s best interests are met. The majority believe that it requires much better and broader treatment than a Document 8 proposal can provide, and therefore asks the Ministry to come back with a separate case. The Committee considers that there should still be full freedom of agreement with regard to where the child is to live and the extent of the arrangements for association. However, the majority also believe that the child’s best interests should be the starting point of the law, and that in most situations it will mean as much association as possible with both parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e65	The debate on this document is closed. The 8 proposal from representatives of the Progress Party engages many, and it is a very important theme that is being raised. A lot of children are attached to a break of life. In most child-sharing cases — matters relating to parental responsibility, community rights and where the child should live — parents themselves come to a voluntary agreement, either on their own or by means of brokers. Fathers today take more care of their children than before. This also has consequences for the exposure when one comes to a child-distribution case. It is important that the positive developments in this area are reflected in the attitudes of auxiliaries and decisions taken by parents. Many of the debates on child eloquence and life crimes have focused on whether one is in favour or against being able to judge the Court of Justice as divided against one of its parents' will. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that there are a number of measures and changes that can be put in place to improve policy in this area without tying it up to whether one is in favour or against being able to judge divided housing against one of the parents' will. In child distribution matters, it is the responsibility of society to ensure that the best interests of the child are the basis for the agreement or decision to be reached. Life crimes are often painful both for children and for adults. Parents are also parents after a break in life. Both parties therefore have both a duty and a right to participate in the care of the child, and are responsible for the child’s maintenance and growth. In most cases, it is best for the child to have the most possible and close contact with both parents. At the same time, it is important to be aware that in some situations it is best for the child to have contact with only one parent. The impact of frequent environmental changes on children is also important to consider when assessing the best solution for the child. Children's needs are not static. They change, among other things. with children's age, personality, maturity and relationships to e.g. friends. It is important that parents see that a solution that was in the best interests of the child at one time may be necessary to change later. Experience shows that parents are more motivated to follow an agreement resulting from a process of negotiation and compromise than a decision they have not had to make. It is therefore important to give strong priority to the actions that can make parents cooperate. It is for a judicial remedy and mediation procedure. It is important that parents come to a decision of which they see themselves as part. A judgment decision is therefore a root cause. The Christian People's Party wants a mandatory guide for all couples with common children. The purpose of the guide is to help parents reach an agreement on these questions for the benefit of the child, to provide parents with information on how to end their life with the least possible harm to their children. It is important that guidance is provided as soon as possible after parents have asked for it. It is necessary to increase resources in this phase of the process. It is a problem that agreements concluded on, among other things. association, by some being sabotaged without consequences. The Christian People's Party believes that agreements concluded under guidance should be coercive, provided that parents want it, and that the counsellor does not disagree with it. Both parents have an obligation to follow the agreement they reach, but it does not work this way in practice for everyone. And this is an area where I hope the Minister for Children and Family will see more concretely. None of the parents should be able to take the children and move to another municipality far away as long as there is no agreement on parental responsibility, the residence of the child and the community arrangement. We don't want to introduce rennet, but that the adults have to talk before you possibly move far away, it eats up the kids. This is actually a big problem for those who are involved. If you have entered into an agreement on a relationship where the child is stuck with one of the parents, many of those with a relationship then experience that the person with the child has a permanent residence with him or her moving to another side of the country without having been taken up by the other of the parents in relation to having a custom agreement related to that situation, or in relation to assessing what is best for the child, whether it is moving with a parent to another side of the country. I believe that if a good thing is to get better solutions in connection with moving and a greater respect for signed agreements, we can help reduce much of the level of conflict that is today. In order to have an agreement, whether it is voluntary or not, and to experience that the other party does not respect it, there are major conflicts that are difficult to deal with for those who stand there without an instrument. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important that we consider prevention, that there is an offer for parents who are in a difficult situation and want help, and that they also have access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e91	Let me first say, like the rapporteur, that this matter has long been ready for consideration. And then I also think it's right for me to point out the short debate we're getting. Of course, I wanted us to have a larger and wider discussion of such a significant issue, regardless of whether we have received signals that the government will later come back with changes in the Children's Act. I sincerely believe that there are two tongues when representatives in a way place great emphasis on the importance and difficulty of this problem area, but at the same time reject the fact that the Storting should be properly treated. There's no argument to say that this is such a heavy area that we need better time to deal with it. This proposal is not new – the problem area is not new. It has been treated several times in Stortinget as well. I found out that the first time this proposal was discussed was actually as far back as 1917. At the time, the countess concluded that the mother should have the child, and so we have not come anymore in 2001. Over the three years I have been dealing with these issues, and during all the time I have devoted to this issue, I have not numbered all the enquiries I have received in this matter – from fathers, mothers, grandparents, children and organisations who have called, sent e-mails and letters on situations that describe the hopeless growth of children due to lack of association with one parent. Of course, the majority of these enquiries are from fathers. I actually got the last message just before I went to the hall today, and it said, "There are thousands of responsible fathers who follow you and thank you for what you have done. Thank you for what you're doing, and good luck today." I would have liked those who sent me messages like this, and who have hopes, not to experience the disappointment they get here today. Tens of thousands of children will be very disappointed today, because the majority of children in this room today do not take the children seriously either – all the tens of thousands of children who have not seen one parent in the last year. So we're talking about 60 000 to 70 000 children who don't get to see their only parent. The debate about shared care, or shared residence, has also turned this time in the wrong direction, and in order to get the debate on the right track, at least with all due respect, one must try to forget the role of parents in this game of children. As other representatives have also pointed out, we must focus on what is best for children, but also on what rights a child has. That is what the proposal points to. Norwegian child law is a clear violation of human rights, as well as of the UN Children's Convention. That shared care or shared residence will create different problems for parents of a practical nature, I believe must be of secondary importance. Nevertheless, I think it is right to mention that in all areas there is a focus on fathers' lack of participation in the care of children, lack of adult role patterns in kindergartens, school, etc. A focus that automatically required the child to spend the same amount of time with both parents after a breakup and divorce should also be a theme here. It's ambiguous, I think, when a person spends a lot of resources on equality with the aim that the woman will conquer more scans – just as it is – but at the same time defend her own nest, that is, care and association with common children. I see that since we've had such a short debate, I have to come back to a three-minute post to finish. In conclusion, I just want to present our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e109	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e112	I sympathise with Per Sandberg, who expresses disappointment at the fact that there was no more extensive debate today, but it is in the light of the fact that the Committee has been waiting for the Government to make proposals in connection with the Children's Act. And even though Sandberg has done a good and thorough job in this matter, it is not enough, at least not for the Right, to go into direct legal proceedings in connection with this matter that is here today. But I think it is important to stress that the Committee has pointed out some areas that are in the right direction, namely: ‘men must be more equal to women in relation to care for their children in order to ensure good contact with both parents; today’s law premises that the children have contact with both parents after a break in their lives’. It is therefore important that the Ministry now looks at the current law functioning according to the policy objectives that apply, whether there is a need for change in order to ensure children’s contact with both parents. Personally, I believe that changes will be necessary, and I welcome the fact that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Department are now following up this with changes in the Children's Act. Now there are notified changes to the law on contributions, and these two matters are very closely linked. I want to stress finally that the parents have full freedom of contract, must be the starting point for the treatment we are going to enter into. Then one must have a law that equates both parties, so that both parties are basically equal in deciding child-distribution matters – hopefully in a way that is a courtesy. Obviously, if one starts with 20 meters of disability, it's hard to hope that one in matters with a high level of conflict will find a memorable solution. But if they're both doing the same thing initially, the incentive, the possibility of making a voluntary agreement that's for the child's best, will be greater. I hope the ministry will come back with changes that also take up, as the Minister for Children and Family said instead, the changes that have occurred in society in the last 20 years, and emphasizes it strongly when we are now going to review the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e126	I would also like to refer to the Committee's comment, which we agree on, which underlines this with the best of the child, and in which the Government is asked to come back with a possible amendment to the Children's Act to ensure that there is a situation where stability, contact with both mother and father and how fundamental security is ensured in the best possible way. Shared care has been discussed a lot in the future, and the proposals of the Progress Party actually state that the law provides for the possibility to be judged in shared care. I believe that there is some misunderstanding out there and going here, because when there are good results of shared care, as it often works today, the context is that in these cases a voluntary agreement has been reached, and thus the level of conflict does not get so high. Then, of course, it is best for the child to have such an arrangement. That, of course, is also the starting point for my position and my comments here. I am afraid, however, that the experience gained so far with voluntary agreements should be drawn up in such a way as to include a proposal by the Progress Party here. Because it is when there is a conflict between parents that this becomes difficult. It is when you don't even agree that non-governmental organisations have to take on the role of following the child from mother to father, precisely because the situation of tradition is so conflict-making that you simply have to have help from outsiders. Therefore, I would like to warn you a little against going too easily into the experience of voluntary agreements and making it a general rule and putting it into the law, as the Progress Party agrees. I noticed that in one of the previous issues we had in Stortinget today, the Council of State stated that she put a lot, a lot – twice “very” – of great value on the commitment of the Progress Party to these matters. That's what worries me a little bit. I am so pleased that these questions are being put on the agenda. It concerns many, it's a lot of commitment, and we're here facing complicated questions that we have to try to solve for the child. But I must say that I have little understanding of this proposal from the Progress Party. I have also registered that very many people who have experience for many years and are experts in these areas are warning against going too lightly into the fact that you should be able to be judged to a shared care. I think that the issue we had earlier today in the Stortingen about the contribution scheme and more fair burden sharing is a much more important issue to address, because I think that there are aspects of the matter that make the level of conflict between the parents increase, and this also affects the child. So I'm enough of those who are considered quite old-fashioned. I think it's important in case of conflict to maintain the child's presence with one of the parents. And I think essentially that the best thing is that Mom takes care of her. But I would also like to stress that I agree that men need to be more equal to women in terms of caring for the child. But I warn you against believing that because you get voluntary agreements of shared care that you see yield good results, it would be a scheme that you should be able to judge in order to reduce the level of conflict. I'm almost startled when I read that, according to the proposals of the Advancement Party, from the child is one year old, the child is to be sentenced to stay with mother for one week and then a week with father. I don't think there can be any good solution for any party – at least not for the child. We must not drive the child's rights and the best of the child in front of us in a matter that is really about economic issues between parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e141	I have noticed that the number of committees believes that there is a need for a more thorough examination of such a proposal on the basis of a better and broader documentation than that available here, and I think that is positive. I fully agree with the proposers that today's society in many areas looks different now than when the Children's Act was passed 20 years ago. We see a trend in which more women participate in work, while fathers carry out care tasks in the home to a much greater extent than in the past. It is important that the law also adapts to these major changes in society. As long as both parents are active carers in a community, they must also be considered as this after a possible breakup. An equivalent parent shall not cease to be an equivalent even if the parents choose to move away from each other. A positive development in recent years is that there are far more unmarried parents who agree to share parental responsibility and far more parents who continue to share parental responsibility after a break in life than was the case in the past. It's not in any area that I as a state council get as many enquiries as in the case of the Children's Act. The Children's Act applies to the most important thing we have, namely our children. Many parents write to me and are deeply disappointed because they no longer have the relationship with their children that they want. Others write and tell about parents who don't care about their children, who cut contact, don't pay contributions, or who do violence. I believe there are two things that must be absolutely central to a good child law. One is for the best interests of the child, and there shall be no raft, and the other is for the freedom of agreement of the parents. For me, ‘best of the child’ means that, as a general rule, it should have good contact with both parents. I believe it is of great importance that the law facilitates extensive cooperation between parents after a break in life. In other words, the law should not be conflict-prone. Parents who can cooperate and see opportunities instead of problems will benefit all children, both those who live with both parents and those who live in divided families. For children, good contact with both parents is important. When fathers take greater responsibility for care, both inside and outside life, this is good for children and mothers. I believe that the Children's Act is an incredibly important law, and I know that it affects and engages a large part of Norway's population. I see the need for a timely law, but I also realize that there are shared opinions about how such a law should be. The Ministry is now working on proposals for amendments to this Act. Any new proposals for amendments need to be sent out to a broad and comprehensive consultation. It's too early to say exactly when we can put forward any proposition for the Storing. However, I would like to stress very strongly that this is a matter for which I am burning, and which I believe we need to present as soon as we can. Finally, I would like to add a comment to the post by the representative Lahnstein. Yes, I commend the commitment of the Advance Party in this field, because I think it is actually healthy for a democracy that we get the different opinions. At this point, the Progress Party, together with representatives from the Workers' Party, has done a thorough and real job, and one has dared to address a problem that has been vulnerable and conflicty. That's what I think we're political opponents sometimes able to give each other credit and pay off for. The representative, Lahnstein, says that she is becoming skeptical of what Per Sandberg says about judging shared care. That's just one of the things we want to go thoroughly into. We have to have this out at the hearing, and we haven't concluded in this field. I just want to stress it: no conclusion has been reached, but we will go into this in a serious and proper way. I would also like to remind you that researchers also have different views on how this should be done. I think I'll stop with those words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e166	Like previous cases today, this is also a matter where the Progress Party is at least trying to break the road. Now it seems that we will also get results here, as the Government signals that it will bring about changes in the Children's Act at least in the direction of what the Progress Party's proposal contains. The challenge here and the important thing, which I want to ask the Council of State, is to see new rules on contributions in the context also with the amendment of the Children's Act. The Children’s Act does not prevent the sharing of care solutions in any way today. What's obstructed is the economy of sharing care for a child. So my question to the Council of State is, when she now signals that we are getting proposals for new rules on contributions early in March, and after what I understand, there may be proposals to amend the law on children in this field during the spring session, on the Council of State when it comes to implementing the new law, the two things look in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e173	As several speakers have pointed out in this debate, the majority of the Committee has now given clear guidance to the Government on the need for changes in the child law. We will present changes to the rules on contributions on our own basis and will return with changes to the law on children at a later stage. It will also be up to the Committee to postpone the examination of the rules on contributions pending changes in the Law on the Rights of the Child. However, I believe that these two matters can be dealt with independently of each other, and hope that the Storting will be dealt with in the course of the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e178	Child distribution, which we are discussing here today, is a very important and also very vulnerable area. A lot of the debate has been about whether you are in favour of or against judging divided housing against one of your parents' wishes. Now I listened to the Council of State saying that one should go quite far into the matter, but I want to allow the Council of State to elaborate a little bit of the two things I was in my post. One thing is that I believe that a lot of today's conflicts are related to a breach of perhaps already concluded agreements, and the private agreements that are concluded, perhaps in peace and reconciliation, are not usually confirmed, so that when the conflict occurs and the one sabotage, there is no sanctioning operation for it. This causes a problem with respect for agreed agreements between parents for the child. The other relates to moving before one has entered into an agreement on parental responsibility and the child's housing and association. One feels that some move to a completely different part of the country, perhaps preventing contact between one of the parents and the children, which in the next session may have consequences when it comes to getting to know each one of the children, togethering arrangements, etc. Does the Council of State see that these two things, combined with the contributions that come, can be grips that can be with and dampen the level of conflict – if we get clearer rules, so that a greater awareness of how to deal with this before one comes up with such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e183	I hope the representative understands that I have no opportunity to conclude on these matters today. But I have listened very carefully to what has been said, and we are now working on these concrete proposals. That's why I think it's going to be very wrong to start shooting at what the government will finally come up with. But as I said, we are working intensively on the matter, and I have listened carefully to what the representative has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e188	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e193	I would like to make a few comments on the contribution by the representative Lahnstein. It is clear that the centre part at all does not find it necessary in any way to gain insight into the problem. It is clear from the post to Lahnstein that she has not read the statement either, she has not read the proposal – or at least she makes it a deliberate attitude not to say that she understands anything. The Progress Party does not propose that any child should be required to stay here for one week and one week there. It is an example to which the proposal refers and which is practiced today by parents. Of course, there should be full freedom of agreement between parents. It is today, and it will still be. The central party and Lahnstein are moving forward in the level of conflict. Now it's the way the parents basically, in 98-99 pst. of the cases, handle them responsibly. But that's about it. 2 pst. which has a conflict. Then it's remarkable that we're going to have a child law that discriminates against 98 pst. by the parents and the kids, because we're going to take into account those who don't show responsibility and create conflict. The representative, Lahnstein, points out that voluntary teams and organisations have now entered the job of accompanying the young from time to time. It's just a confirmation that today's situation is unsustainable, and that today's law is ripe for change. That Lahnstein is very skeptical when the State Council of the Workers' Party is at least trying to suggest that the Advance Party has done a good job in a way, makes me at least not in any way doubt that the Advance Party is on the right track. So it's not a problem today to judge shared care. It is quite possible, but the problem is simply that economic conditions prevent it from being done. It is also the situation for those who have voluntary agreements today. One may have a voluntary agreement for shared care, but one party must take full financial responsibility. And that this proposal from the Progress Party in any way will create a revolution is not right. It's just a slight change in the law that will make it possible for kids to get more care and association with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e202	I've probably read the proposals of the Progress Party, and I think I know what I'm talking about. I want to maintain my scepticism for the amendment proposed here, and as the majority in the Grand Duchy, except for the Progress Party, therefore, rejects. Sandberg points both in the line to the Council of State and now that it is the economy that is the real problem. I also said in my post that I think it is the rules on contributions that have triggered this proposal, and that if you got the rules on contributions, which I also think are unfair, you will let go of these strange changes in the law that I believe the Progress Party stands for. It is clear that it is not surprising to me that Sandberg and the Progress Party and I disagree on the proposal for amendments to the Children's Act. I also said in my post that here I think it's really important to hold on to some things that have been going on for very many years, sail if you're going to take into account a greater degree of equality. I think it's best for the child, if there's a conflict, to be with one of the parents. That one then gradually builds up as much contact as possible with the other, I think that is also an advantage. And I expect that the Council of State, when she says that she has listened to the debate, has also listened to my views, and then we get back to the concrete content of any change in the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e211	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e214	There is no problem for me to maintain my claim that the Central Party and the representative of Lahnstein do not understand what this is about. And that's confirmed by the last post. Of course, economics can turn out to be a conflict, but that can't be an argument for us to maintain a child law that is practiced on the basis that we have a primary parent and a secondary parent. Because that's what the Children's Act is all about. And then I refer to the representative of Greece, who had a good point here: when parents make measles, one of them has a 20-metre head start already, because the Children's Act states that the main care should be with one of the parties. And then there will be no equality in relation to the child's right to have equal relations with their parents. The fact that we are like each other in the law, by the fact that the parents are essentially equal to mediation, must also be an area of interest for the Senterpartiet and Lahnstein. Because it can't be that the Center Party is now sitting on its backs because this is a proposal from the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e221	Anne Enger Lahnstein has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e224	I think in the name of honesty that it is possible to distinguish between not getting the case and being factually in disagreement. And that's what I understand, that here I disagree with the proposals of the Progress Party. Then we have been through a round where it is actually concluded, also in the setting, that this should be assessed by the Government, and that you will come back with any change. Let me use the last few seconds to underline what is the point of this whole debate, namely how we can best secure the child's best. And the best thing for the child, in my opinion, is not just to be a general rule, but it is to be taken into account in all the small and large issues that arise in divorce, life crimes and both the contribution and child distribution issues. It's the best thing for the child this is about, and then we'll have to disagree on how to secure the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e232	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 299]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e246	The bill of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs explains why the Post should be able to receive advance votes in places other than post offices, country postal services and institutions and by so-called ambulatory voice reception. Today it is the case that pre-senting is carried out domestically at post offices, on country postal routes, at the institutions designated by the Post Office, or at the home of sick or disabled persons who are not connected to a country postal route or who are staying at an institution in which the prior consultation takes place. Our electoral system is based on the principle that voting on the election day is the primary way of participating in elections. The preliminary polling is intended as an offer to those who are unable to meet in a polling room on the election day. But there will be no requirement for the electorate to provide a justification for why he or she wants to vote in advance, as it was before the law was amended at this point in 1979. It can now be claimed that the ex-voting mechanism is developing into a form of electoral participation equivalent to voting on the election day. I see that the Committee on Elections, which gave its position to the Ministry on 30 January this year, raises questions as to whether it has now become too easy to vote in advance. Reference is made to a study conducted by Norsk Gallup in 1997, with a total of 33 pst. by those who voted in advance, they replied that they did so in order to save time or because it was more practical. Thus, the postal voice system may help to undermine the principle that voting on the election day is central. Now I leave this question. Nor has the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee commented on the principal aspects of the electoral process in the present position. On the other hand, the Committee has unanimously agreed with the Ministry's proposal that pre-senting should not take place at Post in Store. This is well explained in the proposition. It is also reassuring that almost all the hearing bodies have agreed to this bill. The simple proposal is that the Post may arrange for prior consultation at appropriate municipal premises, e.g.: in libraries, public service offices or the municipality building. It is assumed that safety requirements will of course continue to apply. The Committee has also raised the issue of the disappointing low youth turnout. In this context, we refer to the clear views of the Electoral Committee that prior voting at universities, higher education institutions and higher education institutions can help to get more young people to use their voting rights. Similarly, electoral participation may increase if one also allows for organised voice reception in military outsourcing. The Committee takes the view that the Ministry also includes these questions relating to the implementation of the ex-ante voting in regulations or electoral documents. Otherwise, the Electoral Committee’s setting contains a wide range of very interesting views and also recommendations that may require changes both in the legal text and in regulations, which will be submitted to Odelstinget at the next round. At the very end until I recommend the unanimous setting. But at the same time, I want to give praise to the Post for the way in which the postal tuning has so far been organised. That the turnout increased from 75.8 pst. in 1993 to 78,3 p.m. In 1997, I think it is certainly due to the importance of postal voting. Let's all, regardless of what the election outcome will be, hope that this year's election will be over 80 pst., preferably over 90 pst. That's where it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e272	Several have not asked for the word – and with that optimism we call for the vote. [[See page 299]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e285	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e291	During the debate, Mr Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e397	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e406	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-22-lower.ana.ud2309e415	There is no record.
