ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e38	The representatives Leif Lund and Britt Hildeng, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates, for the Busherud County of Unni Hennum Lie, and for the Moor and the Romsdal County of Ola T. Heggem, have taken the seat. The representatives Mr Konradsen and Mr Per Ove Width have been informed that they are withdrawing the licence applications granted for the period from 4 December to 6 December. – These messages are taken into account. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative, Tore-Arne Stroem, from 4 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Tomas Norvoll, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e82	Tomas Norvoll is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e90	Before case No. 1 is addressed, the President will state that this position has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. - It's been decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e108	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 585]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e124	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e135	It is nice for the Judicial Committee to be able to start the ball here in Stortinget with the technical committee's budgetary procedure. We are presenting a budgetary position that is unanimous on a very large number of points. The Committee's general comments express a high degree of agreement on the main anti-crime strategies. We end up with two main strategies: prevention of crime and rapid response to criminal acts. There are no simple solutions in criminal policy. The search light must focus on the responsibility of individuals for their own actions and on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. Society must set clear limits to acceptable behaviour in the form of correct and rapid reaction. The security and preparedness of society will be strengthened through this budget. The government has put in a package of 140 million. to implement the necessary measures following the cruel terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September. Terrorist attacks highlighted the vulnerability of society and the need for additional efforts to increase security and preparedness. The Committee welcomes the Government's efforts in this area, including: by increasing both POT and civil protection. The picture of crime is increasingly marked by international environments and cross-border crime. It is therefore important to continue work on adapting Norwegian legislation and forms of cooperation to international conditions. In the field of security, crime control and legal security, the police and civil servants' seat, the courts and the criminal services are in a special position. The efforts of the actors in this criminal chain are of great importance both in terms of prevention, in terms of preventing new crime and in relation to the prevention of the victims of crime. 2001 will go back to the year of the adoption of comprehensive organisational reforms in the justice sector. The changes in the structure of the police and the Courts of First Instance and the establishment of the new court administration in Trondheim will be implemented next year. The aim is to improve the efficiency and renewal of the justice sector. The implementation of recently adopted legislative changes related to investigation methods and criminal enforcement could also contribute to a more effective fight against crime. It is important to follow these reforms closely. The focus on increasing the pace of criminal proceedings still needs to be top priority. The faster the response in the event of a crime, the more preventive the reaction will be. Every day that goes before a criminal encounters reaction, judgment and atoning, the chances of society's efforts being effective are weakened. Especially when young people are accused, rapid criminal proceedings are important. The annual report’s proposals for improving the effectiveness of the criminal justice chain point to the fact that the main challenge in dealing with the case is to get rid of the remains of the police lawyers. In order to prevent new crime and relapses, it is not necessary to take too long from criminal offences to criminal convictions, acquittals and rehabilitation. A balanced and flexible supply of resources to the different stages of the criminal procedure is therefore important. The police and officers' seat has been provided with considerable resources in recent years. This has produced notable results. Now we see a tendency to increase pressure on courts and criminal justice. The risk of increased case accumulation and settlement cows is present. Increased resources to the courts and criminal services must be given priority over the next few years. Crime prevention has been introduced through the additional government proposal, providing better opportunities to maintain the high level of activity and capacity utilisation in prisons. I would also like to point out the majority comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that opens up to deploy civil defence and defence facilities to reduce the reconciliation queue. We ask in particular for an assessment of Vardåsen camp at Kongsvinger. I would like to stress that this must be a transitional phase while we are waiting for new prisons to be built. The pressure on the courts is also increasing, especially in Oslo, the accumulation is great. The majority – Right, Advance Party and Christian People’s Party – have therefore found room to set aside 15 million. In addition to the courts, the majority of which should be administered to the Oslo Courts. Prison transport is a major source of expenditure for both police and criminal justice. The same majority request the implementation of a test procedure whereby the transport of catches is put on the market. Such a system must be managed and controlled by the police. Other measures to reduce resource use for captive transport should also be initiated. It is important to release funds so that both police and criminal services have resources that can be deployed on priority tasks. The Committee also addresses many important issues in its joint comments, which the various members of the Committee will gradually come back to. I am very pleased with the cooperation in the Justice Committee. I thank the Committee for its good cooperation, and I would recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e176	I would also like to commend my committee members and the chairperson of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in relation to the work done in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. In fact, the fight against crime deserves as broad a consensus as one had and, to a large extent, in the Committee on Justice in many areas. I'm glad that much of the judicial debate that has been in society in the past, we have sidelined and in many ways made it possible to agree on the broad lines. I am particularly pleased that the Justice Committee has pointed out two reasons for crime that you want to do something about. It is the fight against poverty — and especially the need to reduce the increased disparities we see in society — and the fight against increasing alcohol consumption. In this way, I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, the representative of Greece, what kind of measures the Right in Government is thinking about reducing the differences in Norway in order to reduce crime again, and what kind of measures it is supposed to take to reduce the increasing drug consumption we see, especially in younger age groups. I also have to ask in relation to the representative of Greece, on the question of a balanced resource supply to the criminal chain, what is the reason why the Right and Government parties, who agreed with the Advance Party at the summit of the Committee, have not actually followed up what was written in the vote that the Criminal Service now needed additional resources. What makes you move 50 million? kr on the tamp of the committee treatment, did not find a single crown for criminal care, which was said to be one of the most important things to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e187	There is room for long-term investigations on the basis of the good questions asked by the representative Storberget: What will the Right do to reduce the increased disparities and to limit drug use — and why have we not given more money to criminal services? As far as this is concerned with Poor Norway, there is a problem that Stortinget has had on its agenda for a long time. But I would like to argue that it is only after the new Social Minister has put in place that there has really been a rush in that debate. There are concrete measures going on, and things will be done both within the tax and tax system, within the labour market and in other areas to help those who are in a difficult situation, even in relation to social assistance rates and others where the previous government was at a low level. As far as drug abuse is concerned, I am very concerned about the new drugs that unfortunately thrive far too much in youth settings. I think that in the future we need to focus heavily on the attitudes to drugs, on the attitudes to the lifestyle of which many want to be part, but that it must be possible to operate within those environments without using that type of substance. Alcohol abuse is also a major problem, and the Committee points to this in many common comments. The Great Mountain itself has contributed to these good remarks, so I refer to them. As far as criminal law is concerned, we have, among other things: Notice that it's a pressure. Unlike the Workers' Party, we want to use non-traditional methods to increase access in settlement areas. We point, as I did in my post, to, among other things. Vardåsen camp in Kongsvinger – in Storberget's own county. We point out that it must be possible to use other installations to get this in place. This will take time, but we won't rest. We need to get on with this, and we need to get on with the crime scene.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e198	I want to give tribute to the Right that they are involved in a very thorough and, in my view, correct analysis of what causes crime. In the establishment of a new budget for the justice sector, a unanimous committee notes that the fight against crime cannot be conducted alone within the framework of the justice sector, but requires a comprehensive policy that offers equal opportunities for education and work to all, social protection and small differences between people. Furthermore, we write that the fight against poverty is of particular importance. As I see it, these are obligatory statements that will reverse us if we don't now steer the development in a crime prevention direction, as we have defined it here. Given that the Right is the largest party in the current government, and according to my party leader, it is the party that develops the policy of this government, will I ask the representative of Greece the following question: Does he feel that his party with next year's government budget contributes to a development that produces less crime? Or does the representative of Greece need to pick up some phones to tell his government how the Justice Committee views this, so that at the next crossroads we can get a budget with a slightly larger touch of social profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e207	I think it is interesting that when the Right and the New Government have put the fight against poverty on the agenda, it is the SV and the Labour Party who challenge the Right on this. It just shows that when we have addressed this issue – when we say that we want to combat poverty, when we say that the most important and most social one can do in relation to the budget for the next year – it is to ensure that the level of interest rates goes down, that the individual gets more to walk with, and that the individual has more opportunities to cope. These are important measures. It's important if you're poor or rich. It is important to be able to dispose of more of your own income, it is important to be able to pay off household loans, have the opportunity to obtain a dwelling, etc. The fight against poverty is important, it is right. But the most important thing in terms of crime is that, as the Committee also says, the search must focus on the individual's responsibilities for his own actions. The individual's actions are not something that occurs in a vacuum; they naturally arise as a result of the environment in which each individual grows up. So looking at the fight against crime in a larger perspective, the Right ends up with a hundred percent more. Having a good growth policy, having the opportunity for safe growth conditions, having a cultural offer, having a school offer — at all — having a range of measures aimed at ensuring that children and young people have a safe growing-up environment is perhaps one of the most important issues in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e214	Through the Committee's budgetary process, there has been a crystallization of the search for Community solutions which seem to have been positive. At the same time, there are also some interesting aspects that have been clarified. A challenge that goes from us to the Right and the committee leader is going to be related to what has to do with civil protection. We have seen that the Right has been a party that has at least been close at times to combating crime, but also to our view of civil protection. This time, the Right turns around and opens up so that you can actually facilitate access to community service over military service. It would have been interesting to hear what has led to the Right turn in the attitude to this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e221	I don't think the Right has turned in relation to the view of civil protection. On the contrary, one of the most debated issues of the year related to this budget setting has been the closure of the Hustad camp preschool. Of course, it has been an important measure, but both the previous government and the latter have been committed to closure — in order to transfer the offer in the form of shorter courses — and seminar activities. Of course, the right is – and will remain – a party engaged in the performance of individual protection obligations, and preferably within the military. There's no doubt about it. The right believes that military service is one of the most important Norwegian boys that can participate in, and it is an important part of the formation of the individual. But we respect, of course, that someone makes a different choice, that someone wants to implement a civil protection obligation. Then it's important that we have a civil duty of protection that gives individual opinions and that gives something back to society. I feel that we are agreeing to facilitate through this setting. We are concerned that the civil protection obligation should be longer than the military service. It shall not be easier to undergo a civil service than a military service. There has been a lot of discussion about the term ‘civil protection obligation’. Personally, I still have the impression that what is a duty to protect is in the military. But I accept that the Storting has chosen to change the name of ‘civil protection obligation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e230	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e234	A new government always creates expectations and tensions about which policy line it will take. During the budgetary procedure in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have received some answers. With the Progress Party as a supporting party, we now see the first signs of a clear right-wing triangle in justice policy. While the Progress Party has had little impact on the use of money, it is strikingly important to influence the more structural aspects of justice policy. Keywords are the outsourcing of prisoner transport and signals on the privatisation of prisons. The political divisions in the Stortinget have, until today, been in very many cases between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand, and the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV on the other. Where this separator is currently going, maximum is undefined. But it is clear that the Right has taken the first step internally in the Government in the fight for the content of criminal policy. I am surprised that Left and Justice Minister Dørum, whom I regard as a great protector and defender of the rule of law, will at all times allow for the competitive launching of prisoner transport. The treatment of police officers, including the transport of prisoners, is a public task where strict training, experience and reputation requirements must be imposed on the persons performing this service. I really thought that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party shared this position. The Workers' Party believes that the use of power should not be privatised. The transfer of captive transport to private persons would require private access to the use of power if the person transported opposes it. Such privatisation of power use has important, principled aspects. To me, it seems quite clear that the Government could not have thought specifically through the consequences of such a proposal. Moreover, none of the professional environments concerned has been consulted. The many legal issues this privatisation of power leads me to are not clear either. Here it looks like there's only the need to soften the Progress Party, which has mattered. The Labour Party believes crime is not something we can buy away from just through more money to the police and more stringent prison sentences. We know that the societies that have committed themselves unilaterally on such a line have the highest crime rate. Efforts are needed where everyone needs to contribute — individuals, non-governmental organisations, local and central authorities, and the whole legal system included. Combating poverty is important not only because poverty is an evil in itself but also because big differences between people create a ground for crime. A society with small differences is therefore also a good place in criminal policy. The new government provides for considerable tax relief, health outsourcing and strong growth in the number of private schools — a policy that will lead to greater differences among people in all these areas. I am amazed that parties like the Christian People's Party and the Left will be involved and contribute to such a development. The working party and SV emphasise in our remarks the need for further strengthening of legal assistance. We know from large legal aid surveys that the proportion of the population most in need of social benefits are those who know least about their rights. Thus, the unmet need for legal assistance in the population is largely linked to the legislation aimed at ensuring the cohesion of the differences in society. The Labour Party therefore believes that the provision of legal aid must be part of the welfare system and an important tool to ensure a smoothing of the differences between people. We therefore propose, together with SV, that the Government return to the Stortinget with its own case on free legal assistance where free initial consultation, free legal advice related to public service offices, the role of law students and the extension of the legal aid law's field of coverage are dealt with. This is the measure a majority of the Committee has previously concluded on the occasion of the consideration of the notification of free legal aid. I suppose that not the internal disagreement between the Right on one hand and the Christian People's Party and the Left on the other hand in the processing of the message of free legal aid will paralyze the Government in the further follow-up of this important matter. In the prevention of crime among children and young people, it is essential to facilitate safe growth conditions, equal opportunities for education and good social networks. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to focus on measures that can prevent new crime among children and young people who have already committed criminal acts. In criminal proceedings, priority must be given to cases involving young offenders, so that society's response can be faster than it is today. Several young people commit crimes before they reach the criminal lavalier of 15 years. Society must also react to these young people, primarily through mediation in conflict councils. Such mediation must be based on volunteering. The Workers' Party and SV therefore propose to increase support to the conflict councils by 4 million. kr. In addition, it is necessary to develop a comprehensive strategy for responses to children and young people aged 12 to 18 years, adapted to the nature of the offence and to the life situation of the individual. Freedom from abuse and freedom from fear is fundamental in a welfare society. Violence against women is a violation of human rights. Much has been done in recent years to improve the situation of women at risk of violence. The penalties are tightened, and the compensation for victims of violence has improved. But still a number of unresolved problems remain. Police working methods need to be improved in order to detect and document violence against women. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of the establishment of family violence coordinators in all police districts, thereby gaining top competence in family violence. In order to ensure resources for this work, the Workers' Party and SV propose that 3.2 million be set aside. kr for the establishment of family violence coordinators. In addition, we suggest that we allocate 1.8 million. kr to project Alternative to Violence. Terrorism against the United States on 11 September contributed to a strong escalation of security and preparedness measures in Norway. The Committee endorses overall the increased appropriations proposed by the Government in this area. However, the full overview of the needs of resources, including: the surveillance police have. We therefore fully understand that the Government needs to come back later with the final figures on the needs that exist, related to security and preparedness. In recent years, police have been the budget winner in the justice sector. It seems to have given results. The percentage of information has increased and the time of proceedings has fallen. In addition, the Labour Party hopes that police reform will release resources for more operational police services. We believe that the police's resource needs cannot be solved with more money alone. There is now a need to look at the organisation and how a more effective use can be made of the money that you already have at your disposal. At the same time as the strong commitment we have had to the police in recent years, we are experiencing increased pressure on the courts and the criminal justice system. The accumulation of things and the formation of cows is a growing problem. In order to prevent imbalances in the criminal chain and thus reverse the positive developments we have seen in order to have more rapid criminal proceedings, more money must be given to the courts and the criminal justice system. The working party, together with SV, has therefore proposed that it be set at 8 million. kr more to the courts and 20 million. I'm going to go to the criminal services department. Yesterday I visited prisoners in Ring Kingdom prison. One of the things I got back to Stortinget was something a prisoner said to me. He said that the importance of the content of the settlement and the need for the rehabilitation of prisoners must never be forgotten. We must prevent people who are in prison from becoming repeaters in prisons. And I totally agree with him. As important as the experience of imprisonment as a punishment, it is to prevent prison inmates from becoming repeaters in prisons. The working party therefore wants an even stronger effort to improve the content of the compensation. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e276	Gunn Karin Gjul has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e281	I have to say that it is a little strange to hear the Workers' Party talk about poverty issues now, and that they challenge the Right on it. I can't help but understand that there's a crushing verdict over a nearly continuous Labour Party regime for over 70 years. It is, of course, an objective that increased appropriations to the police should lead to a safer society and that crimes should be exposed and prevented. But it doesn't just help with increased appropriations. It's also very important to look at the possibilities for other alternatives. Sample schemes for the submission of tenders for the carriage of catches are one such example. It will free up considerable time and resources in the police so that they can show up more in the streetscape and use resources to fight crime. When it is claimed that the transport of prisoners carried out by civilians is contrary to legal certainty, it is to turn it upside down. It is when prisoner transport requires so much resources from the police that the resolution and fight against crime are deprived, and when most people feel insecurity in everyday life, that legal certainty is threatened. Another example is the creative grips of the cooperation parties and the Progress Party has done on the detonated capacity of Norwegian prisons. Here we have asked that civil protection and defence facilities be assessed as being used as prisons, and that private operators be allowed to build and hire out for the operation of criminal services. What does the Workers' Party do? Well, they say no, no and no to all of the new alternatives we've come with. But I am not very surprised that the Workers' Party, with its strong and close ties to the trade movement, does not want to look at other possibilities. My question to the Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee is therefore as follows: When will the Labour Party break away from the ties to the LO and be willing to take new action, so that we can meet the major challenges we face in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e297	I am pleased that the representative of Hofstad is very concerned about the problems of poverty, because it is also the Workers' Party. But the difference between a right party and a social democratic party is that we not only want to give alms to those who are the poorest, but that there should be less differences between people. In the budget that was adopted just for a few days back, we don't see exactly that the Right has contributed to the fact that the differences among people have decreased. The most important measure from the Right in the government when they got more money at their disposal was to give more tax relief to those who have more than enough from before. We think it is important to focus both on having a good housing policy – where we now see that the Right is failing – and on having a good education policy. Also there we see that the Right is failing. We see it as important to create as many differences as possible between people and to help make it not just those who need money, who need it, to get a clear distinction between those who are really poor and us. Right-wing talk about combating poverty, and I'm very happy about that. But who is the poorest and the weakest in the judiciary? Well, they're the ones in prison. The working party, together with SV, has clearly signaled that we want to do more for those in prison. If we're going to help people not become criminal repeaters, we're going to have to do something about the content of the ransom. That is why the Workers' Party and the SV have proposed 20 million. I'm going to go to the criminal services department. It is just a start — with the great need that exists in criminal matters — to improve the content of the settlement. So to this with prisoner transport. You can claim – as the representative of Hofstad – that this is old thinking from the Workers' Party. But I'm quite shocked that not also the Right, a party that has previously been concerned with human legal certainty, will now follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e308	It was said that it is important to see and think completely in the criminal case, and I very much agree with that. In that context, the last speech was addressed to the courts. The so-called 8 million increase. kr proposed by the Workers' Party is in reality a net cut of 2 million. kr in relation to the funds invested in the financial position. You can initially ask questions about whether an increase of 8 million. kr is better than what was already in there, which is an increase of 10 million. kr. - But enough about it. The question that I could well imagine answering is: if you're concerned about seeing the whole chain of criminal cases in the context, why haven't you at least seen the court case in the context? For the Workers' Party, not a single penny has been entered in respect of the increase in appropriations to the Law of Lawyers. With full test entitlement, etc. in the appeal proceedings, one would believe that the Workers' Party also saw the need to provide funds to prevent long queues in the law. Because it can't be that you're only interested in reducing the queues to the city and lordship, and does it seem perfectly right that the cases accumulate during the period between the judgment of the lordship and the city law and the treatment of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e317	Where the representative Kukkestad gets those numbers from, and that there is actually a cut from the Workers' Party in the appropriations for the courts, I wonder. For the Workers' Party also supported, together with the rest of the Stortinget, the increase proposed by the Bondevik Government to the courts in relation to the budget. That's right, that spends NOK 1 billion a year on the courts. The fact that the representative Kukkestad is then able to present it as if the difference in whether a person gets to something in the courts or does not get anything in the courts is this 2 million. NOK to the Lawyer's Court, I am very surprised. What's important in this area is that we don't get an imbalance in the criminal case chain. We've had a lot of work to do with the police in recent years. What we're seeing now is that we're getting an imbalance where we're getting an increased pressure on the courts, and where we're getting an increase in the pressure on long queues. It surprises me a little bit that the Progress Party, which, together with the Workers' Party, shares the concern for an imbalance in the criminal chain, does not choose to give more money to the criminal services. In the course of the budgetary procedure we have had in the Committee, we have had some fresh resources at our disposal, which we could have allocated to balance this imbalance. What the Progress Party agrees with is to give even more money to the police and a little more to the courts, but nothing to the criminal authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e324	SV and the Workers' Party have had very good cooperation in this budgetary process, but I regret to say that I am disappointed that the Workers' Party has also decided that the Preschool at Hustad should be closed. During the time that has gone from the Labour Party Government to its budgetary position and until the Justice Committee finally gave its final decision, we have received numerous enquiries from representatives of the Pre-School, employees, the trade union movement, the trustee apparatus of the Civil Protection Officers and from the District of Fränna. They all indicate that closure will have major consequences, of course for the Fränna municipality, which loses 12 jobs, but not least for the development of the content of the civil protection obligation itself. Over the 17 years of pre-school existence, it has made a significant contribution to the development of civil protection obligations. At school, for example, WOKE – the violence and conflict prevention service – has become and has had valuable input into the so-called ByPass facility at Dillingøy. Civilian guardians receive good training on issues such as violence and causes of violence, measures against bullying and crime, young social networks – vulnerability factor, drug use and identity – communication with children and young people, conflict resolution and professional secrecy. I would like to ask the Workers' Party whether they think the assessments that were taken into account for the decision to quit this school were really thought about, and whether it is really believed that a similar development of competence could be carried out further in the future without having to spend extra money. I would like to ask in particular whether it would not seem that it would be real to give the employees of the pre-school, the trustees of the civil guardians and the Fränna municipality a chance to express themselves in advance of such a dramatic decision. Could they not at least have a year to change if it is such that it is considered that the primary school is too poor in content? Or is this just a saving measure from the previous and the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e333	It is true, as the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen said, that the Workers' Party and SV have had an exceptionally good cooperation in this position. It's only in one area our paths are separated, and it's in the matter of preschool at Hustad. However, with regard to civil protection obligations and the issues raised by the representative in relation to the violence prevention measures, both VOKT and ByPass, we very much agree with SV. These measures need to be continued, they need to be improved and they need to be further developed. These measures have proved to be very successful when implemented by civil servants. They help prevent violence in school communities and in youth settings, and we want to continue that. The reason we've been in a position where we're in favour of pre-schooling at Hustad is that we believe that the education you get there is good, but that it's not well-organized to prepare the civil servants for the work they're going to do in their service. That is why we want this money to be used more widely to get more of those who are in line for civil service, to work, and to use funds on schemes such as VOKT and ByPass. We see that there is a problem that there are different arrangements in the different parts of the country – in Møre and Romesdal and northwards there is a system of a preschool, while in South Norway there is only a roll-in program through Dillingøy. That's why we've gone into a solution where we choose to drop out of preschool at Hustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e338	As a newly elected proxy, I will initially be allowed to decorate a little of the committee and the way I have felt that the committee has worked. The willingness of all parties' representatives to find solutions that everyone can stand by has been impressive. The Committee has, as a whole, shown great willingness to take legal responsibility by seeking joint solutions. This has not been the case in all the other political forums in which the undersigned has participated. Overall, this form of work provides inspiration and at the same time provides trust and challenges. The fact that the Committee has sought joint and majority solutions does not mean that there are no large political dividing lines. And so it should be. The Committee shall, by means of its joint comments, inter alia: Note that rapid response and balance in the criminal justice chain are important. Of course, the Progress Party ends up with that. But at the same time it must be a paradox for the parties that have been in government, that today's situation is no better than what is the case. We need more police, the capacity of the courts needs to be increased, and the same is true of criminal justice. How this can be resolved within today's framework is incomprehensible to us in the Progress Party. There may be some people who think that everything can be solved with good words and thoughts, but the reality is that money has to exist. Otherwise, the result is very unsatisfactory. Another area that concerns and challenges the Committee is the increasing criminality of children and young people. Here you have to find a solution. Otherwise, problems will only increase and, with the current framework, the justice sector is at least not able to deal with them. In the past, the defense might have been asked for help, but they may have even bigger problems. Reciprocal crime is also a problem that our society has to deal with. The party of progress is particularly concerned about people who mainly consist of immigrant youth. Many of these do not seem to accept Norwegian laws and regulations. This in turn leads to growing problems, while leading to difficulties for those with a similar background who comply with our legislation. In such cases, we must jointly demonstrate that these attitudes and behaviours are unacceptable and that this will be seriously reduced. Within the police and courts there have been major changes, and these agencies must now show that they appear to be more effective in the coming period. Restructurings need to be reflected in increased production. Released funds as a result of changes in structures must be used to strengthen other areas of justice. The Progress Party has realised that it needs funds to move forward, in other words, we are strengthening the police. More visible police means less crime. The courts are struggling with the aftermath of things, which is unworthy of a rich country like ours. The Progress Party has therefore strengthened the courts by 50 million in its alternative state budget. kr – because it is necessary. Furthermore, we in the Progress Party have also recognised that criminal justice is not satisfactorily developed. This is confirmed by the fact that it says approx. 1,600 people in line waiting to settle separately. Out of respect for these, too, criminal services need to be strengthened, as we have done by adding 84 million. kr to the sector in our alternative state budget. In relation to criminal law, the Progress Party has been a champion for doing things differently than before. In recognition that today's frame does not extend, something has to be done. The Progress Party has therefore been a driver in order to allow private individuals to operate prisons in Norway. We view it as a supplement and not a threat to the existing. And the fact is that, through its framework, because of the lack of political will of the other parties, it does not have the power to take away the need that exists. That is why we believe that others need to be involved and strengthen the scope of operational agreements with criminal justice. The Progress Party also believes that, if capacity is available, it should consider buying settlements abroad. So far, a majority of the committee has only agreed that private individuals should be able to build prisons here to land – a step in the right direction, but unfortunately too short. What is positive, however, is that a majority in the Committee has joined the initiative of the Progress Party to make use of defence and civil protection facilities in order to improve today's capacity. We think that is very positive. Another area where the Committee has expressed a wish for further efforts by the Government is in relation to persons transferred to Section 12 zoning. There are currently different offers in this area and the majority of the Committee has pointed out the need for appropriate and cost-effective operational arrangements to be concluded with private treatment institutions. In this way, I will be allowed to point out that the RI-BO Foundation in Northern Ireland is assisting this particular group in a positive way. These include: by having more actors to develop these offers further. Of course, overall responsibility, both economic and professional, must lie with public authorities, but diversity creates better offers than the monopoly systems do. The Progress Party will therefore follow up this work further in the coming period. The primary thing must be that this group of persons must also be offered compensation that is correct in relation to their level of function. Otherwise it'll be completely wrong. At the same time, there is another essential element, namely that society should also be protected against these people and their criminal behaviour. Unfortunately, the main problem is that the justice sector does not receive the necessary funds, so the Progress Party aims to propose new ways of solving these problems. That is what we have done in relation to the criminal services and the atoning cows. Another challenge is the costs incurred in the context of the capture transport in different contexts. This field is difficult to budget and will therefore be able to give rise to fluctuations. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we believe that the time is now ripe to put out parts of this task. And it's been supported by a majority of the committee. After receiving feedback from, for example: The falcon, we now expect that there will be a lot more focus on the expenditure in this area. On the basis of reports from the Justice Committee, we are looking forward to the Ministry of Justice taking up the case and creating a scheme that allows private companies to compete as well. Avoiding monopolies in the provision of services is a positive contribution, which gives the financially responsible several references to assess the service. The Progress Party has noted with great interest that the Minister of Justice welcomes the changes made by the majority of the Committee. It will therefore be the case that private individuals now have to prove their own claims; that they are actually at least as good professionally, at an advantageous price. As part of the Committee's position, a proposal for such a testing scheme for the transport of catches is proposed. Here, as for those who in the normal sense are incapacitated, the overall professional and financial responsibility shall lie with government authorities. In this way, there will be neat relationships with both public and private bodies competing within the same field. It can often seem that the Norwegian people in many contexts are only a large source of income for the state. In that case, one must be able to ask if the most important thing is the state or the people. As the ombudsman of the people most, my answer will of course be people most. That is why I am very pleased to note that an overall committee has rejected the Bondevik administration's proposal to increase the passport fee, which would put on the Norwegian people a It is positive and sensible, not least given that these fees were increased by 29.3 million. kr for the current year. This is what rejection appears to be both fair and reasonable. Now it's not that politics is necessarily seen as neither fair nor reasonable, but in this case the claim has its merits. Within the rescue service, there are many major challenges in the time ahead. The rescue helicopter service shall be addressed by the Stortinget in spring 2002, and a new radio connection, TETRA, shall be incorporated and developed in such a way that the three emergency states have a common radio connection. In this way, the service should be improved in relation to the current situation, and coordination with a common emergency number will facilitate access to emergency assistance for citizens. Furthermore, the notification of the Vulnerability Committee shall be followed up. As a consequence of what happened in the United States on 11 September, our society is also facing challenges that we saw for a short time as unrealistic in a good and secure society like ours. That's what you might have thought in the United States, too. The fact is that such relationships as the Vulnerability Selection pointed to are precisely the relationship we have to be able to deal with in a given situation. Our advantage is that we have the economy to solve the problems, while our good economy makes us very vulnerable. It's a cross of thought and a fact that we have to live with. A major challenge for the other parties will now be to follow up the commitment of the Progress Party to remedy the malpractice in the criminal chain. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e384	The representative Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e389	‘... crime must be combated by two main strategies: the prevention of crime and the rapid response to criminal acts. In the fight against crime, causes and instruments are complex and complex. There are no simple solutions.» This is how an overall committee starts its general comments in the position of the Judicial Committee. Furthermore, a joint committee points out that the fight against crime requires ‘a comprehensive policy that offers equal opportunities for education and work to all, social protection and small differences between people’. This testifies to new perspectives from the Progress Party, which in the public debate focuses largely on longer and stricter penalties and more police. Of course, the fact that we have a police officer who is able to do his job is important. The police are also doing an important job when it comes to prevention, but that is not enough. It is important to have an active prevention strategy, including limiting access to alcohol and having a strict weapon policy. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party is taking part in the following remark: ‘In order to ensure the safety of all groups of the population, measures aimed at limiting the extent of drug use must be of central importance. Special efforts need to be made to reduce alcohol-related violence and crime.’ I have the following questions to the representative of the Progress Party: How does the Progress Party see this to be followed up in practical policy? Does this mean that the Progress Party has moderated in terms of price of alcohol and in terms of availability of alcohol? And does that mean that the Progress Party in the Municipal Governments will be in favour of a more restrictive bulwark policy than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e404	I thank you for the challenge of the representative of the Workers' Party. The fact is, the Progress Party is concerned about, is not the use of drugs, but the abuse of drugs. There's a shade that I think you should be very conscious. What we are concerned about is that there should be regulations, guidelines, which are clear and clear, and which must, of course, be respected. That's the boss. Otherwise, people have a reasonable relationship with drugs, and we think that we are a matter for the individual – one must walk in itself and figure it out. What the public has a responsibility for is to ensure that the laws, regulations and guidelines adopted at all times are complied with. That's the boss. It's been our policy, and it's still going to be our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e411	From the Christian People's Party and the Right, we are pleased that we have received the support of the Advance Party and support for the main features of the 2002 Justice budget. We are pleased with the consensus and cooperation shown by the Progress Party. However, we have agreed on some important structural measures, including: a sampling scheme for the outsourcing of the transport of catches. In terms of criminal law and the fight against cows, we have agreed on, among other things. the possibility for private individuals to build, rebuild and lease prisons in addition to the use of civil protection facilities and, where appropriate, defence facilities to reduce settlement queues. However, I have a few questions to the representative of the Progress Party in clarifying the position of his party. Where in the rest of the world should Norway buy settlements? And how should this be organised, if any? The Progress Party has been very keen to allow private individuals to operate Norwegian prisons. In addition, I ask, how is society going to exercise its powers when private prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e420	Once again, I thank you for the challenge and will be able to clarify something here from the pulpit. When it comes to the question of where to buy restitution sites, I assume that it will not be right for the Storting and the Judicial Committee to govern the government in detail. I expect the government itself to have a word in the team to evaluate this. But that we say something about the possibilities and open it up, I find it completely natural. I expect that the representative from the Right will also find it reasonable, as he has actually supported it himself. In terms of private ability to operate prisons, we have no concerns there either. In fact, if it were to end with a majority who would open it, a delegation regulation must be made, according to which the authority given to them by private individuals must be graduated. what you have at forced insertion. There is a system that also takes care of people with different disorders that cannot decide for themselves, where the public can go in and take over the management of offers to which they themselves are unable to say yes or no. Without comparison, it could also be in this system that a delegation regulation is created to ensure that the public interest is also safeguarded in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e431	I am in particular tempted to ask if the Progress Party with the attitude we have given, and where we have written on an analysis where the fight against poverty and social differences is at the heart, has now changed its attitude on this – but I will leave it! Instead, I would like to ask the representative Ellingen what is the reason his party has let go of writing on the comment of the Committee majority that one is pleased that in these days there is a proposal for a law for the police to remove violent people from their homes. Is it true that the Progress Party is sorry that this proposal is being consulted? Or does the party have other proposals for rapid reaction to this relatively large proportion of the population, which at the same time preserves the ability of women and children to stay at home so that they do not have to travel to a crisis centre? For information, I can mention that for these women and children, it is often seen as an extra assault that those who have to move, and not the one who has caused the crisis, as well as the children involved, are being demolished from their immediate environment. In addition, they often feel ashamed to have to explain to their friends why they, for example: take a taxi or bus to school instead of going with their friends as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e440	I thank you for a new challenge, from SV. Of course, for the Progress Party, it will be a general objective for us to have a comprehensive policy. Of course, it also includes a fight against poverty. It was supposed to be just a lack, because poverty is not a good solution. People who are poor, of course, have the overall goal of getting out of it, and we're going to back that up. When it comes to the home of violent people, it's quite correct that we wrote ourselves out of that note. That's because it probably has a larger perspective than that. For us, it would be a paradox if someone engaged in a couple relationship, that the person who performs actions that should not, of course, have to move out of his own home – we think that's too simple. Before we say yes or no to the home, we have to see the full content of it. With regard to the efforts of the Progress Party in relation to criminal policy, we are concerned with the position of the victim. But we find that it also has to be that the parties at least have to be viewed in relation to who is to be thrown out of which home. Of course, with regard to the Progress Party's efforts towards women who are subjected to violence, we must continue to support this. Among other things, we have took the initiative to ask the Minister of Justice about mobile violence alarms, so I feel that the Progress Party is reasonably safe here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e456	In 1995, I worked as a freelance journalist in my home country of Vestfold. Then I helped cover a case where we met a woman who lives on code 6 with her two children, in hiding from a violent man. Since that time I have met many women who have been subjected to gender-specific violence and persecution, and some of them have become my close friends. One of these women I have thought particularly much of, for she was a wonderfully warm and wise lady. She had been subjected to a rape and had spent ten years of her life working out the experience so much that she was able to undress in front of a man again. This woman, like so many others, spent a long time being believed. After a party, she had brought the rapist home and had therefore, in many's eyes, "even asked for it." At last, however, he was convicted, after several other women reported it together to the man for similar relationships. After the atonement he was sent back to his homeland, right in captivity to other women, who did not have the prerequisites to know what kind of man this was. She said to me, "How can we accept that he is now being released on new women just because these women are not Norwegian?" I was very surprised that she, who had had destroyed a marriage and ten years of her life, could think in this way. And I can assure you that it wasn't for the rapist she said this, but for the care of women in a country with less legal protection for victims of rape than we have, and with an even worse treatment for rapists. For SV, it is essential that women, regardless of nationality, should be entitled to protection against abuse. For us, it is a great cross of thought that abuses against other countries' women also take place under the indirect involvement of the Norwegian state. Unfortunately, we have many examples of this, as well as the above. Among other things, through the three-year rule, women are forced to remain married to violent husbands of fear of being sent back to their home country, and women who seek self-employment on this very basis are suspected and have great difficulties in being believed, because here they fear a rush of so-called unworthy needy – women who will claim that they are being abused, to sneak into one of the richest countries in the world. I don't know. I just know that in the meantime, the crisis centres are being filled with women who have come here through reunification, or who have been brought here by a Norwegian man, preferably via one of the many contact offices that are now experiencing their great golden age. I wonder how high this is on the agenda of the Norwegian authorities. According to a report by the Swedish State Witness Maria Bexelius, women seeking protection in Sweden must prove their credibility two and a half times as good as men in the same situation. It might have been interesting to see a similar analysis of Norwegian foreign practices. The problem is, among other things: that there is not enough statistics to allow such a thing to happen — perhaps an expression that this is not a priority area. I will not demand an answer from the Minister of Justice, as I am fully aware that this is not within his jurisdiction. I am content to ask that the Minister of Justice, as I see it as a man with a desire to help women who are subjected to gender-specific persecution, put this on the agenda within the Government. As a member of the Judicial Committee, with the fight against violence against women as the main priority, I cannot help but take foreign women into account, especially when many of these women's unfortunate situations are partly the result of Norwegian policies and practices. What about the credibility and protection of Norwegian women? Since we have a Minister of Justice who is concerned with the stories of individuals, I will pass on three. The first one is about a woman that I met a few years ago. She was raped on her way home one night in the Oslo Centre. It was an assault violence, contrary to what is most often the case, namely that the rapist is an acquaintance of the victim. This woman reported the relationship, but was recommended to withdraw the report as it turned out that the alleged rapist got one of the country's most famous lawyers as his defender. She was clearly told that any court case would feel like a new offense, that her credibility would be taken apart, and that she as a single mother and happy in a party would stand ribbed back. Over the years I have worked on this topic, I have experienced many who have been in the same situation. I can also refer to the report by the Court of Justice on rape and morality, which was published by the Children's Ombudsman and the Equality Centre earlier this year. SV believes that efforts are needed throughout the criminal chain to increase the competence of police and prosecution authorities in this area, and we want to strengthen the position of aid lawyers. It is not acceptable that attitudes we have used for years to combat, because they have helped to keep women trapped in a stereotype and traditional notion of how proper women behave, live on within parts of the judiciary. SV will defend fundamental principles of the rule of law, but we do not accept that men go free or get a milder punishment because women have behaved in a challenging way, drank alcohol or had too many partners. Such attitudes are totally unacceptable. The second story is about a woman I met just a short time ago. She lives by code 6, or she says herself, "I don't exist." She has two daughters and has moved three times in the last six months. The daughters feel that they are living in a prison, they cannot give their phone numbers to anyone or bring their girlfriends home. This woman must live on social security since she cannot afford to stay long enough in one place for her to work. Her problem is, among other things, that the auxiliary services fail them, that the social services do not want to spend money since they do not have a fixed address, and that there is a lack of knowledge about the situation of these women. What is the situation of these women? They are constantly fleeing from a violent man they have had a close and dear relationship to once. Several of them have stories with over 50 fake reviews, and they say that they have been recommended by the local police to move, since the police themselves cannot guarantee their safety. Many of these women have major mental problems and stories of attempted suicide. The children feel that no one is able to protect them, at least their own mother. As this special woman said when I met her, ‘I have problems singing ‘Yes, we love’ on 17 May. I don't love Norway right now». – This woman is not of foreign cultural origin for information purposes. I record that the department is now working on measures that are in favour of changing the number and identity of the person. So is Norway's response to these women and their children that we can do nothing about the cause of their problems, that we accept the violence and threats of these men, and that the children must find themselves in the name of Nina or Trude instead of their real names? Is this what we can do for them? SV believes that it does not keep focusing on violent alarms or on a restraining order. We demand, or at least wish, an independent review of the affairs of all the women and children living in hiding in Norway. We can't accept that failure statement because the solution to their problems is to hide them even better. And I have to ask, is it not in itself a proof that something is going on, that the police recommend people to flee, or when women choose to let their children live as in a prison, constantly on the run without being able to settle down anywhere? Do we have such little faith in these women that we choose to believe that they simply don't care about the best of their own children, or as the Association 2 Parents inside claim, that they do it to sabotage men's right to coexist? The third woman I'd like to tell you about today, I happened to get up in one of Oslo's suburbs. I was on my way up the stairs visiting some friends when I heard a terrible life and then a man came out of an apartment. Behind him was a woman and her child and straw. I contacted the police and stayed with the woman and her son until they arrived. I decided to stay there while the police took up an explanation, to see how the police handle this. And I have to say that I was deeply shocked by what happened then, or rather not. Although the inventory of the apartment was broken, no pictures were taken. The police did not take out a public charge, despite the fact that the man had been in the apartment the special day to threaten the woman from reporting previous rape episodes. The man had his own key to the apartment, and this was not confiscated. He was also not brought in there and then, despite the fact that the police were given the man's address of residence. And when I called on-call an adjutant, the man who made the decision that nothing was to be done here, I just got to talk to him after explaining that I am a member of the Justice Committee at Stortinget – a very embarrassing affair. This on-call adjutant explained his decisions by referring to three factors: firstly, that there had been only material damage in the apartment, except for a small coal in the back of the woman's head. Clearly, that little boy was terrified of Mom’s dying was of less interest. Second, he referred to the Oslo police's lack of resources, and said that if I had known how much housework there is in Oslo, I would not have demanded more of him, because in that case the police could not use their resources on everything else they were charged with. Third, he indicated that, after all, it could be the woman's potential provocations that had led to the violent episode of the apartment. For me, this showed that there is not only a lack of knowledge and resources that makes many women feel that they are not getting help, but also attitudes – attitudes that are based on women being provoked, so they are being beaten. That women can even have a responsibility themselves since they have, after all, chosen the husband themselves, we were given, among other things. hearing from a Westerner earlier this year, a position the Progress Party was also quick to support, not least because this gentleman indicated that many of these men are Muslims. It's often with amazement I see the violent commitment being shown when the visible violence in the street is mentioned, because I see that so much of the private violence gets to continue in the hidden without the same visible involvement. I think, have we not yet understood that much of the so-called public violence is just a result of the violence that is taking place in people's private homes? Are there still some old-fashioned attitudes at the bottom that are about private violence being private, and that women in many ways have to thank themselves? I am pleased that the Justice Committee collectively expresses in a note that the debate on justice must be based on the research we have access to, and hope that this will result in an increased focus on the causes of violence. Because we can give the police so much resources we just heel, but it helps so sadly little as long as we produce a society that gives violence and other crime new nourishment, or as long as we don't have the ability to put in place quick and correct responses that cause people to start changing. I am therefore both happy and sad now that we have given up our position – happy because we have received a much better analysis of the causes of violence, and because we have at all been given something about the gender-specific violence suffered by women and children. I am also pleased because we have been told that the debate needs to focus more on how we can prevent crime from occurring and how we can prevent the high proportion of repeaters in Norwegian prisons. But I'm also sad, because I think we're too little following this up in practice -- I see that we still end up thinking a lot of nice things about a society with little differences, a commitment to school and education, a better community economy, more cheap homes, etc., while we end up doing the exact opposite, because we have the majority we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e491	The representative Thorkildsen showed in the post she just held, a burning and strong commitment to the legal certainty of women, and I share that with her. I think there are a lot of women who are struggling today to have a violent threat over them, who will be proud to have such a spokeswoman as the representative of Thorkildsen in this big bang. We know that a lot of girls are afraid to go out in the evenings, because they're afraid to be attacked, and it reduces their freedom of movement and, not least, limits and destroys their quality of life. We also know that very many women living in relationships fear violence from their partner, and this has been well described by the representative Thorkildsen in his post. We know that a number of measures have been taken in recent years since the Stortinget focused on this with women and violence. An action plan to combat violence against women has been put in place, penalties have been tightened and compensation for victims has been improved, and it has been increased. But the main problem is that men beat. We haven't found a good solution to that problem, and my challenge to the representative Thorkildsen is whether she's been thinking about how to solve the problem of men beating, how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e500	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Gjul's representative for his praise. She's absolutely right that we have to try to figure out how we can prevent these men from using violence. One possible measure is Alternative to Violence with its division in Oslo, which the Workers' Party and SV tried to grant money for in our alternative budget proposal, because we believe that we need to reintroduce the fissure layer for which the Municipality of Oslo and the State once stood, and which meant that men outside the Municipality of Oslo could also get it for help with their violence problems. What was tragic when the state withdrew from that project was that the Municipality of Oslo demanded that only the citizens of Oslo should be allowed to avail themselves of the offer, and for my part, which comes from Westfold, this meant that no men from Westfold could any longer be helped with their problems of violence, including violence. Because the family protection offices are unable to deal with it, and the psychiatry is down in the knee, as we know. Fifty Akershus families lost the offer they had. We need to have a targeted effort that goes on how we can help those who have a violent problem, whether they're convicted of it, and then it's under the criminal justice system, or they're not convicted for it, but sail seek help. And I want to ask the representatives of the other parties to agree that there is going to be a lift in this particular area. I was interviewed by a journalist once who asked what is most important: Treatment for the victims or for the perpetrators? That, I think, is a ridiculous question. You can't set it up against each other, because an attacker who doesn't get help will find new victims next time. So it's going to be turning the whole thing upside down. We have to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e511	The representative from SV made a long and good contribution where violence was described as something men do against women. Now it's probably that violence can be physically and psychologically more than that. Thorkildsen said in an earlier line change that she wanted an assessment of the home and the view of the Progress Party when it was this to cast men out of her homes. I could imagine asking the question in a slightly different way. If you buy an apartment and pay for it, it moves a woman into this apartment from the point of view of SV and you get a violent episode or more, which I will in no way defend. In any case, do you think it is right that the owner of the apartment should move out? Another issue that SV is very concerned about is the reduced legitimacy of SEFO. This bottoms out that there are too few of the cases reported that lead to a conviction. So that means, as I understand it, that SV evaluates the success of an organ according to how many times it is judged, or it becomes convictions. Or could it actually be that few convictions mean that the Norwegian police are not as raw and violent as SV sometimes gives the impression? And does SV consider it most important that matters are resolved regardless of whether or not something criminal has been committed? Or is it only sentences of police officers themselves that are a criterion as to whether SEFO is a functioning body or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e521	If the representative Kukkestad had followed properly, he would have realized that I did not define violence as something going on between the sexes, or from a man and towards a woman. What I wanted was an equal commitment to the violence that is taking place inside people's private homes, as to the person going out on the street. And I hope, in fact, that the Progress Party right here is one of those who feels hit. When the representative, Kukkestad, says that we have to sort of think about private property rights, it reminds me of a journalist who interviewed me about this proposal to remove the violent person from his home, which is an SV proposal. He asked if it was so to understand that SV no longer cares about private ownership. Then I pointed to the Orderud case, and said it's not like we're going to accept that people are going to live or inherit property no matter what these people have done. Then he asked if it was now such that Thorkildsen equates killing on four people that some women are just being beaten a little. That's not how to understand. What's the point of this is that we have to get a quick response. A quick reaction may be that the man is removed from his home for example for ten days, as one has it in some other country, so that he realizes that what he is doing, is not acceptable, and that it happens in his home, does not make it more acceptable. It's just to break with this, that this violence is kind of private, that it's something that only affects them because it happens inside their home and not on the street. So to SEFO – now I see that I have a very bad time. But what we're pointing to is not that we have to have more judges just because we believe or suspect that all these police officers who are being reported are guilty, but because we believe that SEFO's legitimacy is weakened when it seems that the police are largely investigating themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e532	I will commend the representative of Thorkildsen for her commitment to the victims of the rape. The Christian People's Party has absolutely parallel views on care, not least from the point of view of legal certainty for the victims of rape, and supports very much of this long article that went on that theme. I have noticed that SV, together with the Workers' Party in a note on rehabilitation and drug care, sees non-governmental organisations in that context positively. But at the same time, one is concerned about the emergence of religious organizations' offerings and engagement. I feel this as an opposite. I do see religious organizations in this sense as Christian organizations, and that they are also called volunteers, so these two statements will stand against each other. I also wonder what it is about Christian organizations that can give less freedom of choice to the users, and I ask the representative Thorkildsen to document this or substantiate this claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e541	I could imagine reading this comment. I'm really glad that the representative Holstad raised this question, because that's one of the issues we had in the committee. Here's what it says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left believe that voluntary efforts in the areas of rehabilitation and care are positive. However, these members wish to review the criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds and the follow-up of projects under the auspices of non-governmental organisations. These members are concerned that, in sum, the emergence of religious offerings can give users less freedom of choice, and that public responsibility is eroded and weakened by the use of funds that could have been used to strengthen existing offers for the creation of new ones.» I don't understand what's so threatening about what we express here. What we're saying is just that it can weaken public responsibility. We're not sure about it, but we have a suspicion, and we want to know if that's the case. I can't believe it's going to be so important in a way to embrace or – I kept saying – hugging the religious organizations so much that you're not able or willing to try to find out if this is a qualitatively good offer, and whether it's the way that some of the people who need help get offers they really don't want, because the emergence of religious organizations is so formidable that freedom of choice just gets smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e551	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e554	It is worrying that childhood and juvenile delinquency is increasing. The number of targets between 15 and 17 years of age has increased relatively considerably, and it appears that more and more people have started to develop prematurely before the age of 15. There may be a link between faster prosecution decisions and more targeted statistical ones, but increasing juvenile and juvenile delinquency is real. The Christian People's Party claims that children and young people need clear boundaries. We believe that this is in the best interests of children and young people. Research has clearly shown that children and young people who do not experience clear boundaries are doing worse than those who are faced with clear borders. Limitation for children and young people is primarily parental responsibility, but society must also have the means to mark the boundaries. The Christian People's Party believes that special efforts need to be made to reduce alcohol-related violence and crime. The relationship between drug use, violence and crime is well documented. In studies of domestic violence, alcohol influence is recorded as an important explanation factor. Women who have been subjected to serious violence by their current or former spouse even mention alcohol as their main explanation of their violence. Much suggests that the type of violence referred to here is covered by great darkness. Many children grow up in homes where fear of violence is temporarily replaced by the struggle to maintain the facade and loyalty of their parents. In order to ensure safety for all groups of the population, measures aimed at limiting the extent of drug use need to be given greater importance. The criminal justice court must be effective at all levels. It is important that society reacts to criminal acts and that responses come quickly. The measurement of penalties shall reflect the gravity of the action, but also take individual considerations into account. As a rule, the Criminal Code provides a sufficient penalty framework for criminal offences. However, the penalty system is not used well enough. The Christian People's Party has been working for a long time to increase the penalties for crimes targeting individuals, such as acts of violence and sexual assault. Crimes that harm individuals shall not be punished more easily than economic crimes. Matters of sexual assault, including rape, become low priorities, which in turn results in few cases being resolved and brought to justice. The Christian People's Party believes that such matters must be given higher status and priority by police and prosecution authorities, while at the same time increasing their competence. It is a problem for legal certainty that so many rape cases are ordered because of the position of the witness. The Christian People's Party believes it must be criminal to buy sexual services. The attitude-building work on pornography and prostitution needs to be intensified. Organisations that give prostitutes the opportunity for a better life need to be strengthened. The fundamental principles and international obligations of the rule of law of the Member State of law shall be respected in all criminal law matters. In this respect, it is particularly important to limit the use of care, including: through the introduction of time-limit mechanisms. New research methods for which technological development provides opportunities also need to be assessed in the light of this, and to be carried out within the framework of our human rights obligations. The assessment may vary according to the gravity and extent of the action. In order to reduce the nesting queue, the nesting capacity should be extended. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the majority of the Committee who wish to expand their prison capacity by providing private facilities for building/remodeling and renting out to the operation of criminal services. It is essential that the buildings are designed in accordance with the specifications of the authorities in order to ensure set targets in the implementation of penalties. The majority of the Committee therefore requests the Government, in a transitional phase, to consider the possibility of using civil protection facilities and, where appropriate, defence facilities to reduce the strike queue. Where the camp in Kongsvinger is considered in particular. Very many repeaters in Norwegian prisons have a drug problem. External treatment of prisoners with addiction problems is an important contribution to criminal justice. Voluntary organisations and employees should be actively involved and supported by State resources. The Christian People's Party points out that one example is the project "New Life" at Modum, which can be a supplement in this context. We therefore ask the Ministry to evaluate this and similar projects in view of possible support. On 1 December, the deadline expired to apply for compensation for residence in Japanese prison camps during the Second World War. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Justice has indicated that the deadline for seeking compensation is extended by December. I agree with the Dørum Council when he says to the newspaper Our Country yesterday that the deadline must be reasonable. The scheme is meant to be a handshake to those who were put in captivity, and their relatives. St.meld. No 44 for 2000-2001, on the rescue helicopter service in the future, is under consideration in the Committee. The central message is the proposal to establish a shorter response time on the rescue helicopters bases. Having equipment on standby is of little help if it cannot be used when needed and used in time; especially winter time with low sea temperatures means a few minutes from or to life or death for those in the sea waiting for rescue. I also look forward to a new big message on social security and preparedness. The Ministry of Justice will see this work in the context of the report of the Vulnerability Committee and the Government's Coastal Security and Preparedness Action Plan. Following the terrorist actions in the United States on 11 September, it is necessary to look at the organisation of all rescue and preparedness work in relation to the concepts of peace, crisis and war. We see it as important that there has been formal cooperation between the three emergency states, and started a project to explore the technological, organisational and economic implications of the possible introduction of a common radio link for the emergency and emergency situations based on the TETRA standard. Today's analogue radio connection used by emergency buildings and other emergency stations must be replaced within five to ten years. In the investigation project started in the Trondheim area last autumn, TETRA radios are used to replace old analogue radio connections. Selecting the full replacement of today's analogue systems with TETRA-connected within four to six years will require investments of the amount of DKK 3-4 billion. I cannot see any other possibilities today to provide a fully-fledged network for our emergencies than the qualities of a TETRA connection. Rarely has a Document No. Eight proposals proved to be as victorious as the representative Roy N. Wetterstad promoted in 1995 on the establishment of a permanent helicopter service in the police. An internal working group in the Ministry was instructed to examine the issue more closely, but concluded in the autumn of 1996 that there was no need to carry out a specific pilot project. On the other hand, the size felt that it was necessary to launch a two-year pilot project of helicopter service in the police department during 1997. Although the evaluation of the pilot project at most points was positive, the Ministry concluded in 1999 that it would continue the helicopter lease-in scheme if necessary. In the same year, the overall size of the department asked for a new assessment with the food-benefit effect in focus, and at the same time assessing this against preparedness and prevention of its own helicopter service in the police. Once again, it seems that an investigation was carried out in advance. One wanted to stick to the old rental scheme if necessary. A total accumulation of baths last year in the department on its own matter consider different alternatives to meet police needs for helicopter support. St.meld. No 51 for 2000-2001, police helicopters are now under consideration in the Committee. It is now Storting's job during the spring session to close this case that started in this house seven years ago. Look to Norway is called in a well-known World War I quotation. But on this matter, we should rather look at other nations in order to learn something about following developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e595	When the Christian People's Party and the Left last time were in government together, the two parties were very concerned about a project they called 'Simplify Norway'. In this setting, they merge in order to tender for catch transport. I find it hard to see that this can be easier – for: In that case, the tender specifications contained in the tender documents must be specified, the tenders received must be read and decided on in competition, all of which must be done by some employees. The fact that the transport is to be carried out in accordance with the specifications shall be checked by the police. Then one is going to send invoices, another is going to make sure that the payments are made, and a third is going to check that the country's money is spent on the right company, and that the company has done it correctly, that the company sends the accounts correctly, and that the tax is paid. Is this simplification? I wonder if the Christian People's Party can give me an answer as to whether this is not bureaucratic either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e604	The representative Rui has obviously been concerned about how the Christian People's Party's policy is going to be in this area. This hasn't been tried that far. But we want from an overall assessment to support a test of this. And we believe that this can be – over time – a relief for the functions of the police in this connection. In the case of the representative, Rui, the issue of time use and resource use in connection with the procurement process, no specification is made for each and every round, for each and every prisoner. You make a concept and you run a round, and you probably find that this can be used several times, so I don't share the concern that Rui has at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e613	I must be allowed to thank the representative, Holstad, for a clearly committed relationship with helicopter operations, which is clearly going to continue beyond. At least he must be supported by the Progress Party. On the other hand, there is another aspect of the attitude that concerns us more, and that concerns the attitude towards crime. We have now recorded that the Christian People's Party supports the use of community punishment and open reconciliation more than is a fact today. And then we wonder if this is a turn, so there's going to be a policy that goes more to turning the other cheek. Our concern is whether this may not be a form of decriminalisation of those who commit criminal acts. Is not the representative of the Christian People's Party concerned about the signal effect and the consequence of a majority comment by the Judicial Committee, on which the Christian People's Party agrees, that the possibilities now exist for a milder form of punishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e620	As an individual, I guess I hope and believe that I can always turn the other cheek. Whether society can do it in any context is more doubtful. I don't put similarities between open pardon and forgiveness of punishment, as I understood the introductory part of the replicator. For us, it's an overall goal to set prisoners free and out in a function of society. Return from a criminal career to the benefit of society in freedom is a process, and in this process we want to use all means to facilitate and prepare the return of the convicted offender to social functions. It's behind our positions on this. With regard to the signal power, it is preferable to turn the other way around, that showing concern and concern for the future of the prisoners also gives some kind of signal power, which can have positive effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e629	There will be a lot of flight on me today. The President will be told if he gets tired. With this budget, the Christian People's Party has chosen, as I can understand, to follow the request of the Right Party for budgetary cooperation with the Advance Party. In the view of the Swedish authorities, this has led to disproportionate efforts on the police and officers' seat, while, in particular, criminal justice still needs to be closely monitored. The Labour Party and the SV have made a joint commitment to this sector by giving more to the conflict councils and to student law assistance. We have also, in the form of a note, provided guidance in relation to free legal aid, because we see that there is still an unmet need for this help in the population. We have also put in a verbal proposal that everyone should be entitled to one free consultation hour, which the Christian People's Party is going to vote down with its budget partners. My question is: does it not feel a little strange and perhaps even a little awkward for the Christian People's Party, which has been close to both the Workers' Party and SV in a lot of cases, that it is now the Progress Party that is the main partner of the party? Or does the Christian People's Party feel that they have now had a great impact on their justice policy with this budget? In addition, will I ask for answers to the same question that I put to the Right earlier today, namely, whether the Christian People's Party is experiencing that next year's government budget is adding up to a reversal of the fact that Norway is struggling with increasing economic differences, a neglected municipal economy and poverty problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e643	The Christian People's Party has followed the Right in captivity at the Advance Party, or was it the other way around – that the Right has followed the Christian People's Party? We recognize the actual conditions. Having said that, I will allow myself to show that this cooperation has actually led to the Christian People's Party and the Right having contributed $5 million. extra for criminal protection in relation to the draft budget of the Stoltenberg Government. To take the last, as far as poverty is concerned, and when the representative Thorkildsen in the form of a crossword refers to local economy, I could be tempted to make a longer contribution. As rapporteur in Enebakk, I stood at the time for the establishment of the poor communiqué, and, as far as the state of Kommune-Norway is concerned, I dare say I know it better than many representatives in this Chamber. It is true, as the replicator suggested, that the municipality economy in Norway is difficult – not least in the area around Oslo and around the major cities. The Christian People's Party will strive to strengthen the community economy on every occasion precisely in order to make everyday life better for those who have the most difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e652	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e655	The Committee's position shows that there is broad agreement on many of the issues dealt with under the budget of the Ministry of Justice and that is important. It is also important to have an analysis that the Committee largely supports. Both the causes and the instruments in relation to crime are complex. There are no simple answers. Often, the debate on crime will focus on the possibility or the lack of opportunities for rapid and good response. And that may not be so strange; of course, it is absolutely vital that those who have committed a criminal offence be held accountable, and that society sets clear limits to unacceptable behaviour. Therefore, it is also important that we have an ongoing debate on the ability of the police to carry out their work, on the efforts of the judiciary, and not least on whether the punishment for the various criminal acts is proportionate to what society thinks is a correct response. The centre party also considers that further attention to prevention is necessary. We think it is gratifying that the Committee touches on this as much as it has done in today's position. In terms of prevention, in the opinion of the Centre Party, there are two contexts that require greater attention. One is the fact that the Committee points to in its position, that great differences between peoples also create ground for crime and violence. The second is that studies, including: from Sweden, shows that a large proportion of those convicted of violence have been in the police searchlight from a very young age. There are probably numbers that are not so different from Norway either. This shows the importance of early prevention, the importance of catching up children and young people when moving into a danger zone and giving them the opportunity to reverse their development. I think that many actually see that some kids have problems very early, but because kindergarten, school and SFO don't provide enough resources to follow up everyone in relation to their own needs, things develop without adequate help. Because we neglect the debate on prevention, we often get a debate in this Chamber on the repair budgets. We get a debate on child protection expenditure, prison services and social assistance that is much bigger than it needs to be. There is a need to reverse this trend. We must be willing to deploy more resources, including: to school, to work towards a better social environment and to follow-up of individuals better. We must be willing to discuss prevention in relation to how society as a whole is organised, whether we choose to plan so that local communities promote transparency and belonging, and whether we contribute to ensuring fair distribution, contribute to good growth conditions and contribute to preventing crime. We must also pay more attention to how violence can be prevented and how racist attitudes can be countered. The centre party is concerned about the prevention efforts, and we recognise that there is an issue that goes far beyond the debate on the budget that you have today. As has been said, in relation to today's budget and the Committee's position, the Central Party is pleased that the Committee has agreed on so many points. Within the framework adopted for the budget, the Centre Party will support the re-priorities proposed by the Workers' Party and the SV. We're a little surprised by the proposal that has been made to put an end to the Pre-School of Civil Protection Officers at Hustad. We find it difficult to see the good reasons for this proposal, in particular. of the work on so-called VOKT training at school. The centre party is of the opinion that the issue of the further training provision of civil servants should be considered in a broader context and in contact with the parties concerned, before any decision was taken on the nature of the pre-school leaving at Hustad. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 4 from the Centre Party, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e679	The representative Arnstad has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e684	I am pleased that Mr Arnstad's representative has given strength and breadth to the fundamentals of criminal policy in this budget debate. I am also pleased that the representative Arnstad pointed out, in terms of the cause of crime, that it may not be primarily the fight against poverty in itself that should be focused most on in this context, but perhaps on the fight to reduce differences. It may also be part of the reason why crime, at least the crime of profit, grows in periods when people only feel better and better, but where the differences get bigger. That's where the government in our opinion doesn't take hold. But what could also be interesting to ask the Center Party is whether the consensus also extends towards the principal issues raised in this budget debate, and that, among other things, are: concerns the important use of power by the State and the authorities, whether in cars, in courts or in prisons, and whether the representative Arnstad and the Senterpartie agree with the Workers' Party and SV that there is a mild danger in privatising the transport of prisoners and also smelling at the question of operating and building private prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e691	I have noted the Committee's comments on these points, both in terms of private prison transport and private prisons. The centre party has no dogmatic relationship as to whether things should be public or private. But I'm a little surprised that the answer to any public problem seems to be that one should privatize. I think that picture is much more complex than that. In my view, the answer to the problems that one sees in these areas – because we have to recognise that they exist – could have been more varied and more nuanced, both in terms of the costs of the transport of prisoners and also in terms of the settlement of cows. It is well possible that one could also have been more flexible in the performance of the tasks within the public sector, or that one actually contributed the resources needed to better solve the tasks. It's not that there's always a question of organizing the tasks. There may well be a question of whether the agencies are allocated the resources to ensure that they are properly implemented. In general, I think it will be a little easy when someone says in any public problem or in any authority task that a better answer is to privatize. In these two areas, I would rather have chosen to look at what improvements you can make in the public offer, and how to make the public offer more flexible than today. But at one point I will not be entirely opposed to the comments that have come from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, and that is the question of using the Defence Institutions for a transitional period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e700	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e703	In the 2002 draft budget, the government has prioritised social security and preparedness, crime prevention, the follow-up to migration and rapid reaction and balance in the criminal justice chain. Terrorism in the United States on 11 September and the subsequent fight against terrorism have markedly markedly marked their mark on the world and on our everyday lives. Terrorism has also made a clear mark on the ongoing work we are doing in the justice sector. Terrorism has also given the justice sector new challenges to tackle. In the situation we are now in, with increased attention and resource use to society's security, I am concerned that, at the same time, we find a good balance between society's security needs and individual citizens' rights. The principles of the rule of law and the demands of individuals for legal certainty must always be on and with us, even when we make the hardest and worst decisions to combat terrorism. In its draft budget, the government has given priority to implementing civil protection and police preparedness measures to make society safer and less vulnerable to possible terrorist attacks. The government has proposed a total of 140 million. kr for that purpose in 2002. The Ministry of Justice is now working to get an overview of the overall need for civil protection resources and the necessary preparedness measures for the police, including POTs. This is an extensive work. The government will therefore come back with a review of the overall resource needs later, possibly in the context of a separate deposit proposal that the Ministry of Defence will present in spring 2002. The Vulnerability Committee's attitude points to a number of challenges facing modern complex societies. This has been further updated as a result of the terrorist attack on the United States. The Ministry of Justice will follow up on the Vulnerability Committee’s attitude to the presentation by the Ministry of Social Security and Preparedness in spring 2002. The government aims to reduce crime and increase legal certainty in society. Targeted measures to combat child and youth crime, organised crime, racism and violence are particularly priorities. The government is committed to preventing children and young people from starting on a criminal track. We want to facilitate the motivation and support of children and young people who commit criminal acts for other behaviour. There is already ongoing work to develop prevention and design and use adapted responses. The causes of crime are many and require a wide range of instruments and thus efforts from many different public authorities. The government believes that there is a benefit in bringing together and coordinating the prevention work that is currently being carried out by various public bodies, but also by various voluntary bodies. Administrative cooperation will take place at different levels, both between departments and in the daily meetings of children and young people, such as: police, school, health care and child protection, and among the parents and the different voluntary fires we have in our society. Organised crime within and between countries increases the need for better coordination and cooperation both internally in Norway and in committed cooperation between countries. If we are to have a legitimate hope of combating organised crime, efforts must be coordinated and made more effective. Here, the ROK, the Council for the Coordination of Organised Crime, will have a very central role to play. I would like to mention in particular a long-term project under the auspices of the ROK that pays extra attention to the backers in serious drug crime, smuggling and money laundering. I have no doubt that organized criminals will notice that the fight against the backers has now come into a new phase. The government will actively counter racism and ethnic discrimination. This will take place through a series of measures that will be implemented to strengthen the law, guidelines and attention to be paid to this fight throughout society. Let me add that when I meet young people, among others. at Holmlia in Oslo, who says that they are still afraid, there is an experience I actually choose to take with me and have to go into contact with them, their community and the police. Reduction of violence is a generally important objective of the Government. Special attention shall be paid to domestic violence and violence against women and children. In this work, family violence coordinators in the police districts will be central. Action is and will be taken to prevent violence and abuse, to improve police handling of domestic violence cases and to focus more on both victims and abusers. The right and the ability to have a social life are important. The Ministry of Justice will therefore launch a pilot project in 2002 with mobile violence alarms to ensure that victims of violence are also away from home. In recent years, the justice sector and the Ministry of Justice have undergone significant changes and changes. At the beginning of the year, the Directorate of Police and the new regional members of the Criminal Service were put into operation. Further efforts are being made to implement further reforms in the police, including: in the case of a significant reduction in the number of police districts. The implementation of police reform will strengthen the out-of-court activities of the police. The independence of the Court of Justice will be strengthened by the establishment of its own court administration in Trondheim in the second half of 2002. The government is pleased that this work goes according to plan. The aim of the measures already implemented and the actions we will implement is to achieve more effective response and objectives in the justice sector. The reorganisation shall also improve the service to users, contribute to better and more efficient management of underlying activities, provide greater space for long-term overall planning and lead to better coordination across departments. The first important steps have been taken, now we have to take the next necessary steps towards a better organised justice sector. A majority of the Committee considers that an extension of prison capacity, inter alia: should be based on the possibility for private individuals to build and rebuild and then rent out to the operation of criminal services. Use of civil protection and, where appropriate, defence facilities, e.g. Where the camp in Kongsvinger, as part of the reduction of the pay queue, is also set up. These are the views that I take into account in my work, along with the fact that the majority of the committee is asking for a testing scheme in which prisoner transport is put on the market under police supervision and control. At the same time, we should consider other measures to save resources in the case of prisoner transport, such as: use by civil servants. I think it is right to gain experience before any major changes to today's incorporated schemes are made. The criminal chain is a priority area for the Government. High quality work in the police, the courts and the criminal justice system is important, as quickly as possible in the criminal justice chain, so that cases go from the police to the courts as quickly as possible and then the criminal justice system. Effective criminal proceedings strengthen legal certainty. Evidence is better assured, witnesses remember better, insulted ones get a faster clearance, and convictions can be speeded up. We now see that recent years’ efforts in the criminal justice chain are beginning to produce results. Police have faster procedures and increased clearance rates. The courts deal with more cases than before, and the use of capacity and the production of settlement days in criminal matters is very high. Recent developments show that the pressure is now greatest in the courts and in the criminal justice system. In both of these terms, there has been an increase in the number of cases dealt with in the courts and capacity utilisation in prisons. The government's draft budget is aimed at continuing a high level of activity throughout the criminal justice chain. I note that the budget of the justice sector during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget has been strengthened by a net of 30 million. kr. As a result of the fact that government parties have allocated funds to new posts in the police budget, we now have a budget that should ensure that all police students leaving the Police College in the spring of 2002 are offered a job. This is a proposal which, together with other proposals in today's budgetary position, also has the subsidiary support of the Progress Party. The strengthening of the courts by the parties to the Government means that a high level of activity is also maintained in this section and that measures can be taken by individual courts to ensure that cases are properly dealt with, while at the same time making a relatively rapid decision. I see that the Committee is also concerned with the context of the criminal justice chain in general and the situation in the courts in particular, and that, at the Committee's hearing, there is a further five million. to the courts. During the committee treatment, 3 million have also been redispatched. to the Councils of Conflict. The government has proposed increasing the funding for criminal protection. This allows criminal services to maintain the high level of activity and capacity utilisation in prisons. The work on the content of the set-aside will also be able to be maintained more closely at the level of the day. The queue and forecasts show that there is a need to increase prison capacity. The new Eastfold institution is an action The Government prioritizes to meet this challenge in the short term. As part of the government’s further involvement in criminal justice, the high number of aspirants at the Criminal Education Centre in 2002 is also being continued. I am pleased with the budget available for 2002. It provides the justice sector with good opportunities to carry out its tasks in a good way in the coming year. At the same time, it is important to stress that the challenges are many, and they require that throughout the year, as in the previous year, we demonstrate the adaptability and adaptability to the changing needs we will meet. Finally, I would like to say something to the representative of Thorkildsen, because I think it is important when bigots representatives use Stortingen's pulpit to share experiences that they have gained, with others. I see the way to work, as a testimony, which is not just to decide a job, but which is important. It helps to give face and knowledge of people we don't know, and I would like to stress that the representatives of Thorkildsen's posts and the examples she mentioned made a strong impression on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e755	The Left Party has long and good traditions as regards the defence of the rule of law and the defence of the legal security of people. I therefore find it very difficult to understand that the Dørum Council of State is at all opening the door to the privatisation of prisoner transport, and I also registered that the Council of State in its contribution did not show any great enthusiasm for the proposal. I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the issues associated with this privatisation. Firstly, none of the professional communities concerned has been consulted, and there are a number of legal issues that have not been resolved and that need to be resolved before starting this at all. My question is whether the Council of State considers it appropriate to privatise power. Is it okay to delegate power e.g. To the Falk or Securitas? The Labour Party doesn't seem in any way that it's okay to delegate power beyond the power we already have in the police. Has the Council considered the problem related, for example, to: the requirement of good repute with regard to those required to carry out the catch transport operations and the questions of professional secrecy? And has the Council of State thought through the fact that so-called easy transport, which is primarily referred to here by private individuals, can develop into very difficult passenger transport? Maybe it's like saving a few dollars on prisoner transport, but has it really become so that some saved crowns and ears are more important than the individual citizen's legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e761	I will refrain from polemics, although there was a clear polemic undertone in the representative's question to me. The proposal of the majority of the Committee is based on the following: efforts by the police department are not sufficiently helpful to those in need of assistance, whether in the street or in the follow-up of police departments. It is known that much of the police's time goes to prisoner transports. There are two ways in which we can see whether we can make better use of resources: firstly, we are asked to put in place a test system with tenders, but under the direction and control of the police, i.e. Secondly, we are asked to look at other resource-saving measures, such as: use by civil servants. I think that the committee is asking the ministry to look at various measures that, in total, ensure that police action is concentrated where people need it, either in direct visible action or by what we call the active police in police action in police districts. In this way, the majority of the committee provides a reference basis, an experience base, to see if we can do things better. In fact, the Sem Declaration clearly states – and I have been involved in it – that you should look at situations where you can exempt the police, that is, what we call the police professional effort, for tasks that others can do. But I have earlier in this room on questions answered, and I repeat it today, that it is not the exercise of authority that you can put away, but if there are practical tasks you can put away and thus get more for the money, we will of course do it. In the same way, a fraction of the committee has stated, which nobody has come up with, that we should look at the costs of sending out asylum seekers, which are very high. We have a duty to review the costs of seeing that we have the most efficiency for the tax dollars. At the same time, of course, we need to ensure that both legal certainty and the exercise of authority are properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e768	We start from the opposite point of view in relation to the previous representative's question to the Council of State. We want to commend the Council of State for the initiative he has taken, and the creativity he has shown so far as to think differently. The fact is that the reason why they have to be done is a consistent under-budgeting, where changing governments have not taken the necessary responsibility. That's why we have to do things untraditionally. Of course, we support the idea that we should make a pilot project in which the catch transport is assessed on a tender basis in order to release funds. The same applies to private prisons. If we have alternatives that can release funds, they should be tested. The same applies to defence and civil protection facilities where funds can be released to strengthen other pieces of the judicial budget. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: are there, beyond the elements and conditions we have now seen, other tasks where the Council of State sees it possible to do things differently through restructuring and reorganization, which will also release funds? We have recorded that the Council of State has pointed out that the operating budget of the police and officers' seat, among other things. should be looked at, and we meet the answers with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e773	It is a fact that in the case referred to in the case of prisoner transport, but above all of prisons, the Progress Party has had one starting point and the Workers' Party another, and the starting point of the Workers' Party is ‘will not’. Then government parties have been able to form a majority with the Advance Party in terms of prisons – not by putting out operations, but by doing something as practical as letting some build, and then renting built – and then it has been said that it is willing to go into a number of resource-saving measures for the transport of prisoners. What the representative Ellingen asks me about in this connection is whether there are other places we can have pressure. It is clear that we can have pressured through the police reform, through the situation that we in the police districts may now experience that police officers locally will have to look at the costs of the rental contracts they have against, for example. the means available to them to operate freely and to help people. And it can then be thought, when rent contracts are to be renewed, that you have the choice – not to make it bad, but a little less good than the ‘good’ you now have, to the advantage that you can use the means you get, to make sure that there are people available, either outside or inside the stations, to run what I call active police, that is, a police that is accessible to people, and that at the same time you know how to follow up the measures. Similarly, what is in the courts is a topic, by looking at modern procedural systems, where there is considerable funding in the budget for the next year, but which is therefore not completed. This thinking I think we have to have with us all the way, and we have to have that thought. It also comes to those representatives from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party who have been involved in organising the public in such a way that you get more for the crowns. Getting more for the heads, we all have to be concerned about, and that's my starting point. And to the representative's question about my basic attitude, I can confirm: I think that way all the time, because that's my duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e782	First, I would like to thank the Council of State Dørum for his sensitivity and what I see as a real desire to do something for these women and children, and also for sharing my opinion that the stories of individuals are important in order to light up the situation in society. I have some questions — probably too many to be answered in a thorough manner in a short time, but then the Council of State will also have the opportunity to think through it to the next Question Time. The first question is whether the Council of State can specify how and with what time perspective family violence coordinators will be set up in the new police districts, as the Council of State has said he wants to do. Does the Council have any plans for strengthening competence in this area in the criminal justice chain? And does he have thoughts about how we can change attitudes that today help to prevent women from seeking help? Governments today have heard stories about women living on constant refugees, and have probably also heard stories about this before. What does the Council of State think to do for these families? Finally, what will the Government do to prevent violence against women and children, and to help these men overcome their violent behavior?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e795	The issue of top competence in police districts is on the agenda of the governance dialogue that the Department and I, as the State Council, have with the Police Directorate. In other words, it is a work that we have already been busy about, and that I will continue to be concerned about. It was a work I was also busy with the last time I put in the Council position that I now have, so I want to follow it up. I also expect the Police Directorate to notice, of course, the debate that is taking place in Stortinget, and it is my duty to press it. With regard to other aspects of the criminal justice chain, there are enough opportunities in general in the public debate to be concerned about how people meet, but we can also provide legal protection. We have provided legal protection through a reinforced response to abuse of women, including women. in case of gross negligence in the event of a rape. Changes have been made to protect women from injury issues if they do not reach, i.e. to protect someone from what some of us would call the double assault. When it comes to prevention in general, I think the prevention is marked by the need to give what is hidden, a face, so that those people who have the courage to stand up – and that actually requires a lot, we don't have to wait for it by everyone – are involved in giving face to something. I also believe that it must be possible for the face to lead to confrontations, so that the perpetrators can withstand being confronted with what is happening. It's probably a demanding scheme, which I'm not going to improvise from Storting's pulpit, but I believe in that kind of work. I also think, unfortunately, that Norway is sometimes such a transparent society that we need to help someone by giving them new identity and violence alarms, and unfortunately also by moving on. But on questions in the past, I have blackened from this speaker that I support the initiative my predecessor took when it came to tightening up the ban on visits in relation to violence in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e806	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e809	The budget position of the Judicial Committee is adopted today with a new privatisation decision and majority comments on private involvement in criminal matters. This will be adopted because Norway has received a right-wing Bondevik II government that is trapped in the Progress Party. And whoever's got someone on hold, it's got to get something back for the weight by having someone on hold. This privatisation decision is directed against the prisoners to be transported between the courts and prisons before the date of the conviction and between prisons after the judgment. This I think is fundamentally objectionable. Otherwise, the Justice Budget is not so much changed from what the Stoltenberg government provided, although I will not underestimate the fact that there have been some important additions in the process. At Cape. 410, the Lord's Courts and the City Courts, have increased their limits by 13 million. kr, is very good, especially for Oslo who has the longest waiting time now. For the Hustad Preschool and for the civil guardians, this budget will mean change. I would like to stress that it is a very good job that is done at Hustad, especially with the VOKT project. The knowledge given here should probably be part of the high school syllabus. But that knowledge must be communicated in the future to these young people we are talking about here, in a different way, at courses and seminars. The budget for justice means wages and salaries for the employees and the operation of the entire justice sector. But what does this budget really mean for ordinary people around Norway? Properly managed will mean increased security for individuals and increased security in our community. When the police can give priority to meeting parents and giving parents and teachers insights into the drug, alcohol and alcohol habits of young people and what parents and teachers should look after and do to avoid youth rushing, it is about preventing crime, but also about preventing the destruction of young people and their families. If the police take seriously the majority comment of the committee and express themselves in the hearings on the bulwarks of the city councils on the relationship between too many centres, riots, violence and crime developments, local politicians may understand the context, believe in the police and be conscious of their responsibilities. Then we might see that research that shows that drugs and violence are related shows something else if we got fewer tips. When the conflict councils around our municipalities come into force and call for e.g. a 13-year-old who has done his first criminal act, where he will meet face to face the man whom this action has gone over, he will admit that he has done so, and that it is wrong, he will apologize for what he has done, and he will find ways to settle for it. Then it's about preventing a further criminal racetrack, but also about the safety of several victims. That's why I'm especially pleased with that Cape. 474, Conflict Council, strengthened by 3 million. kr. When we look at the situation in order for all the new police districts to have staff who can take a lot of care and care about family violence, it is about security and security for example. Old parents who have an adult drug addict or perhaps alcoholized son who is often at home and want money from their old parents and make life difficult for them. When they want help, they might get help. It may also be about the safety and security of a mother and her child where the father of the house is violent against them in sober or turbulent condition, whether they get help from the police to put an end to the domestic violence they experience. My claim, therefore, is that the budget for justice can have a major impact on ordinary people in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e830	Compared to the State budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government, 37.2 million will now be granted. kr more to the courts. Overall, the legal budget will increase by 10 pst. The increased appropriations show that the Government strengthens legal certainty for individuals and results in more rapid criminal proceedings. Individuals who are intended and charged shall have the assurance that their case will be dealt with by the judiciary as soon as possible. In 2000, the average length of proceedings for criminal proceedings in the courts of jurisdiction and of the city was three months. For criminal cases dealt with by a jury of law enforcement officers, the average duration of proceedings was seven months. In addition, the police use approx. six months in its system from apprehension to prosecution. So it takes an average of nine months from crime to conviction. With the treatment in the law, it takes another six months. The path between crime, intention, prosecution, legal proceedings, judgment and settlement starts shall be as short as possible for the individual and not as currently shown by statistics. Therefore, rapid treatment by the police and in the courts will be essential both for the legal certainty of the person to whom it is addressed, which will immediately have an opportunity to clean up suspicions, and for most people who will experience the effectiveness of justice and the fight against crime. Registered crime has risen by 10 pst. from 1996 to 2000. This is mainly due to several reported drug offences and traditional winning offences. For profit crime, the thefts dominate. An important development is the increasing number of cases of rane, threats and gross thefts by persons in public places. Thus, even with an extension of the police’s ability to monitor particularly unsafe areas, especially in the capital, this type of crime is increasing. The general opinion of the Norwegian people is that it should be safe to move in public places. This is an opinion that must continue. It is therefore very important that the courts are provided with funds to reduce this type of crime, both through more visible police forces in public space and through stricter judicial responses to this type of blind violence. Only an indecent society is showing avoidance of blind violence, such as ransacks and threats in a public place. The highest frequency among the targeted population is between 18 and 20 years of age. It seems that more and more people have started an unfortunate development before the age of 15. Oslo has also recorded the emergence of youth gangs based on different ethnic groups. The last few days' trial in Oslo Tinghus testifies that we have to be set to zero tolerance for this type of violence. Therefore, when the family does not extend, Norwegian society has been carrying out prevention activities through municipalities, schools, non-governmental organisations, sports teams and other child and youth activities for decades. Nevertheless, we experience that youth frustrations end in brutal violence. Many municipalities even have a number of cooperative arrangements between the different agencies. Combating crime cannot be deterred from policy in other areas. The main fight against crime is at home, at school and at the workplace. Almost 60 pst. of those targeted for crimes in 1994 were targeted for a new crime during the following five-year period. The highest rate of relapse is among those targeted for drug crime. This means that criminal justice has not been sufficiently successful in rehabilitating the criminals. We are not allowed to use non-governmental organisations in addition to the public in the rehabilitation of prisoners. For criminal care, the pay queue increased in 2000. Per. On 8 August 2001, there were 1,600 judges in which the convictions had not begun settlement within two months of receiving them from the Criminal Service. It is not acceptable for boning cows to build up. Preparations for the construction of a new Eastfold prison are under way and new temporary solutions, such as the use of competent military facilities, are being exploited. The goods box at Kongswinger is such a facility. The faster the response from crime to final convictions, the more effective the reaction will be – not least in relation to the general respect for the judicial system by people. For every day that goes before a criminal encounters reaction, judgment and atoning, the chances of society's efforts being effective are weakened. Accelerating case resolution is also important in order to avoid the accumulation of criminal offences and the imposition of penalties in breach of the general rule of law. The picture of crime is increasingly influenced by international environments and cross-border crime. This organised crime, with strong elements of violence, threats and reprisals, is a serious threat to the rule of law and must be combated consistently and effectively, nationally and internationally. The next year’s budget is therefore a strengthening of the fight against crime, both with increased funds for police and judicial authorities and with new structural measures in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e858	As many previous speakers have said, it is very important to see the chain of criminal proceedings in the context. In this sense, it is not only the police that it is important to prioritise, but also a well-functioning court system. The Progress Party has given priority to police, conflict councils and courts within the framework it has had at its disposal. It is then that we wanted to strengthen the police with 25 million dollars within the framework. kr. It is worrying for us when we receive signals that the tight budgetary frameworks of the police are not being followed up by necessary autopsies and analyses. One should not ignore the fact that serious crime is not discovered simply because insufficient funds have been allocated to the police to take these analyses and tests. Now the statistics do not show the great need for more requisitions of these tests, but it is claimed – and in particular for good reason – that you do not want to require tests and autopsy for which you cannot afford to pay. The courts are a very important part of the overall criminal proceedings. The need for rapid response to crime and criminal acts also requires a well-functioning judicial system. That is why the Progress Party has chosen to strengthen both the rights of lord and of the city and the rights of the team, in addition to what was in the financial situation. In this context, it is good to point out to some representatives of the Workers' Party that the trade budget is related to the financial situation and the Storting's decisions on the framework and not solely to the Government's proposals. So it's according to a previous decision on a framework we're distributing. It is such that the Progress Party does not see any need to facilitate access to civil protection rather than military service. This is where the Progress Party and the Right Party have been united in the past. Now the Right has chosen to go out of the note that they have previously shared with the Advance Party. When Greece then points out that this change from the Right to what has been said before does not have any material significance, it seems strange. It is also nice that an overall committee opposes the increase in the passport fee. For the Advance Party, it is important that the issue of the only internationally recognised proof of identity should not be a purely fiscal source of income. Yes, because even in the Schengen countries, where only one person needs proof of identity and does not have passport control, it is actually only the Norwegian passport that meets the requirements for identification set by the Schengen Agreement. So finally, the Labour Party has talked a lot about that transporting a person, a prisoner, from A to B is a government task of large dimensions. The question of who is to be transported, where to be transported and how to be transported will continue to be a task with which the public has full control and control. It is not that private operators are running around trying to find people they want to transport, because they are engaged in the transport of prisoners. It's actually not the content that should be the privately defined one. It shall be defined by the public, but it is the practical transport within the defined framework that may be carried out by private persons. I can't really see that it's particularly problematic in principle. In this context, it is interesting to look at child protection institutions, where several private actors are involved and where coercion is not an immaterial part of many approaches. It might have been interesting to hear if it's an authority task that the Workers' Party wants to nationalize 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e882	After the representation of Kukkestad on the Workers' Party's views on private prisoner transport, I have at least to dwell on it in my post. But first of all, I want to point out some of the things that I see as the main challenges that we are facing and that we can actually agree on in part. And I think it's natural to assume that ten months ago there were several of us who chose to go on trains in Oslo's streets after the cruel thing that had happened on Holmlia. It showed with gravity that it is still possible also outside this hall and beyond the means we have, to mobilize people in the fight against crime, whether it hits as seriously as it did on Holmlia, or it is everyday crime that affects less seriously, or other type of crime that may be more hidden. It is still possible to mobilise – yes, I actually see that the time is over-mature in relation to being able to mobilise and the will to actually be mobilised. This has actually also given results, so the picture is not completely dark, as many might think when they read the Oslo newspapers and other media, who like to produce the major accidents, which in many ways are what is left on the Internet when we evaluate the Norwegian crime scene. As many people have been involved in the debate, we actually see that in the last few years you have been able to increase the detection rate, you have managed to solve more issues, and you have managed to pass it through to the police in a shorter time than what you did in the past. I would also venture to say that in several districts in Norway and in several courts it has actually been possible to do this in such a quick and straightforward way that a clear impact has been seen in the crime scene, especially in the case of younger age groups. I think it's right that we have it with us in relation to the challenges we have, because it shows that what really benefits in this fight is the tough, more boring measures that may not get the big headlines, but actually go about putting the actors in the criminal chain in a position to do the job – and not necessarily ask us how strict the reaction should be, or how strict we have to take the individual, but how fast and how clear we can get this done. But I believe that there are clouds in the sky in relation to Norwegian crime, and I think the Minister of Justice gave a good picture of it, both the issue of organized crime and, to the maximum extent, the issue of drug-related crime, to which the Justice Committee, at my discretion, is now pointing. It is, of course, a paradox that those who have been most concerned about ‘freedom’, in particular by the Progress Party locally and also here in the Grand Duchy – freedom in relation to games, freedom in relation to weapons, freedom in relation to drugs – are also those who in many ways have to be the most active champions of crime. And then you see that at one end you actually contribute to increasing the amount of crime. I believe that the growth we are now seeing in Norwegian drug use, especially among younger people — alcohol consumption is growing, and it will not stop growing after the grips of a total increase in taxes — and also what we see in the introduction of new drugs, is the main challenge. 1 in the case of a Norwegian crime debate. The other cloud in the sky is, of course, the one that a collective Justice Department has pointed out that there are plugs in the system. Things are stopping. If we waste money and resources in one part of the criminal chain, it quickly creates plugs in another part of the chain. And that's the main challenge I feel on this occasion that the government parties haven't got hold of. It leads me to the question of criminal custody. For me, it is a paradox that, in general terms, and in the special remarks, we say that the future must now focus on justice policy, courts and criminal justice. The chairperson of the Committee has clarified it in the debate, and even the Minister of Justice has pointed it out. What, then, is the majority of the committee immediately doing, whether it is in a little internal trixation with the budget framework or the 30 billion put on the table in the context of the financial situation? In fact, it is to totally ignore the area of criminal proceedings and the chain of criminal proceedings in which we have been involved and point out that more resources are needed now, namely the criminal justice system. And there is the Workers' Party and SV standing alone with the wish that a good part of the money that came after the budgets had been submitted by the respective governments should go to criminal care – not necessarily because we believe that 20 million. kr is such a huge amount, but because it actually also helps to show the arrangements for the future budgets of justice. I have to say that I am excited about whether the government parties and the Progress Party really follow up on the general comments made in this year's Justice Budget, in the revised national budget and in the next year's government budget in view of the question of whether you are really willing to bet on criminal justice, both in terms of multiple places, and in terms of quality improvement in criminal matters, which is necessary. It leads me to the second, more general, principled debate to which there has been today, and on the issue of privatisation in criminal proceedings. I have to say that I see the Minister of Justice as gripping a little bit on what is in the position of the Committee on Justice, where no investigation or any new reference is actually requested on this issue of prisoner transport, but where it is easy to ask for a test system to be put in place to test where the transport of prisoners is being tendered. At my discretion, this is the first serious step in drawing private forces into an area where the state has previously been in a very clear monopoly situation in relation to who is to exercise power. That's what's the principle, and that's what you haven't been told about in relation to the more fundamental objections. Now you're actually going to start a test project for which you haven't considered the basis. And I think that's serious. This is serious, not necessarily because one cannot imagine or imagine the possibility of private transporting prisoners – as the representative Kukkestad made it more polemically – but because this is the first step on the road. And we heard, of course, the reply of the Progressive Party to the Minister of Justice, who really clearly stated where the pressure against the present government is going to be in the future judicial debate. Do we get more of this question? And why is this serious? Why are we raising this fundamental question? Well, not first and foremost because we are opposed to anyone transporting people, but because this is about the exercise of power that has previously been on the state's hand alone. And we believe that this exercise of power in the Workers' Party should still be on the hands of state authorities, because it is linked to it. This could be done, for example, by: during a transport that you need to use power, but the border must be very clear. The second is the question of control of this power. To what extent is it possible to control this use of power when placing the transport on private hands? The third question is probably so important. It has nothing to do with money, power or control, it actually has to do with the legitimacy of this power. I believe one of the main challenges in the Norwegian crime debate and criminal policy in the future is actually to ensure that the citizens of this country have confidence in those who exercise power and that they have confidence in the means of power that these authorities are to use. And I'm not so sure if the legitimacy debate will be strengthened by such a way of operating justice policies that we now see, where a majority of the Judicial Committee has gathered to launch such a trial project. And there I actually think that the Left and Justice Minister Dørum should be more active in the field of precisely flagging the question of the need for legitimacy in relation to the enormous resources that society is gradually given in relation to ordinary citizens in the important fight against crime. I'm afraid that such a hollowing out of legitimacy can actually help make other police work worse, and that in that way you bite your tail a little bit. And that's why we in the Workers' Party are very sceptical about going into such an arrangement. I had really wanted a much clearer principal clarification from the Minister of Justice on just this. Finally, most of all, I am pleased that the vulgar debate during this treatment has been absent, and that we have agreed a lot. But I'm very concerned that the government parties have not chosen this time to balance the use of resources in the criminal chain by ignoring the issue of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e915	Security and legal certainty are fundamental prerequisites for the functioning of a welfare society. The fight against crime and for a safer society is important to the Right. Combating crime is more extensive than just an issue of increased police and more severe penalties. Well, that's how important the individual's attitude to right and wrong is, and it's so important that we politicians approach the challenges we face, with humility and a willingness to think new, because there are no simple and easy solutions to combating crime. I am therefore very pleased that the majority in the Committee this time clearly expresses the desire to contribute to the adoption of new measures in the field of justice. There is no reason to hide that next year's budget appears to be a very good budget. I am very pleased that the Co-operation Board proposed to increase the staffing of the political groups by granting 20 million. kr for more jobs. The increased number of posts will ensure that all police students leaving the Police College next year are offered employment in the police. It is also very good that the cooperation parties and the Progress Party secured increased operating resources for the police by 10 million. as a further contribution to the fight against crime. In the justice sector, there is a need to be willing to look at new alternative approaches in order to ensure greater security for the population. I think it is very gratifying that budgetary cooperation with the Progress Party led to a lift for a more effective police and justice system. The individual issue, which is perhaps the most debated today, concerns the testing scheme for the placing on the market of captive transport. Prisoner transport on offer will free up considerable time and resources in the police so that the police can show up more in the streetscape and use resources to combat crime. And I must honestly admit that I find it difficult to understand the fears of the Workers' Party and the SV in relation to this, and what it is all about, because we have just emphasised how important it is that this should be done under the supervision and control of the police, in order to ensure that the job is done properly. Like the representative Thorkildsen, I am also concerned about the challenges we face in terms of violence against women. Violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights and a serious social problem. It is therefore very positive that the follow-up to the adopted Action Plan ‘Violence against Women II 2000-2003’ has now started. The action plan obliges police and judicial authorities in many ways to give priority to strengthening women’s legal certainty through various measures. I am very pleased that the Government is launching a pilot project in 2002 with mobile violence alarms. This is very good, because it's going to help many women to a safer everyday life. I have great faith that this government with the Minister of Justice will be at the forefront of this work. Faith is also strengthened if you go back and look at the work the Minister of Justice did the last time he was in government. I also have great faith that this government will actually deliver results that will ensure that women who are subjected to violence can actually have the opportunity to live without fear of their own lives in their own homes. I very much appreciate the fact that the Government prioritises the establishment of acute competences in the areas of violence and sexual abuse in the individual police districts, and that during 2002 initiatives will be taken to establish family violence coordinators in each of the 27 police districts of the country. The fight against child and youth crime is an important priority for the Right and Government Parties. In this context, the councils of conflicts in the municipalities have proved to have a major impact on young people who commit a first criminal act. Conflict advice, where the perpetrators must face the victim, stand ready for their actions and settle for themselves, help to increase understanding of personal responsibility and respect for fellow humans. Increased allocations to the conflict councils are a cheap investment for society. There is a lot of evidence that young people who are in the process of engaging in a criminal career experience conflict advice as a significant wake-up and an obstacle to falling into disrepute. I am therefore very pleased that the Cooperation Government, together with the Progress Party, has succeeded in prioritizing the conflict councils by strengthening the budget by 3 million. kr. This is one of the government budget items that is not of the most impressive size, but where the result of the allocation will be of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e936	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 585]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e952	There is no drama in the budget setting of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The position is unanimous and fully in line with the Presidency's proposal and the follow-up of the Government in the budget proposal. The budget setting includes the Storting and the institutions subject to the Storing. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration, the National Audit Office and the Grand Duchy Monitoring Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service. The largest increase in the budget has the Stortinget, plus NOK 63 800000. The budget covers parliamentary activities in a broad sense. This concerns the administrative operation of the Stortinget, the participation of the Stortinge in international parliamentary meetings, other travels and the remuneration of the representatives of the depositors. The relatively large increase is the result of important decisions taken by the previous magnification. On the basis of the work of the so-called Brørby Committee, the Stortinget adopted in June of this year the largest and most important contribution to improving the working conditions of the large-scale representatives for decades. This budget strengthens the support apparatus around the large-scale representatives and will be stepped up in recent years. This should enable us as representatives to strengthen the ombudsman role and to work more thoroughly on principle matters, as the intention has been. The second innovation is the decision on open consultations. This decision was taken on the basis of the first interim investigation carried out by the so-called Frøiland Committee, which is now examining the control of government and administration of the United Kingdom. Committee hearings are now, as a general rule, open. It is very important in the ongoing efforts to strengthen democracy. Democracy requires transparency, including: transparency about who runs lobbying and who can then make important premises for the decisions of the Storting. People in this country are going to have insight into the Great Britain's work. It is an important prerequisite for bringing the debate to the attention of those matters and for making it possible to engage in matters. It will strengthen democracy. The open consultation system presupposes an increase in the number of consultation rooms in the Grand Duchy. The necessary conversions will be made possible by this budget. Democracy presupposes transparency in government, whether in state, county or municipality. From 1 January 2001, the Public Procurement Act also applies to Stortinget. The Committee stresses that this will increase the transparency of the public, improve the decision-making framework and increase confidence in the Storting. The Committee also highlights the Ombudsman’s commitment and investigations into the application of the Public Health Act, including: in the municipality of Lillehammer and the municipality of Trondheim. Control is one of the tasks of any parliament. The big business's own control is and must be a political activity. The work of the Frøiland Committee is therefore very important. The committee is due to be held in February 2002, and the Stortinget will then have the opportunity to discuss a number of fundamental issues and proposals – such as the Riksrecht as an institution, the Stortinget's demand for information on control matters, the work of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, parliamentary review commissions and the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office may be the largest premiscuous provider of control cases for Storting. There has been a recent debate on the framework of the National Audit Office. The majority will have the opportunity to return to the law and rules of the National Audit Office. However, I would like to stress the importance of the right of the National Audit Office to examine information and documents where it considers it necessary – in other words, to do its job. There may be a need for constitutional changes as a result of the report of the Frøiland Committee. I believe that both the work of this sample and the debate that has taken place after the Storting's own seminar on the need for constitutional reforms last March will make the need to go through the Constitution visible. I want to commend former prime minister Kirsti Kolle Grondahl for having grasped this. The Constitution is a foundation for democracy and human rights. The content and interpretation of the Basic Law are amended and adapted to the time. Historian Sverre Steen compared the Constitution to an artwork. "The artist creates it in the great moments of inspiration, the descendant interprets it and finds values in what the artist himself has never progressed in his consciousness," he said. This underlines the need for a review of the Constitution. With this, I would recommend the budget setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 596]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e990	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e1051	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included in the vote, and proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e1066	Only a brief explanation of vote, since the Central Party is not represented in the Judicial Committee. I would recommend that the representatives of the Centre vote in favour of proposal No. 1 for proposal No 2 and for proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e1073	The President notes that representatives who enter the Chamber after a case has been brought up for voting cannot participate in the voting. There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on training for civil servants, including an assessment of the Hustad clay primary school.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The other parties have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e1092	It shall now be contested over the framework area 5 and the corresponding minority proposals. We start with proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e2409	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a separate case for the Free Legal Aid Authority, where free initial consultation, free legal advice related to the public service office, the role of law students and the extension of the scope of the legal aid law are dealt with.’ The central party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The government parties and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e2426	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, in Framework Area 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e3736	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e5054	The Progress Party has notified that they support the suspension subsidiaryly. The Central Party has announced their support for the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e5067	Then you still have to vote over the setting's B.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-04.ana.ud1874e5080	Here, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
