ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e48	Before we get started, the President will clarify, for the sake of order, a matter on which there were misunderstandings in the oral questioning procedure last Wednesday. There was a main question that did not belong within the professional area of the state council that received it, nor under the other state councils that were present. The President has seen that the press later claimed that this issue should have been rejected by the President. In this connection, the President has no occasion and points to the circular of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy of 17 October 1996, which reads as follows: ‘If a question concerns something that is, in substance, a member of the government who is not present, the representatives have to assume that the question will not be answered in the oral question procedure. Meeting members of the Government decide whether and to what extent they will respond to something belonging to a colleague who is not present.» However, the President would stress that representatives should avoid asking questions in areas falling within the scope of government members who are not present in the oral questioning process. Then we start today's oral Question Time. On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Council of State Einar Steensnæs Council of State Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e78	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The United States has decided that any terrorists should be sentenced to a military court which does not respect elementary civil rights, for example: that the proceedings may be held for closed doors and that the sentence may go as far as the death penalty. I want to know what the Government's view is that the United States is doing this now. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Newspaper today is not even prepared to comment on the matter, while the opinions of parliamentary leaders in the other two parties are very strong. What is the Government's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e87	Kristin Halvorsen referred to today's headline in the Newspaper. I have to start by saying that there is no suitable starting point for thinking about the matter. The daily newspaper is fine to let me have two points of view at the same time: on the one hand, they refer to a clear substance position, and then they say that I will not speak. Of course, the two things are not going on. I must therefore say that this notice is simply not good. I have not refused to comment on the matter, but at the time when the question came, it was referred to that I had not made any public statement on the matter. In terms of the substance itself, I'm going to first assume that this is what this is all about, is the US attack on American territory. So, basically, it's American law that applies here, and it's an American matter. But I note that there has been a great debate about the legislation that is now being introduced in the United States, and that there will be a congressional hearing on human rights, as announced in today's issue of the Evening Post. For my part, I have to be very clear that we are assuming that the United States is complying with its international obligations and fundamental human rights. I think it is right for me to stress that these conditions must be respected in any such legislation. I would also like to assume that Norway does not supply persons who are at risk of being sentenced to death in another country. I also want to add that I think it is difficult to balance this question with, for example. the tribunal attached to Yugoslavia. It is not that the International Court of Justice is meant to be a substitute for national courts where they are comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e100	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't know if we're any closer to a clarification of what's really the Government's view of this. Is it true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the legislation adopted in the United States violates elementary human rights? That's the one question. And the second is: is it wise to fight terrorism with these kinds of legal institutions? Lilletun says it's really pretty good when he says that he thinks not least the Muslim world will take it pretty badly if the United States on its own will judge in an international conflict. What is the foreign minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e109	That was the last question I addressed in the last seconds of my previous answer. Let me do a parallel: if we get a terrorist attack on Norway, for example. against some construction in Oslo, I think it is reasonably clear that we think it is right that the case should be brought before Norwegian courts. And that's why I don't have any objections to cases of this kind going to U.S. courts. This was an attack on the World Trade Center, in Manhattan – it's really the thickest United States. That's why I say I don't like the balance with the situation in Rwanda or Yugoslavia in this case. So on that question, I want to be quite clear about what I think is right: I don't have any problems with this going to American courts. With regard to the specific legislation that is now being introduced – as far as I understand it is a presidential decree that needs to be filled in with detailed provisions – we have to assume that the United States must comply with the conventions they have signed and with fundamental human rights. I have not entered into a detailed study of the legislation now given, in order to have an independent view of that issue. [[President clubs]] But we're assuming that human rights are respected here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e118	The President will remind you that speaking time must be kept. There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e123	In order to hold the international alliance against terrorism together, it is important, in the opinion of the Central Party, that the trial against Osama bin Laden and his networks take place in such a way that it is perceived as legitimate by the entire international community. A U.S. military court would hardly be considered legitimate by this whole alliance. Now I hear that the Foreign Minister sees certain concerns – or issues – related to applying the same thinking that we did in relation to the Rwandan and Yugoslav courts. I have serious problems seeing the concerns mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and would like to ask for this to be deepened. So my question is whether the Foreign Minister will use Norway's place in the Security Council to set up a special court, which we did in relation to Rwanda and Yugoslavia, and with which we have had very good experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e130	I tried to figure out instead that I don't think that the equation is right in any way. There were two very specific assessments that were made in the cases mentioned here by Åslaug Haga. So I have no problem seeing an estimate against the United States, in the middle of Manhattan, also being dealt with by U.S. courts. In fact, I believe that Norway would have treated an estimate of buildings in Oslo in the same way. But what I agree with Mr Haga in is that the legal process that has to come has a broad legitimacy. That is why we stress the need to respect the international conventions and fundamental human rights on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e138	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e141	We are all aware of the need to create the best possible international legal order. In this way, the tragic event of 11 September can help to create greater clarity on, for example: International Criminal Court – ICC. The intent of the ICC is to prosecute individuals who commit crimes against humanity. In this context, it may seem that the civil order is disregarded when George Bush gives orders to prosecute terrorists and to use special military courts. While Norway and many other countries are working hard to strengthen the rule of law, there is now an American play that will undermine international efforts to strengthen the rule of law. When one introduces the principle of the military court outside the military system, it is in a way imposed on a completely different judiciary from the rule of law for which Norway is trying to obtain international enforcement. I want to ask the Council of State what kind of action he wants to take to influence the United States in this context. And it would be natural to take this up with President Bush, for example. December 5th?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e150	Here's a basic misunderstanding about what the system is really going to be about. It is not the case that the International Criminal Court is intended to replace a national court. The point is that it should act as a security network in which impunity prevails because a state does not itself want or can carry out criminal prosecution. This is the very reason for such an international criminal court, and one of the reasons why Norway has been so active and so strongly in favour of it. So I'm very strange to the problem itself that's being drawn up here. I think it's just a very basic misunderstanding. But I have to get back to the fact that what has to be at the bottom of any prosecution here is that we respect the guarantees of legal certainty, the conventions that are internationally agreed, and the human rights that underlie such statements. And the questioner can be absolutely sure that Norway will be clear. Of course, we will also discuss this with the US authorities in cases where there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e159	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e162	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. It turns out that electricity suppliers buy cheaper electricity, but that it benefits consumers to a small extent. The electricity price of the common Nordic power exchange North Pole has fallen sharply in recent times, but it does not lead to cheaper electricity for consumers, despite the fact that we know that the electricity price means a lot to the household budgets, and that many have had problems paying it. That was also the reason why the electricity charge was reduced this summer, and it will be further reduced. It is also important that, at the same time as the electricity charge is reduced, lower prices in the power market are not consumed by the fact that electricity suppliers continue to charge equally high prices. My question is, will the Council of State take action to ensure that the fact that electricity suppliers purchase cheaper electricity also benefits consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e171	The representative Sylvia Brustad has now asked the department in writing for answers to the same question she is now asking in the oral question procedure. If we can be effective and deliver the answer here, I'd like to do it, but this is for a thorough assessment and investigation in the ministry in answer to question No. 33 from the representative Sylvia Brustad. What is my responsibility as Minister of Oil and Energy is to facilitate the efficient functioning of the energy market, that is. to benefit consumers. Since 1998, consumers have had the opportunity to switch power suppliers free of charge, and from 1 February this year it has actually been possible for consumers to do so via the Internet. This means that consumers have a completely different choice of power supply, and it could put pressure on the different power suppliers, so that prices went down, for the benefit of consumers. Unfortunately, we now see that consumers are not active enough to take advantage of these opportunities. It's less than 15 pst. of all households switching power supply and thus reacting to the suppliers. I think there's reason to look at these mechanisms. It has to do with information and maybe also the way it's being done. With regard to the price charged by the power supplier, it is not illegal to charge a high price, but it is up to consumers to make use of the market and press the suppliers so that the price goes down. With regard to the competitive conditions involved, it does not fall within the scope of my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e186	I think the answer from the Council of State is too defensive. I think the Council of State here is pushing too much responsibility on consumers. Of course, it's a responsibility for us as consumers to follow, but I don't think anyone can expect consumers to be able to keep up with everything that happens from day to day. In addition, I do not think there is any excuse that the power suppliers, when they buy in cheaper electricity, will not also ensure that they benefit the consumers. The previous Minister of Agriculture, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, took an initiative towards the food chains, called for a meeting, watched over, pressed and said what he thought about food prices. It produced results, along with other measures. I'd like to challenge the Council of State whether or not he should also invite the power suppliers to a meeting. Governments have power, and if not real power in this context it means something what a council of state thinks publicly. My question is: Will the Council take an initiative to invite the power suppliers to a meeting and say that they also have at least a moral responsibility, according to my concepts, to ensure that when they buy in cheaper electricity, it will also benefit consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e193	I think it's an excellent idea, and I'd like to evaluate it. It was only my concern here to clarify what is the oil and energy minister's responsibility formally in relation to the competitive situation. But I also said in my first answer that when we see that just 15 pst. of households using this opportunity to change power supply and thus give a signal to suppliers, there is something about the information that we might need to look at. That is what the former Minister for Agriculture did. By changing his food supplier, he got focus on this. It's basically an idea that I think I can pass on to consumers, preferably through the oral question procedure, but also through the kind of initiative that Sylvia Brustad has now launched. I'm happy to take up that idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e198	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e201	We got a new energy law in 1990, and it was opened to private household subscribers when we got new regulations from January 1995. The famous thing is that the water reservoirs are full of water. Although, as the Council points out, there are not so many thousands of private household subscribers in the market, the market is still functioning. The proof is that the difference between the most expensive and the cheapest current price is evened out – there's only a difference between a couple of ears. However, this market is not functional, because producers keep prices up. It can't be that we're gradually getting some big players that are manipulating this market. Can't be right, for example. assesses whether the Competition Surveillance Authority should enter and monitor this so that the free market, where Norway was a leading country, is not disrupted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e206	With regard to competition conditions on the market, the Competition Authority is responsible for ensuring that the legislation to be followed by the power suppliers is complied with. It's not under my department. However, I fully agree with the representative Hedstrom that the competition authorities must ensure that one does not create monolithic structures in the power market, so that manufacturers exploit this in such a way as to maintain unnaturally high prices. Otherwise, I would say for my part that the Energy Act, which I was delighted to share in facilitating the last government I took part in, works well. I would say that Norway went ahead and thus liberalised the power market, for the benefit of the consumer. And here, Hedstrom is absolutely right: the price formation shows that something positive has happened. But when one sees that the price of electricity is falling in the market without this benefiting the consumer, there is a lot of work to do for everyone involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e214	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e217	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The first one of this month, not so many days ago, was the Council of State in an interview in the evening post a lot higher than more money for the defense, money for new fighter aircraft and money for new transport aircraft. This was good news. And then we got the extra proposition. It contained a very disappointing few lines of defense. The main message was simply that you should come back to the matter in the spring. Later, in my opinion, the Council of State has taken a very defensive position in relation to what she said in the newspaper interview, and not least in relation to what the Right marketed in the election campaign. Then the defense was high on the track, not least from the current Minister of Foreign Affairs. How will the Council of State explain this violent right of retreat, and does she feel well about the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e222	I would first like to thank Per Ove Width both for the question and for the fact that he thought I had been pleasantly high on the field when there was the will to fight for funds for the defense. Of course I am still. I am also satisfied with the procedure chosen by the sitting government, namely, to say that we should be absolutely sure that we will be able to reconcile the agreed structure with the allocation decided by the Stortinget, we need a little more time than the few days we had before the supplementary budget was presented. That's why I think the most sensible procedure was the one chosen by the Government, namely to say that we get a separate case for the spring, preferably presented in March, which allows us to ensure that this balance arises. Then it was also adopted on 13 June that the Government would prepare for the purchase of fighter aircraft. Then I would like to remind you that the purchase of new fighter aircraft is estimated to take place around 2015. It's okay to have said, because after the interview in the evening post, the impression was made in the media that this was almost something that was going to happen next year. What I pointed to in the interview, and I am sure that the government will find a solution, is that the costs of these new fighter aircraft coming around 2015 have not been included in any defence decision, for example. related to what we did on 13 June. This is a problem that the Storting must solve jointly with the Government, and which I am sure we shall find a solution. That work starts with the proposition being made, probably in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e229	I thought that after June 13th, the Council of State had had a reasonable time to think a little more than what she now expresses, and could make something more in the proposition. In the same article in the evening post, the Council of State believes that there is no problem in financing new fighter aircraft by taking the money straight from the oil fund and thus avoiding inflationary measures. The evening post says: «Going towards the oil fund to get billions of fighters». It can't be misunderstood – it was, by the way, a nice picture too. This is in full agreement with the Progress Party. But a few days later, the Minister of Finance will move out and say that there is no need to spend money from the oil fund. What's right? To me, it seems like there's someone in the government who's not talking. In addition, our transport aircraft are mostly on the ground because they are too old and worn out. So that we can, among other things, shall be able to participate with Norwegian forces abroad, transport aeroplanes shall be a prerequisite. In the same article in the Evening Post, the Council of State says that this is something that ‘we have to decide very quickly’. Then I expect, according to this statement, that the order for transport aircraft is imminent. Or where is the matter now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e238	I am pleased that the representative Per Ove Width also brought in the transport aircraft here – they were not mentioned in my first answer. It's true that there's an urgent need to find a solution to the transport aircraft situation we have, and it's right that we, among other things, should. through NATO membership, the obligation to provide a transport capacity. But here too, on 13 June, Stortinget decided that the Government would prepare a solution for new transport aircraft. That is what we are doing, and also with regard to this matter, proposals will be made in the proposition for spring. It must be said to be a fairly rapid follow-up to the Storting Decision on 13 June. Then I have a few seconds left to touch my government colleague Per-Kristian Foss' statement last week, which was following the rule of action. There I give him full support, and I would like to reiterate that when it comes to financing fighter aircraft around 2015, we have to find out how to finance it in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e247	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e250	Councillor Krohn Devold has in a short time managed to create full confusion – not to say maximum confusion – both about next year's defence budget, about budgetary procedures, the use of foreign budgets, the use of oil money, the purchase of fighter aircraft and the pace of the reorganization of defence. There are now thousands of defence employees wondering how the organisation process is really going to happen, what is going to happen, and what kind of financial framework they will have in relation to the structure that has been adopted. Does the Council of State see that she is worrying, that she is creating uncertainty, that she is creating unforeseeable? What does she want to do to correct it, and what is really going on in the proposition of spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e255	I believe that in the case of the representative Marit Nybakk’s description of ‘full confusion’ in the defence, it was primarily related to the submission of the state budget by the Labour Party Government. There was then a relatively strong press release, not least from the Defense itself, because there was a considerable gap between the budget presented and the cost calculations presented by the previous Minister of Defence, by letter to the Defence Committee in September 2001 at the latest. After the new government joined and presented its additional budget, and after the mention of our plans for a proposition for the spring there, a new press release came from the Defense Department, where one indicated that there were now positive signals. I believe that with regard to the concern about the attitude of the Defence for the Will to Change and the Will to Follow Up Commitments of the Storting, there is a more optimistic attitude after the government change just at the choice and method chosen by the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e262	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e265	We see with excitement until the announced proposition about the defence resources. Some are concerned with fighter aircraft, while others are concerned with the unmistakably clear decisions that the Storting made in our area of both the share to perform the duty of protection, and also the position of Home Protection and the resources to be used there, including. to training centres and to other measures in the field of Home Security. My follow-up question is whether we can expect in the announced proposition that the Government will follow up the very clear decisions that at least the Defence Minister's and Right's cooperating parties in the Government were on, but on which the Right might not have been so clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e272	As I perceive the representative Arnstad, she is particularly concerned that we maintain a high level of protection, and that the plans for Home Affairs are also being maintained, as adopted on 13 June. There I can assure the representative Arnstad that we probably have the same setting. I am also very concerned about maintaining a high level of protection, and there the Storting suggested that at least it should not fall below 50 pst. In fact, I also believe that Home Affairs will play an important role in this way. As both the Army, the Maritime Defense and the Air Force are being converted more towards forces that can act internationally, I believe that Home Protection will greatly contribute to our meeting our duty of protection. I believe Home Protection is important in this regard, and that what the Stortinget adopted on 13 June was right. I would also like to touch on this in the proposition that comes to spring, and I expect the Storting and the Council of State to have a common view on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e280	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e283	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is both the President of the Right and the number two in the Government. The right-hand leader was campaigning for taxes and school. In the last few days, we see in the media that a number of states are now dropping teacher vicars because they have poor finances, as State Secretary Bergersen of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research says. The background is that county councils have financial problems. In the current year, the counties will have a deficit of up to NOK 2 billion due to more activity in hospitals. It is not appropriate to cover this deficit, says the Minister of State. The gap between budget and results has never been greater than now. My question is therefore, given that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is also number two in the Government: what will the Government do to ensure that the states now do not do what, among other things, does. Eastfold warnings, dropping out of high school and weakening the education offer to get the budget going?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e294	We're now out of my remit, and I'm therefore not going to go deep into the issue, but I still allow myself to add some comments to it, because it's too tempting to leave it alone, to say it as it is. I can only confirm what Enoch says, that it is true that tax and school were among the important issues that the Right raised in its election campaign. As far as tax is concerned, there is no doubt that we have made good progress in implementing the views we have taken – and I see that Enoch is nodding to it. When it comes to the school issues, I guess in the same budget, he'll also see that we're in the process. One of the most important things we talked about was the more teaching time for the kids. It's in the budget. We were also very clear that a number of important reforms had to be carried out in Norwegian school, and Enoxen has probably seen the evening post today, where the Minister of Education explains how she thinks a new teacher education was going on. Enoxens probably also remember that the teacher and teacher training was what I talked about most in the election campaign. So there's no doubt that we're doing well for the tax and education promises that the Right has given. There is, of course, a four-year perspective on the activities of this government, and also on the views I used in the election campaign. When it comes to how the states actually manage the funds they get at their disposal, I want to refer to what the responsible state council has also said, and put myself fully behind it. But Enoxen will probably understand, in the light of the promises I have made, that the Right Policy is in line with the impression the voters received before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e305	I agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the Right and Government are doing well to provide tax relief, especially to those who earn the most, but I do not agree that the Government is doing well in the school area. There is little help in strengthening teacher training in the long term when county councils are in an economic situation that does not include teachers, which is becoming a growing problem. It doesn't help to train more teachers if they don't get into work. Nor does it help to train more teachers if the county councils have to leave secondary schools because of lack of money. The same applies to the municipalities. For, as the municipal minister said in Political Quarter last week, the municipalities have more than enough money. They have to learn to prioritise. They must give priority between school and care for the elderly. I can't believe the government believes that priority should be given to care for the elderly. Then the school is left, according to the municipal minister. If the municipality is to prioritize away from school, it won't be where the teachers that Right is aiming to train, and we're sitting back with a poorer school. The deficit in high school is close to 2 billion dollars to reach an acceptable level. What does the government want to do with these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e314	As I said, I do not go deeper into what is the responsibility of another Council of State, but nevertheless the temptation to say the following is quite overwhelming, and that is that this government is adding up to an economic policy that provides a basis for interest to go down. Not least the public – municipalities and counties – will enjoy this very much. It's very important that you don't start a spiral that makes you go the other way. It will go beyond the purpose that Enoch mentions. So he can be pretty sure that this is put up to a balanced policy that will secure and strengthen the school, and I think we'll be able to see the voters safely in the eyes when this four-year period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e321	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e324	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has any thoughts about the Danish election and what has taken place in the election campaign there, with strong appeals to xenophobia and racism, and that more parties than the Danish People's Party have used the terrorist attacks on 11 September for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e329	I think Thorbjørn Jagland from many previous election campaigns in Norway wants to know that I am very clear on issues of racism and xenophobia, and I think he will find that the Right has a very good tradition in Norwegian policy to keep tolerance up as one of the fundamental social values. That in political debate in many European countries we have seen items that we do not like, I am not in doubt for a moment, and that goes into parties that I think Thorbjørn Jagland too will probably see that he may not have calculated immediately. I do not think it is right here to make a continuous comment on a closed election campaign in Denmark, but he should be absolutely sure that my position is as firm and clear as it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e334	It was positive to hear the principal opinions, which I also knew that Jan Petersen has. My supplementary question is about what action he thinks can be taken here in Norway, what can be done here in Norway in order to avoid similar developments, where the situation in the fight against terrorism is just used for the type of agitation and to promote political positions seen in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e341	The debate has now turned to what might be done in Norway, and here I believe that exercising political leadership is one of the most important things. It is very important to stress that the fight against terrorism is not a question of fighting civilisations, between religions or between ethnic groups, but a struggle that humanity must fight against the terrorists. As the international coalition has held very well together across religious dividing lines, across what some theorists think it should be, it is an expression that fear of alienation and the terrorist attack should not be linked. The attack of terror was an attack on humanity. I have to say that I am very happy and proud that on a broad front in Norwegian policy there has been a willingness to exercise this leadership, and Jagland will be absolutely sure that the sitting government will continue and participate in and exercise this leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e346	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e350	It was the Danish Social-Democratic Head of Government who both issued new elections after 11 September and also opened a debate in Denmark on immigration and refugee policy, very meriting, because it is an important debate in all countries. I would like to know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees that there should also be a more open and free exchange of views on these issues in Norway, rather than being completely stopped and closed by left-wing journalists and the former government. They were able to do it. I would also like to be confirmed that the Norwegian Government will of course have a normal relationship with the likely new Danish government, and not – as the Minister of Agriculture has suggested – to fight against a new government led by the leader of the Left in Denmark, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, whom he obviously wanted yesterday to kick out of the international organisation they both belong to. Can I get a confirmation that the Norwegian Government will have a normal relationship with the new Danish government and will not carry out any penal expeditions as was done against Austria?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e357	First of all, the answer to that is: of course. To the first question, I have to say that I totally disagree with Carl I. Hagen's situation description. I think we have a good and open debate on these issues, but there is also a debate that is value-oriented, where we are clear about what we think is right, and what we think is not right. I expect Hagen to respect that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e364	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e367	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The majority of the population decided in spring to add a total of NOK 16 billion in the form of NOK 6 billion in capital grants and NOK 10 billion in the increased loan and guarantee frameworks. The party strongly warned against this in view of the fact that Statekraft could then have such a large market power that they would almost have monopoly power in the Norwegian market, and that electricity customers could eventually be hit by even higher electricity prices. Unfortunately, we now see that our predictions are about to come true, as Statkraft is constantly buying up smaller power companies. My question therefore becomes: does the Council of State share the concerns of the Progress Party and, of course, also of electricity customers about this development, and what will the Council of State do, if any, to prevent such monopoly development?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e374	I think it is very valuable and important that there are different actors in the Norwegian power market. The end-user, households and industry shall have options between different alternatives. This is to the benefit of pricing in Norwegian power. But I totally disagree with the representative, Mr Vaksdal, when he attributes the role of Statkraft in the market to the reason why one does not have the satisfactory dynamics of the power market that is desirable. I was a little concerned about it in my reply to the representative Sylvia Brustad. There was a compromise during the discussion of this matter in ours, and it ended up with State power adding NOK 6 billion to increased capital. It is important that we have a Norwegian player who is strong enough to take care of Norwegian interests in a Nordic power market. The power market is likely to become more and more internationalised. For the time being, there is an open Nordic power exchange, and it is important that there is also a Norwegian operator. At the same time, you have to take into account that you don't get a monolithic structure, and I understand that this is what the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, is concerned about, that Statkraft should have such a dominant role that they de facto decide, so to speak, the pricing of Norwegian power. I believe that the Nordic power exchange will counteract such unfortunate trends. I believe that the Storting through the treatment that was carried out made a reasonable balance between the two reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e381	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased to see that the Competition Authority has begun to look at this matter and to the extent that it has the same view as the Advance Party has here. State power has the objective of becoming a leading Nordic energy company, and that's all right. What we see, however, is that the company is essentially expanding domestically, with the consequences for competition that I mentioned in my main question. I would therefore like to follow up with the following questions: Could the Council of State expect to intervene against Statkraft, and ask for the future expansion to take place outside Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e388	What is the basis for my handling of Statkraft is the framework for which the Storktinget arranged. Such conditions as are now presented by Mr Voksdal are not part of the framework conditions. In that case, I must come to Stortinget with new premises for Statkraft's operations in the market. I believe, for my part, that Statekraft has a satisfactory competitive power, and that Statekraft has done a very good job. It is also reflected in the significant returns that we have been able to use to increase welfare, etc. Within the framework put at the disposal of State power, the sensible arrangements are made and good strategic choices are made. I believe that there is no need to change the assumptions that the Storting itself has recently made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e395	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e398	Since there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right in foreign policy, I will ask the following questions to the State Council and party leader Jan Petersen: The right, as you know, went offensively into the election campaign on two main issues: taxation and school. The right has now presented its state budget. They are proposing tax reliefs of DKK 1.5 billion. They provide tax relief for the richest, while there are students and students who have to pay for the purchase party for these richest ones with cuts in the education budget of about One and a half billion kroner. The students marked their disgust two days ago. The councils told the newspaper before the government change that people would notice the difference when they came to power. I am tempted to ask if Jan Petersen does not get a fluffy taste in his mouth when he looks at the contents of his own budget. Is this really a fulfillment of the election vows of the election campaign for a better school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e407	Here the President will recall that the questions will be raised to the Minister. It will be up to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen himself to decide whether he will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e410	Yes, Mr. President, I should probably resist the temptation, but I'm not sure if I can. I have to say that this, with all due respect for the questioner, was a bit of a funny question, because it was about the same thing that Enoxsen asked. I think I gave a reasonably adequate answer to the question then. As far as I can see, there is now a lack of challenges in the field of foreign policy in order to soften the next week's financial debate. I'm sure that might be interesting. As for my position on the budget, I have to say that this is the first budget that we have had the opportunity to deal with, and it has been a few weeks that we have managed it. In this context, I think that we have started well at the implementation of the matters we have promised the voters. The questioner probably remembers that Enoch nodded in recognition of the fact that we have come a long way when it comes to tax matters. I also gave him an answer when it came to school. With regard to the very question of funding for studies, I would like to point out that of several commitments made in the field of funding for studies, two of them are already included in this budget. So when the question was summarizing, I just have to say that as a first budget, this is very good as an opening. I think the questioner should rejoice until next year's continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e422	One can see that the council liked to talk about school before the election. But after the election, it is not as tempting to be challenged on the topic of school policy. I am tempted to note that Kjell Magne Bondevik was right in his statements before the election on the Right Policy: ‘It’s not enough to say ‘a better school’. ...I believe the Right goes too far in promises of tax relief. It will weaken our ability to increase efforts in areas where this is absolutely necessary.’ For a government, it is the government budget that is the most important governance instrument. The right now had the opportunity to take a concrete and offensive approach to school policy, but what we experience from the Higher State Council on school issues is that she refers to the Sem Declaration and the next four years. I am tempted to say that with this defensive opening in this year's proposal for the state budget from the Right, I think it will be many, many years before the Right's promises in the election campaign will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e434	This, I think, was quite a fundamental misunderstanding. When I didn't go any further in giving answers to these questions, it's because we have a division between the councils. However, I was tempted in two rounds to respond more to school policy than to foreign policy, so I am going with great pleasure into these questions. I must then be allowed to repeat that in the budget we show the first changes in what is a main question for us, namely increased hours for the kids. Today, in the evening post, we give a warning about one of the other main questions, about how we put up the teacher's education. Two of the three commitments in terms of student funding are included in this budget. I am aware that the Labour Party obviously has the task of seeing it negative in all. But I just have to say that here I actually think that when we meet the voters in four years, we will be able to show good results. We're already on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e443	The next main question comes from Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e446	In the Sem Declaration, the government has stressed that the Government’s gas policy is based on a desire to stimulate so-called CO2-free gas power. In this way, it is positive that a public sample has been set up to explore the possibilities for developing a more environmentally friendly natural gas technology in Norway and is due to be set up in March. In the opinion of the SV, it would be natural to await the suspension of this public sample before any agreement is reached on the construction of a pipeline for the planned conventional gas power station in Forest. Does the Minister for Oil and Energy share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e453	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik began by referring to the Sem-Declaration. She would like to continue. There is a lot of sense in the use of natural gas in Norway. ‘The governance of cooperation will make more use of natural gas for domestic value creation. ... There is therefore a need to invest in the national distribution and use of natural gas.» But the support that the Government wants to contribute to should be within the framework of our international environmental commitments. It is therefore not appropriate to finance the transport of natural gas to so-called conventional gas power stations. The government is now working on a gas message, which I hope will be presented at the end of the spring session. Here the Government will specify and detail the legislation applicable to such support as the Ingvild Vaggen Malvik refers to. The amount of co-financing must also be discussed by the Government, priorities between different projects in question must be assessed by the Government, and the Stortinge must be invited to participate in and discuss how to implement such an important policy, which has to do with both value creation and environmental management. It is therefore not possible to specify more precisely the expectations that Industrialkraft Mid-Norway had to have for a planned gas pipeline into the forest. If Industrial Power Mid-Norway already wants to take a decision now, they will then have to make their assessments on the basis of the more general wording of the Sem document to which I have already referred. We cannot come back with concrete amounts, and we cannot foresee any concrete support until both the government and the magnificence have had their discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e467	I thank you for your answer. I would like to ask the Council of State a follow-up question: how does the Council of State respond to the procedures of the public inquiry coming? I did not understand that the question was answered specifically. Will normal procedures be followed in relation to the possibilities for public discussions on this important issue, so as to link the public investigation to the natural gas impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e474	I can answer that affirmatively. Of course, all those who are now working on questions related to this important matter will be heard. Their views will be taken into account in the assessments made by the Government regarding the design of a regulatory framework for the co-financing of the environmentally friendly use of natural gas in Norway. Therefore, I would just like to confirm once again that the enthusiasm that may be in certain environments in the Trendelag for the estimated amount of aid for a gas pipe, in my view, seems to be somewhat excessive. I have not been able to predict where this pipe is on the priority list, nor the amount of any amount of support that you would have to arrive at.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e481	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e484	I will ask Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen the following questions: As reported by the media recently, some leaders in the North Alliance in Afghanistan have denied allied forces on Afghan soil. What does the Council of State intend to do to prevent the North Alliance from establishing a new oppressive totalitarian regime in Afghanistan, after the Taliban totalitarian regime has fallen by Western military power?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e491	I agree with the basic premise that Stensaker puts down on his question, namely that there is no solution in Afghanistan that is not problematic. We have to remember that the basis for the military actions this autumn is that the Afghan regime has given bin Laden the security and the territory he needed. It was therefore necessary to limit the room for action of bin Laden's assistant. That was the basis. It has not been said that there is not every reason to ask questions about alternative regimes. And that's why, in the debate that was in the Security Council last week, I just underlined that kind of question, not least stressed that reprisals should not occur. I noticed that representatives from other countries did too. With regard to the political solution in the future, I think the most correct and important thing we can do is to give the United Nations back coverage in the efforts they are now making, namely to try to create a political solution to the conflict. A roadmap was drawn up by the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for how this was to be done, and it received full support from Norway and other countries. We just have to admit that steering Afghanistan from the outside is not a simple operation, to put it that way. After all, the population of Afghanistan has just had a solid tradition of opposing external governance. But I hope and believe that just the United Nations can reach through and find a political solution that both the Afghan people and the outside world are serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e504	I thank the Council of State for the answer and will ask the following additional questions: Winter is now at the door, and many civilians in Afghanistan are facing a disaster with regard to hunger and cold. Will the Council of State contribute to the redisposal of part of the Norwegian U-aid to disaster aid to Afghanistan in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e512	I fully agree that there is now a significant humanitarian challenge in Afghanistan. It is not created by the events of the harvest, but by many years of mismanagement and also natural disasters. The paradox in the situation is that what has happened this autumn has caused the emergency aid to Afghanistan to come to a very, very large extent. Norway has a very important task from the turn of the year. We are then the leader of what is known as the Afghanistan Support Group, and we are currently setting up this presidency. In addition, the size has now just granted over 300 million. SEK, of which 200 million. During the last few weeks, humanitarian aid came in Afghanistan. And that Norway will continue to make a significant contribution to relief in Afghanistan, I can assure Stensaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e519	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e524	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Sigbjørn Molvik to the Minister for Church and Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Church and Culture, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister of Justice, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Britt Hildeng and Torny Pedersen, respectively, to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e540	‘19. October this year the Catholic priest Father Nguyen Van Ly was sentenced by a so-called national court in Vietnam to 15 years in prison and 5 years in house arrest because of his struggle for religious freedom in Vietnam. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to influence Vietnamese authorities to release Father Ly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e547	Freedom of religion is guaranteed in the Constitution of Vietnam. Vietnam is also a party to the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, such as the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. ensuring freedom of religion. Therefore, if Nguyen Van Ly is convicted for his religious beliefs, this is not only highly critical, but also a breach of Vietnam's international obligations. As far as I understand, the Vietnamese authorities claim that Father Ly is convicted because of his political activities and not his religious commitment. We have also been informed that Father Ly is not accepted by the Catholic Church in Vietnam, nor is the Vatican expected to support his case as a representative of the Catholic Church. Several countries, including the United States and the EU, ask questions about the judgment against Father Ly. Nor are we convinced that he has been given a fair trial and judgment. I will therefore take Father Light's case up with the Vietnamese Minister of State Cam when he comes to visit Oslo tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e556	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think it was very positive that he wanted to raise this matter with Vietnam's Secretary of State. Vietnam today appears to be a liberal and open society for visitors from outside, with advertising for Coca-Cola, Kodak, IBM, Nokia, etc., and with good opportunities in terms of, for example: to invest and establish new enterprises. It can therefore be easy to forget that Vietnam is one of the few remaining Communist one-party states in the world. And as for the possibility of criticizing the government, there is little tolerance and transparency. The Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly and Buddhist monk Thich Quang Do, who was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize this year, have appeared as two of the foremost advocates of freedom of speech, freedom of religion, democracy and human rights. The only criminal act that Father Nguyen Van Ly has done is, as far as I understand, that he has set up a banner outside the church where it says: We demand religious freedom. [[President clubs]] In addition, he has written a little booklet demanding religious freedom. Now it seems that the Foreign Minister understands that he is convicted of political activity. I would like to ask for a closer study of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e567	I referred to what was claimed by the Vietnamese authorities, but the point is that I now want to take this matter up with the Deputy Minister of State tomorrow, because I share the description that Rise has given here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e572	I think it is very positive that we fully agree on this matter. I just think it's important to point out... I almost have to ask if this clock is correct. It's at 38 seconds. When I start talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e579	The president's sorry. The President may have forgotten...
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e582	I'm getting a little confused. And I actually thought I had two minutes on the first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e587	No, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e590	I'm sorry. As I said, I think it is positive that we agree. I think it's important to look at what this priest has done. I had the opportunity to visit him on April 9th this year. He was under house arrest. I asked him, what is your crime? He then told me that he had written a document containing nine points on democracy and religious freedom and distributed it to people. So he has written in a paper that Vietnam has signed the International Convention on Human Rights. He has referred to what Sections 18 and 19 say, and thus made it known to the people of Vietnam that they have these rights. But the government doesn't seem to tolerate criticism. It is positive that Norway has now started a human rights dialogue with Vietnam, and I could imagine how the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue this dialogue with Vietnam.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e597	I would first like to say that the information that Rise now provides is useful for my conversation with the Deputy Minister of State tomorrow. So I just have to sign back for them. When it comes to attacking the human rights dialogue in a broader sense towards Vietnam, I have to get back to that question. I think, among other things, that tomorrow's outcome of the talks could give me some important signals to assess that question further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e605	Then the president will remember that the questions have one minute, while the councils have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e611	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The recent focus has been on differences that the VAT system leads to between the transport industry at land and sea. For example, VAT must be calculated. in the case of transport between installations of the State Road Service if it is carried out on a refrigerated basis, while land transport is exempted. Construction work for road construction works is exempt from VAT. whereas equivalents at ports are VAT-compulsory. What is the reason for this, and will the Council of State consider proposing to make proposals to equalise the charging system for these two industries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e620	It is somewhat unclear to me and to the department what is involved in the issue, but I would like to give a general mention of the VAT legislation in the field of transport that might help clarify it. Goods transport is a service subject to VAT. This obligation is generally designed and implies that it does not matter which means of transport is used. Establishments carrying out such transport shall calculate VAT payable on turnover, while retaining the right to deduct VAT received on acquisitions. However, passenger transport is exempt from VAT. The representative considers that there is a discrimination between maritime and land transport, for example for transport between installations to the State Road Service. As I said, it's unclear what this is meant to be. However, specific rules have been laid down in the VAT legislation in relation to public roads. No VAT shall be paid on services relating, inter alia, to planning, design, installation, repair and maintenance. by public roads. The exemption also covers clean transport to the place of work. However, VAT must be paid on all supply of goods in respect of such projects. Furthermore, the exemption only applies at the last stage of turnover, and it will therefore only be the person who invoices employment benefits, e.g.: services, on the public road, directly to the contracting entity, which will be the State, county and municipality, covered by the exemption. The background to this exemption is the desire to counteract distortions of competition and to create fiscal neutrality between public and private road operations. Without this rule, it would pay for the State Road Administration, municipalities or county municipalities to use their own employees to provide the services, instead of purchasing the services from private individuals. I am concerned that the VAT legislation should be as neutral as possible. This is also stated in the Sem Declaration. The Government shall set up a selection to deal with distortions of competition in relation to the municipalities. However, I cannot see that there is a basis for introducing new specific transport arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e635	I thank you for the opportunity to explain to the Minister of Finance how this works, and I will make it very simple. When transporting asphalt, e.g.: from a State installation to the State Road Service or anywhere: when the truck drives the pavement to berth and loads it on a cargo boat, the truck is exempt from VAT on the journey. The cargo boat must collect VAT. When the boat adds the berth and loads to the truck again for further transportation, it will be tax-free to transport the asphalt from the berth to the plant. There must be a greater degree of discrimination. Construction work on the lines of the Kaia is VAT-free; there is no charge on the site. But if you come to the dock and you have to go to the dock in order for a boat to be able to add, you have to pay VAT on the Fender plant. There is, to the most extent, a distortion of competition between land transport and maritime transport and it is 24 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e644	It's as well-known as the Storting, including the questioner, that has set the percentage here, and that has thus established the legislation. I think maybe the questioner goes a little beyond the exemption that applies, which is a derogation related to public road installations. The public road legislation does not distinguish between the means of transport used – truck, tractor, tank – if you wish, but it is less relevant – boat and other means of transport. The exemption therefore covers pure transport up to the place of work. In practice, however, my manuscript says, it must be assumed that all the essentials of such transport are carried out on land. It has to be said to be an understatement, because it's about the road. However, there is no discrimination as long as it concerns public road installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e649	To me, it is completely incomprehensible that the Minister of Finance does not understand that 24 pst. VAT intended for installations connected with a boat is distorting competition when there is a VAT exemption on installations connected with road, road and rail. Is it so to understand that we are going to put wheels on the boats in order to get VAT exemptions for the installations involved in boats? Here there is a great deal of bankruptcy in the coastal freight fleet, and that is because the competitive situation is distorted for the benefit of roads. Here, opinions have been received in bigges and in Stortinget repeatedly that more transport is to be moved over the sea. It is also mentioned in the National Transport Plan that more is needed at sea. As a curiosity, I have to mention that transport by bicycle – in order to take a small side run – has got several aspects of the national transport plan, while shipping by sea has almost nothing to do with it. That, of course, is the responsibility of the Storting. I repeat the question, what is the reason for this? Will the Council of State propose equalising the charging system for these two industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e658	As it is black in the main response and in the additional answer, the answer is no. The Government does not intend to promote new derogations in relation to the VAT system and related legislation. If the representative has seen differences that the Council of State has not seen, the Council of State is very responsive to proposals that may come from the Stortinge based on the facts of the current legislation, possibly amendments thereto.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e663	I can promise the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e671	This question, from Sigbjørn Molvik to the Minister for Church and Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Church and Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e674	I will ask the Minister for Church and Culture the following questions: ‘The NRK Board considers that, despite the fact that the State budget for 1996 increased the NRK licence to complete the development of district television, the plans to separate Østfold and Nordland as their own television broadcasts are a step backwards. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Stortinge’s decision on the development of district television is implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e683	I assume that the development of district television in Eastfold and Northland is bindingly adopted by the Stortinget. After the clarification that came to light when Stortinget dealt with the State budget for 2001, I see it as of course that the NRK is following up on the Stortingen assumptions. This is confirmed by the NRK, which announces the establishment of its own television broadcasts for Eastfold and Northland in 2002. It is therefore not right for the NRK to consider going back on the plans for such shipments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e690	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as very positive. I normally assume that it is binding on the Government, and that it will be followed up to the NRK. Some of the background to my question is that, as far as I know, this matter was again postponed at the board meeting of the NRK on 12 November. In a letter to the Department of the NRK dated 6 April this year, the NRK writes the following: ‘We have therefore decided that recruitment and training of staff in Eastfold and Northland will take place in the first half of 2002 with the launch of shipments during the third quarter of the same year.’ This postponement of the Governing Board meeting now in November makes me alarmed as to whether the timetable outlined by the NRC will hold. I therefore have the following questions to the Council of State: Will the Council of State ensure that this timetable for the implementation of the decision of the Grand Duchy is now followed without further delay?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e702	Yes – in that letter from the NRK to the Department, NRK says: ‘The NRC will therefore plan to launch its own district broadcasts for televisions in Eastfold and Northland from the autumn of 2002.’» It's going to be the Ministry, and it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e712	Thank you for your positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e720	I have the following questions for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘Unlawful ritual slaughter and sale of meat to Muslims has been widespread in Eastfold. Recently a new case of halal slaughter has been discovered in the Mosse region. In order to satisfy a Muslim custom, the animals suffer from severe suffering when they are deliberately drained for blood in the slaughter process. Will the Council of State step up preparedness for illegal ritual slaughter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e729	Section 9 of the Animal Protection Act provides that animals to be slaughtered are to be stunned prior to blood transfusion. This requirement has been deepened and continued in the regulation on the protection of animals in slaughterhouses. There is no possibility of exemption from this requirement. For the same reason, no authorisation for so-called halal slaughter is granted in Norway. However, ritual legal slaughter in which the animal is stunned prior to blood transfusion is carried out in some slaughterhouses in Norway. In order to monitor compliance with the animal protection legislation, each veterinary district has a government animal welfare department responsible for supervising all animal husbandry and inspecting places where animals are kept. They are also responsible for supervising animals during transport. In slaughterhouses, it is the responsibility of its own surveillance veterinarian to ensure compliance. The State's animal health surveillance has no indication that there is a special scope for illegal ritual slaughter. In 1999, ritual slaughter was revealed in a roadless settlement in the area of County Veterinary for Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. The district veterinarian for Oslo, Akershus, and Østfold has recently followed up a case where sheep were ritually slaughtered on the farm of a farmer. A few years ago, the County Veterinary Officer of Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark reported that a trial on the purchase of a larger number of animals which there is reason to believe were intended to be slaughtered ritually. However, the attempt was averted. The current cases of illegal ritual slaughter take place in hidden and difficult places during the regular routine checks carried out. Animal owners in Norway are generally opposed to ritual slaughter, and the awareness of this is relatively high. Tips on suspicions or concrete facts from the general public will therefore help to identify such facts. As such slaughter does not occur in Norwegian slaughterhouses, nor is it permitted under the hygiene rules to market meat from animals slaughtered outside slaughterhouses, I believe that illegal ritual slaughter is not a widespread phenomenon in Norway today. The State's animal health surveillance is and will continue to be highly prepared in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e740	I thank the Council of State for the answer, as I think was very defensive. There are a number of recordings that have been made regarding halal slaughter. I have also been in contact with the Animal Protection Alliance, a comprehensive alliance, which says there are indications of this. In Eastfold, the press has been out detecting cases. I would like to remind you that this is a bestial form of slaughter and a gross violation of the Animal Protection Act. I addressed this in 1998 with the former Minister of Agriculture Gjønes, and he did exactly what the Council of State now refers to. But it has proved not to be enough. We have assessed this in connection with, inter alia, The Animal Protection Alliance, what you could do to improve relationships. Could, for example: The Council of State considers that an information brochure was produced that is distributed to those who run businesses around, so that no one is in doubt about the legislation? Another way to do this is to require producers to report deaths and causes of death in the slaughter process, so that they can take random checks and be out to try to detect this in another way. [[The President clubs.]] Then it will not be easy to apologize either. Because what you often notice is that manufacturers say they don't know the law. However, any other trader in Norway must know the basic code of business. There should be no discrimination here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e749	The President reminds us that speaking time is to be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e752	I do not understand that this was a defensive answer. I'm saying that we have no tolerance for the kind of illegality we're talking about here. The slaughter and exposure of animals to it is not acceptable. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is aware, the scope is not large. But what has been registered over the last few years is unacceptable; therefore, we must bring this undead to life. And it should be unproblematic, because there are good legal alternatives for Muslims to get to the ritual slaughter they want. When it comes to being able to survive this and prevent it from happening, we have to remember that this is about mobilizing a lot of good forces. The public must report and report to the police when they suspect that this is the case. It is important to mobilise animal owners, that they do not in any way sell or deliver animals that they may suspect may be exposed to the type of slaughter. I want to follow up the initiative of the representative Hedstrøm in such a way that I contact the State Animal Health Authority on how we can now mobilise through information, as mentioned here, to Muslim organisations, but also perhaps increase the information to the animal owners so one is sure that they do not sell animals for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e761	I thank you for the positiveness of the additional response. The council said there was no tolerance in this area, that there should be no swirling. But why is it proven that animal protection subjects who discover this are not directly being reported when there is a gross violation of the Animal Protection Act, § 9, to which the Council of State referred? Why aren't the cases automatically reported when it's so grossly outraged?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e766	I want to discuss this with the State Animal Health Authority, because I think it is absolutely necessary to pursue this and to set very strong examples that the State does not accept any tolerance in this field. This must come to life, because we have good alternatives for those who want ritual slaughter. I want to have a dialogue with the State Animal Health Authority on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e775	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The press has revealed that a number of people in Finnmark have been exposed to surveillance up to our time. Among other things, it is revealed that a number of Samers have been monitored. It has been about people with a press background as well as people associated with the Finnish Academy and the Sami College in Kautokeino. Will the Council of State take any initiative in reviewing the police surveillance service guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e789	First in general: the Lund Commission carried out thorough work on the detection of illegal surveillance against individuals as well as against environments in the Norwegian community. In parallel with this, a work was done by the historians Bergh and Eriksen. On page 227 of Volume II of their work: ‘It must be emphasised that the surveillance police did not monitor the Sami population on a broad basis at any time. A small number of Sami were registered and made subject to active surveillance measures at all times.’» As a result of the Lund Commission, we have a transparency committee. It is not known to the Ministry of Justice how many co-workers have applied for transparency. After the Transparency Committee has completed its work, I would like to assess whether the Secretariat can provide an explanation of the number of co-workers who have applied for access and the treatment of these matters on a general basis, provided that their Sami identity is known. In order to carry out their duties, the police are dependent on having contact with people in a number of environments. Outreach activities through contacts and conversations are important elements of police work. Of course, this also applies to POT. The monitoring instructions provide for POT to include, inter alia: shall provide assistance and advice to research and education institutions. Such contact improves POT’s ability to prevent acts of unlawful interference, while at the same time the service may be made aware of circumstances that are, or may develop, illegal acts. This is why POT in Finnmark has also had contact with the management of the Sami college in Kautokeino by 2000. In the conversations, it became, among other things, gave a brief introduction to what POT is working on, and why you wanted to contact. Similarly, POT has previously had contact with the management of the Finnish Higher Education College and other higher education institutions and universities in a number of other places in the country. Thus, nothing extraordinary has taken place in relation to the Finnish higher education institutions. The fact that the University of Kautokeino is a Sami college does not mean that it is subject to special attention by POT. It is a misunderstanding if it is believed that persons or institutions with which POT contacts are considered a threat to national security. It is also a point that no one – neither in Finnmark nor elsewhere in the country – is registered by POT because you are a journalist, or because of ethnicity. I remind you that Storting’s secret services agency – the EOS committee – is in charge of the monitoring service’s work. Based on the facts I've pointed out, I can't see that the issues involved in the issue call for a review of the police surveillance guidelines. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise the importance of POT having an organisation, resources and competences that meet the new challenges that the service is now facing, a complex threat picture, including: international terrorism is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e809	I'm recording the answer from the Minister of Justice. I want to address two issues related to that. First, one can get the impression that especially journalists related to the Sami environment have been monitored. Journalist Johs. Kalvemo in the NRK Sameradio has gained insight into his folder and could see there that quite an extensive degree of surveillance had taken place by various tours he had been on, visiting in Russia and also elsewhere in the North Callot, which is quite natural because these are areas where there is Samer. The same is true in relation to Odd Mattis Kneid, who in his time was the editor of the NRK Same Radio, and who is now working at the University of Finland. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he does not see the concern that perhaps, especially from the surveillance services, journalists are being examined in their actions, which are going on in full transparency, and that in this way you may actually need to have someone monitor the surveillance service. And if so, who will take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e818	As far as the matter is concerned, it is well described in Bergh and Eriksen’s book – in a way that also calls for critical reflection on how the monitoring service does its work. In the case of journalists, I've given a general answer to that. You are not monitored because you are a journalist or from an ethnic background. The fact that a job is being done is not in itself leading to an investigation. With regard to who supervises the monitoring service, we have had the Lund Commission in Norway, which was very thorough. We have Bergh and Eriksen's work, which is very thorough and came in 1998. We have the EOS service, which is an important body and is the body of the Storting. Then I will add, since I feel that it lies in the representative's question: Will I, as the Council of State, make sure that the service in its preventive work is provided with competence, competence and insight because we need it? Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e829	I thank you again for the answer. I believe that you have a right of access to your own folder that extends until 8 May 1996. It is good that people can see in what way they have been monitored, and that can affect the monitoring service in their work so that they do not get comfortable with people who seem unreasonable to be involved in monitoring. I want to ask the Minister of Justice if it is reasonable to look at arrangements that extend in time beyond that. Would it be possible to imagine that that period of time is constantly shifting, precisely because the surveillance service would have to have thought that they would be looked at in the cards, that others would be able to see the folder saying at a later stage, and that it would therefore have to be critical of the type of surveillance you carry out, and to what extent and to what extent you are doing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e838	I'm starting from the arrangements we have now, and definitely from the EOS committee, which the Stortinget has set up, and which I see as an important body. I feel that in many ways we have also acquired a historical view, both through the Lund Commission and through the work of Bergh and Eriksen. What is the situation now is that we need to have a monitoring service that is properly organised, that has resources legally and technically, but also in terms of competence, to meet the new threat situation. How to make contact concerns part of the representative’s questions to me. And I repeat my answer to the representative: I want to do what I can to ensure that this service works in the best possible way. I am absolutely sure that we agree that it should work in such a way that you register and monitor those to be monitored, and that you do not get unnecessary enemies. That's where the quality intercept is. I know the service is set on that, and I will also actively follow it up in what is my responsibility as the Council of State for this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e851	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «Last weekend, a female taxi driver from Oslo was raped at Hobøl Church. The Drosjestral, who could also locate where the rape happened, notified the police. Nevertheless, the police, who moved out of Moss, used approx. 40 minutes to get to the spot. The police were thus unable to prevent the rape. Why did the police take so long to move out, and would the police have come to the scene more quickly if the Follo police had moved out first?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e860	First a few words about the course of events. I have been informed that Oslo Taxi received an alarm from the taxi in question at 1 p.m. 05.33. I don't know. 05.50, i.e. 17 minutes later, Moss police station received a message from Oslo Taxi saying that there was an alarm from a taxi, and that they were worried that it might have ‘encouraged the driver in the car’. That it could be a rape case, there were no indications. The car in question was supposed to be at a crossroads at Hobøl Church. The patrol from Moss was immediately sent towards the specified place. The patrol ran a call-out. The patrol reported that it was in the specified area and started searching at 0 p.m. 06.15, i.e. 25 minutes after Moss police station received a message from Oslo Taxi. The concentrated search in the area of the Hobøl church, when this was the only reference point that was stated. When the patrol did not find the car in question, they chose to extend the search to include the west side of row 120. I don't know. 06.30. Oslo Taxi called the police guard and corrected the crime scene, and 7 minutes later they called again and informed that another taxi had met the wanted colleague on Row 120. After this information, the patrol, which was then close by, was fast on the ground, i.e. within a frame of 2-3 minutes. Moss police district informs that the rescue taxi immediately drove from Oslo towards Hobøl after the alarm went. By chance, the two taxis met on Row 120. There is every reason to commend the taxi driver for his efforts. So a few words about the division of labour between Moss and Follo police districts. It's in Moss's police district, as well as in Follo's police district, continuously active service. This means that the officers' offices are part of a service system at Moss Police Station and cover the entire police district. In the police patrol, there was an officer from Moss and a loner officer. As the situation is described, it does not seem that the police could have intervened earlier, even if the evacuation had taken place from the Ski Police Station, cf. the fact that the location at the first message was inaccurate and came at least 17 minutes after the alarm in the taxi had been triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e877	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. However, I must add that rape is a very serious matter that I expect has top priority in the police when it happens. I believe that the Minister of Justice and I will agree that this was not well enough handled. We actually had a case where the alarm was triggered in the car, a car that contained a GPS transmitter, and we know that the driving distance between Moss and Hobøl is a little over three miles. Such signals that are sent to the residents that the police can be on site for a reasonable period of time are not valid in this case. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State really think that 50 minutes, or up against it, is acceptable in a matter where you really have good indications about where the place is?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e886	Of course, rape is unacceptable, and of course it must be responded to. What I have had to do in this situation is to get information. What has happened is that the Moss police have obtained a log and audio file from the Oslo Taxi. It turns out that it was 17 minutes after the alarm was registered at Oslo Taxi until the Moss police were notified. It's unknown what the reason for this is. The audio log otherwise gives no indication of what is happening in the taxi. Then the police move out, and they're looking for additional information. Once they get it, they get to the place quickly. At the same time, the alarm has led to the rescue of a taxi driver. That means that many people have done what they have been able to do, based on the situation. With the information I have, the police have reacted as quickly as they can, given the information image and the information stream. If there's something that can be more effective in this, we'll of course look at it. Of course, I share the representative's concern and that with all the signals we must state that we do not accept this type of abuse. But at least in this context, I would like to praise the spirit presence both at the person who pressed the alarm button, and at the taxi driver who came to the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e895	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the reasons why the police took so long was that there are so many small roads around Hobøl Church. Now I happen to live in Hobøl, so I know the road network there pretty well. But this isn't a special situation. Most places where something happens, there are quite a number of roads leading to exactly where the place is. And I want to say again that here were many things that could have been done to locate the place more closely. Why didn't the police have contact with the taxi centre along the way, so you could have used it as a «localizer» to get there quickly? I would also like to ask: is it not that in such a serious case more districts need to cooperate better between themselves, so that you can be more cars and thus also get to the place faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e906	As can be seen from the material I have obtained, there was no clear indication of what had happened. Both Moss and Follo police districts have informed that they did not know what had happened. That's why you didn't do what's normal. If, for example: If you get a message about ran, it's routine to alert the surrounding districts. I'm not going to go into the material we've collected, but it's at least a fact that the police haven't perceived the situation so it was rape. They got the message after 17 minutes. If there's something in this that you can learn from in a good discussion with the taxi industry, I'll make sure that of course it's done, because we're all well served that absolutely everyone does their best. I have the information I have received, and based on it, the police have done what they have been able to do. But if we can learn something, so that next time we work together with all the good forces, both the representative and I will be very happy that we achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e925	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e932	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Unfortunately, it is a fact that many Norwegian women are exposed to violence and threats on a daily basis, leading to a reduction in the quality of life. Will the Council of State initiate a pilot project in which a number of vulnerable women are equipped with violent alarms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e941	A pilot project was launched in 1997, and since then 1880 clients have been alarmed, and per year. Today there are 524 alarms in use. The experience with a violent alarm is good. The alarm appears to have a preventative effect, and clients report a higher level of safety. Today’s alarm is installed in the home of the victim of violence and cannot be used outdoors. This means that the victim is given limited freedom of movement and quality of life. It is unacceptable that women and their children are thus prevented from having an almost normal life in their own community. It has therefore long been a wish for a mobile violence alarm. The Police Directorate, in cooperation with the Oslo Police District, is in the process of assessing how to launch a pilot project on the distribution of mobile violence alarms. The objective is to identify schemes that can be implemented rapidly, while providing the quality of security under threat of violence. The first part of the project will be launched in the first two months of next year. Cooperation with a watchkeeping company is considered as one option, but it is also relevant for the police to assume responsibility for operating the alerts directly. The Oslo police district has already proposed this. Experience gained in the pilot projects will take a stand on the arrangements to be put in place on a permanent basis. We will have to get back to this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e950	I thank you for a positive answer. I think this is absolutely necessary, because it is clear that the quality of life of the individual is at stake here. It is true that some people are hesitating to leave their homes of fear of whom they can meet outside. In this way, mobile violence alarms could be an excellent tool. I also register that the Council of State says that a watchkeeping company is being assessed. In this respect, I would like to ask whether the Council of State will take the initiative to provide more agencies with the support of the police in this work, so that more points of reference can be based on a permanent arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e959	What we want to do now is test opportunities. This could mean that we're trying both the GSM and GPS systems, which separately have advantages, but also some disadvantages, and then we're drawing conclusions after the trial period. Of course, we have not now taken a decision on the choice of the alarm provider. Several companies may be involved here. We aim to carry out a pilot project in Oslo, supplemented by testing in a smaller police district. But the important thing is that we know what technology gives us that we have different variables, and that we have a reaction scheme. When we look at what in sum will give the best effect of available technology, and you have a response that works, we will come back to this with practical arrangements as soon as possible. I can assure the representative – I guess I have to say it as the Council of State – that I personally have a strong commitment to this. I know a lot of cops do too. After meeting many of the women who have been exposed to this, I also know how terrible their situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e968	I thank you again for a positive angle to the problem and will end by asking another question to the Council of State: are there today many companies that produce violent alarms that have the quality you want, or is there a danger that we may end up in a situation where we get a monopoly system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e973	No, according to my knowledge, several companies may be involved. That's because, after the information that's been collected, we have models like this. built on GSM, which we know covers some places and not other places, and then we have GPS, which we know covers, but that doesn't always do if there's a lot of concrete. The point here has been not to wait for the ideal, but to try out what is incredibly much better than being locked inside their home, and then we see what in sum gives the best result. But anyway, the result is that the women we're talking about get a much greater freedom in their daily lives. That's the whole point of testing it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1001	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1007	I have a question: ‘The 2001 budget provided funds for the construction of 1 000 student housing. However, only the construction of 911,5 furniture units was offered. Oslo and Akershus-Högskolen Student Association were not promised to build anyone despite the fact that the projects would be ready to move in in the autumn of 2002. With this, the coverage of the achershuis college students will be 0 pst. What will the Council of State do to provide the students of Oslo and Akershus high schools with a proper housing offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1014	In the 2002 draft budget, the Government wants to allocate a total of 218 million. kr for the construction of student housing. This is 26 million. kr more than the proposal of the previous government. Student relations were invited at the beginning of November, subject to the final budget decision of the Storting, to apply for State aid commitments in 2002. The application deadline is set at 1 January 2002. The Ministry will then carry out a thorough evaluation of the applications received. Oslo and Akershus higher education institutions are invited to apply for State aid for the construction of student housing in line with other student relations, and the application for cooperation will be dealt with in accordance with the criteria given for the management of the grant. In the examination of applications, emphasis is placed on the existing coverage of student housing in the applicant countries, on the number of foreign students, on the number of students transferred and on the development of the student population. Specific local factors may be taken into account and the situation in the private housing market is also important. The importance of these elements has meant that the major cities and, in particular, the Oslo region have been prioritised in the distribution of commitments in recent years. It'll probably be necessary to continue this line for some time in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1021	I thank you for your answer. That was actually an all right answer. But I still have a follow-up question – it should just be missing. One of the problems with student relationships in recent years has been that when applied, it has taken a long, long time before the application has been dealt with. This year, for example: The Decision was not adopted until August to September. Well, that's a bit of trouble, because if you want to plan for the future, you're going to have to start some of those projects. You can't just leave them behind. OAS has kind of gambled a little bit about going ahead, because they figured they would come under all of these criteria that you talked about, i.e., pressure on the housing market, low coverage from before. My question is, do you see that they particularly fall under some of the criteria you're asking? And will you have an early allocation date for the appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1030	The President records that the learning curve is relatively long. I must also remind the representative Heikki Holmås today that an addressee of the presidency and refers to the representatives and councils of third parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1033	I'm not aware that the very long treatment period has been a big problem, but what I can say is that the whole system is quite complex. You could say that the result of the student housing grant depends on many factors. It depends on the allocation itself and on the overall commitment framework that has accumulated over the year and on the actual grant per year. housing. And this gives a pretty complex system that might be a reason to look at. After all, this is a budgetary question. I hope that the representative Holmås thinks it is positive that we have added 26 million in our draft budget next year. Extra kroner. As far as future commitments are concerned, these are the interactions we commit to, so that the result will depend on both who receives commitments from the department and how the communication itself prioritises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1040	I thank you for your answer. Of course I'm happy for the 26 million. Extra kroner. The problem is that they've been taken directly from the construction of youth homes, where 34 million were cut. kr. So there's nothing to shout loudly for, except for the students, and of course I'm happy for that. The councils are probably also happy to get more money on their budgets, even if it gets smaller on someone else's. There are several things that interest me and occupy me, but the most important thing is: Student relations have a problem with this with the long-term nature of these appropriations. I understand that you can't forge appropriations many, many years into the future, but it had to be okay for the student relationships to be able to relate to the government's ambitions regarding how many student homes to build, and that you can see this in the light of, among other things. demographic development. So my question is, will the Council of State take the initiative to create a kind of long-term plan, where the need is analysed and where ambitions are also determined?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1049	As I referred to, the system is quite complicated, and therefore I have been informed that the recent years have sought to simplify the system by not regulating the commitment authorisation, so that the number of commitments is only affected by actual appropriations – because at the end of the year this depends on the appropriations. It's a budgetary question. I think there is reason to stress the lack of predictability that the representative Holmås addresses. I see no reason to make this as complex as possible, it should be as predictable as possible, and then, in the annual budget debates, I rather get back to what it actually becomes of appropriations, whether it may be satisfactory for the representative Holmås. That may not always be the case, but at least we now have a draft budget which means that a few more student homes can be built than could be done with the previous government's draft budget. I take with me the advice I have received, and I will look at this system in order to make it as simple and as predictable as possible, but without considering the annual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1061	‘In the Gang of the World on 4 November 2001, a judgment was referred to, among others: two environmental workers at a primary school were convicted of particularly brutal violence. These are persons who, in their work, are exemplary for children and role models in conflict management. Will the Council of State promote the necessary measures or proposals for legislative changes so that persons convicted of gross violence are not allowed to work in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1068	Law of 17 July 1998 on primary and secondary education requires police certification in primary school employment. The police record shall show whether he is sighted, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children. The law also states that persons convicted of such abuses cannot be admitted to primary school. Such a professional ban is very special in Norway. It strongly intervenes in the idea that convictions will have a chance of returning to society. But such a rule was considered necessary to prevent sexual abuse of children at school and, as we know, also in kindergarten, where there is a similar provision. The occupational ban in the Training Act only affects sexual abuse of children, not in general. As I perceive the representative's question, it is asked for a professional ban on violent people in general, and not violence against children in particular. In my opinion, there should be strong reasons for refusing someone to pursue a profession, and as long as there is no danger to the health and safety of students, I think we should be careful to give such a ban. If we were to give a professional ban and demand a police record of crimes that could make a teacher a bad model, it might be difficult to know how much we should take. Of course, criminal acts should disqualify from school work. However, Section 29 of the Criminal Code gives the courts the right to disclaim a person’s right to hold a post ‘which, in the course of the criminal offence, has proved inappropriate or must be feared of wanting to abuse or which, in particular, requires general trust’. The Courts will then be able to assess this in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis, and this is in my view better than having a general ban on the profession in school for them and those offences. As long as we have this safety valve, I find it unnecessary to change today's rules. However, I assure you that I will follow closely in the future, and, if necessary, consider measures to this effect if it proves necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1083	I thank the Council of State for the answer and agree that a professional ban is a serious step to take. At the same time, violence is a growing problem in society, and not least in school. When one is in a situation where even the courts point out that violence is of a very serious nature and also in a judgment almost expresses shock at the way things have been done, the question is whether these are good role models. If the Council of State does not wish to make a professional ban, could the Council of State envisage including it in what should be included in a police certificate, so that an employer can take it into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1090	I think the representative Kukkestad addresses a very important problem, which is not easy to see simple solutions to. What we're talking about here more generally is the learning environment we have in school: about children, and in particular those who work at school, can feel safe and in a good and safe environment at school, which is also a prerequisite for learning away, and for learning. I look with concern at developments in school, where we see violence, bullying, racism and discrimination. You could say that the common bullying may not have increased in scope, but that the serious bullying has. We have to do something about this. When it comes to the issue of professional bans, the concept of violence is a little more difficult than this with sexual abuse. The penal code does not distinguish between violence against children and violence against adults, and there may also be mitigating circumstances in violent situations that would not be possible on the police record. That is why I am also initially sceptical about following the other proposals of Mr Kukkestad, but I am at least going to take his views into consideration, because I have said that I will follow the situation closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1099	In this case, it was the environmental workers involved, i.e. those you consider to have a good environment and would like to take part in conflict management. Then it might be particularly striking when these people are judged for what they consider to be particularly brutal violence. If you get a police record stating that you have been convicted of violence, there would be opportunities for the employer to deal with it. Or does the Council of State consider it to be too burdensome for a jobseeker?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1106	At least I won't promise anything now. I believe that this can be difficult, because there may be mitigating circumstances associated with violent epidemics, which do not appear in the police record. In addition, I believe that there can be a new debate. What's the next one? If the aim is to have good role models and role models in school, you can imagine a wide range of criminal relationships – which you have set up and are going to have a new chance – that could be relevant in such a context. But I'll take the views with me, and of course I'll follow the situation closely. I fully agree with the representative of Kukkestad that he is dealing with a very serious problem here. There can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1119	‘A survey carried out by the Labour Inspectorate at 227 secondary schools, colleges and universities shows that students at most Norwegian educational centres are exposed to dangerous chemicals without being informed of the hazards. What will the Government do to clean up this unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1126	Students and students are protected by the Working Environment Act in some cases. Among other things, parts of the law apply to pupils and students participating in practical training where life or health may be at risk. This allows the Labour Inspectorate to intervene in chemical education under Section 11 of the Working Environment Act, which deals with hazardous substances. In addition, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has recently taken initiatives to strengthen the health, environmental and safety work of universities and colleges. It has, among other things, a major conference on this matter has been held in the sector. In awarding budgetary resources, the Ministry has in recent years instructed institutions to establish well-functioning health, environmental and safety systems. Institutions shall include, inter alia: have internal control systems to ensure that activities are planned, organised, implemented and maintained in accordance with health, environmental and safety legislation. At etat management meetings, institutions have been asked to report on the status of work and we have been confirmed that good arrangements have been established outside the institutions. I am therefore surprised at the state of universities and colleges to which Konglevoll refers, which is to be seen in the Labour Inspectorate's report. I have therefore asked that the Labour Inspectorate's report come to the department, so that we can get into it thoroughly. In the case of secondary schools, the county municipality is the employer and the school owner. It is therefore the county that must ensure that the rivers in such schools are protected under the environmental protection law. However, I would like to include the input from the representative, Mr Konglevoll, in the Ministry's work on new legal rules on the working environment of students in the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1139	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the Council of State will address the matter. This is a very serious situation, and it is also important, if the report proves to be correct, that the Council of State is actively involved in the matter and ensures that it is cleaned up as quickly as possible, so that chemicals are handled in accordance with the Working Environment Act. The Council of State stated that the Labour Environment Act already applies in this area today in the education sector. My question is: will the Council of State also actively address the matter and follow it up if it turns out that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1148	When I have asked to receive the report from the Labour Inspectorate, it is precisely because I want to put myself more fully into it. The context is, as I said, that I'm a little surprised by the figures that have been generated, in the light of the legal provisions we have, and in the light of the work done by the department, which should not indicate that the scale of the problem could be so great. I have to wait for the report to finally say what we might do with this. I have to get into it before I can answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1155	I expect that we will have the opportunity to come back to this later in Stortinget. I hope that the Council of State will ensure that the Stortinge is properly and appropriately informed about the situation in schools and higher education institutions. As I said, this is a very serious matter, if this turns out to be voting, which also needs to be followed up by the political leadership of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1160	Of course, I am at the disposal of Stortinget if Stortinget wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1169	I will ask the Minister for Education the following questions: ‘The Private School Act requires private schools with grants to be of at least as good quality as the public school. Experience has shown that it may take time to make sure that the quality of, among other things, curricula, learning skills and premises is good enough. In addition, the community shall give its opinion, inter alia, because start-ups may affect cross-border schools. The Department now advises that treatment should take three to four months. With this in mind, will the Council of State weaken the law’s requirements for quality or the right of the community to participate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1178	The answer is no. I want to pay great attention to the quality of the private schools that are approved. I also want to comply with the law's requirements for the consultation of the municipality, the county council and the State Education Office. Consultation and control of curricula may take place in parallel. Approval of teachers and premises is granted by the State Education Office after a positive decision has been taken by the Ministry but before a grant is paid. On this basis, I believe that an ambition for a treatment period of three to four months is appropriate for many of the applications received by the department. In this context, I have reservations that all the necessary information is in place from the applicant's side, and that the matter is not particularly difficult to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1183	I thank you for your answer. On 12 November, the newspaper states that the government of Stoltenberg must have trained 40 private school applications; they must have remained in a drawer. State Council Lilletun in the previous government said in Stortinget that they spent on average one year on private school applications. Under the government of Stoltenberg, private school applications were treated on average a good deal faster. My question to the Council of State is: How does she get a faster trial period to cope with the training of private school applications, and does she have any evidence of these claims made by the Secretary of State, that political management should have trained private school applications in the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1192	As far as I remember, it is the Newspaper that writes this, and as I recall my State Secretary's statement, he says to the Newspaper that the Newspaper has to ask questions about the training of the former Council of State, namely, the Council of State, Gishe. I have no reason to claim that applications have been trained. What I know, on the other hand, is that it may have taken a considerable longer time to decide on applications than three to four months. In some cases it has been fully justified because all information has not been available. In other cases, there may be curative issues where all the information is available, and where the processing can take place following the procedure I mentioned in my first response, and then my ambition is that we should do it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1197	I am pleased with the answer and clarification from the Council of State. I believe that the practice and treatment, as the Council of State has explained, will be quite similar to that of the previous government. But there is still a question, and that is the problem: should schools have quality control before the new state grant, or should they grant state subsidies on the basis of a number of assumptions about quality and then have an ex post check? A back-up check can be just as bureaucratic and time-consuming and as costly as a prior quality check and, in addition, may, if one has not had good enough control from the beginning, expose students to poor quality schools. My question is: will the Council of State in connection with new schools assure itself in advance that, for example, the equality law is maintained and the quality of educational material and curricula is similar to that of public schools, or will she leave it to assumptions and then to ex post controls?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1202	So the way the system is today, and I don't have any immediate plans to change, the consultation and control of curricula can happen in parallel. The recognition of teachers and premises takes place at the State Training Office, which takes place after a positive decision has been taken but before the grant has been paid. These schools are then supervised, as is the case with all schools, and in some cases some schools have also been subject to special supervision following the initiative of the former Council of State Giske. Of course, schools are required to comply with Norwegian law, which applies to both public and private schools. This is a condition for running schools in Norway, and if you find that Norwegian law is not followed when supervising schools, there is of course no basis for running schools. With regard to the future system of supervision and supervision, if we are to amend the private school law, I must be allowed to come back to it when we may propose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1214	This question, from Lena Jensen to the Minister of Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1217	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «In connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 39 for 1998-1999 Research at a time lag The Stortinget decided that the marine sector should be one of the main areas of research. In what way does the Council of State wish to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1226	Majority treatment in February 2000 by St.meld. No 39 for 1998–99, Research at a time gap, concluded that there are five areas of particular priority in the coming years. The main priorities are long-term basic research, basic research, and priority shall be given to four broad thematic initiatives: marine research, medicine and health, information and communication technologies and research in the field of environmental-energy interception. These priorities have since the treatment of St.meld. No 39 were followed up in the state budgets. In my opinion, there is no doubt that marine research is a priority area. The authorities have facilitated the strengthening of privately funded marine research through the introduction of the R & D levy for the fisheries and aquaculture industry, which is a special feature of our research system. For 2001, the fund’s revenue base will be between 90 and 100 million. kr, and the industry's own needs and interests must be at the root of the priorities pursued. Furthermore, the private funded marine research from 2002 will be strengthened by the proposed tax credit scheme for research and development expenditure. As you know, the government is proposing to introduce an extended scheme in relation to the scheme proposed by the Stoltenberg Government in its budget. Public funding for marine research has been strengthened through large equipment investments. A new marine research vessel, which is scheduled to be completed on 1 February 2003, is, for example: cost-based at 400 million. kr. In line with the decision of the Stortingen Foundation, the return from the Research and Innovation Fund is to be allocated to long-term basic research in general and to long-term research in the four thematic areas. Marine research is prioritised in grants from the Research Council through the Fund. In addition, from 2002 it is estimated that at least 100 million. kr from the return from the fund shall be used for a commitment to functional genomics research, FUGE. The initiative is based on the recommendations of the national FUGE plan, where marine biotechnology has been brought forward as a central element. The government is also proposing to raise the fund's fund's fund by NOK 3 billion next year, from NOK 10 billion to NOK 13 billion. Public funding for Norwegian research is based on the sector principle, i.e. each department is responsible for research in its sector. The Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for research related to the education and research sector and for the main responsibility for the long-term basic research. The Minister of Education and Research will also coordinate research policy, i.e. I have a special responsibility to follow up on the overall research policy priorities set by government and enlargement. According to the sectoral principle, the Minister for Fisheries has the primary responsibility for marine research. Other departments, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Education and Research, are also involved in marine research. I will, in cooperation with the Minister for Fisheries and other relevant Councils, ensure that the priorities of marine research are followed, both through the annual budgets and through measures of increased quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1241	I thank you for your answer. This was a quick review of the existing state budget, and that was okay enough. But when we look at marine research, it is in the state budget, among other things. a cut within the Ministry of Fisheries budget for industrial research of 20 million. kr. I note that the Council of State assumes that the private sector will contribute a great deal in this area. But no matter how much we can get out of the private sector, I think it is very important that the public sector shows that this should be a main field of action, as laid down in the Storing Communication and the Committee's position. Therefore, this becomes a wrong signal, as has been stated, by cutting off the nutrient research of the Ministry of Fisheries. My supplementary question to the Council of State will then be: Isn't the Council of State concerned about the signal she sends out by cutting off the nutrient-oriented research within the Ministry of Fisheries budget, and doesn't the Council of State feel the need to address it in a slightly different way than what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1248	It's a little cut in relation to the Stoltenberg government's proposal, that's right. But that doesn't mean it's not an increase in relation to last year. I'd say there was a time gap, it wasn't just the message that was called Research at a time gap, but there was a time difference too much of the research in the handling of the research message. If you look at what happened in 2000 and 2001, and what will happen in 2002 in the field of marine research, there is no doubt that the area is a priority. And if you look at the distribution of the returns from the research fund — it’s a little difficult to interpret the figures — it’s probably that sector, the thematic area, that has had the strongest growth. I don't think that's unreasonable, because here's a very high value creation potential and therefore a very high welfare potential, and it's quite important for the settlement in Norway. So this is a field that needs priority. However, it is probably also right for the representative to point out that the private sector must make a significantly improved contribution if we are to achieve the OECD target. That's why conditions for private research, where we have at least two incentives in this area, are very important. But I also focus on the coordinating responsibility I have in future state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1255	I thank you for the additional reply as well. But I want to follow up a little bit about this with the private research, the private share. From past experience – now I’m talking in general, and not just in the marine research and marine sector – there’s reason to be a little worried that we haven’t managed to get out the research we’ve been looking for at the different incentives we’ve used. Here, the Council of State attaches great importance to private research, that in many ways it will be the answer to future research efforts. I hope to the extent that the Council of State is right, that we will be able to disburse research funds in the private sector. But I still think it would be a very important signal if the public can say that they can also increase the proportion, even if there has been an increase. So it's going to be a little bit of a bad signal when we get a 20 million cut here. kr in relation to the budget of the Stoltenberg Government. And that signal, I think, can easily be perceived so that we can't solve the funds that we really want in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1262	I am at least pleased that the representative of Rikvam is so concerned about this, for so am I. Then I just have to stress that there is no cut in relation to the current year, but it is therefore a minor cut in terms of the re-priorities we have made on the state budget in relation to the Stoltenberg government's proposal. But I agree that we have to do a lot to get the private sector to do more research. This is a sector that is not only going to benefit from tax incentives, which is becoming more extensive than the Stoltenberg government is proposing, it is a sector where a system of taxes has also been chosen, which is a special one. It is related to the fact that there are very many small enterprises in this sector, as is the case for Norway in general, and it has contributed to the construction of quite significant funds in this sector for which research can be carried out. And, as I said, since the message was presented and dealt with in February 2000, there has been a very strong commitment in this field, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1272	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘To NRK Finnmark, the Minister for Fisheries has stated that he regards universal service as a district policy instrument. What concrete measures will the Council of State promote to ensure compliance with universal service obligations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1281	The obligation to supply cod trawl concessions is one of several district policy instruments. The construction of the freshwater trawler fleet was essentially a consequence of the establishment of the frozen fish industry in the 1960s. Industry depended on a level and safe supply of raw materials, a condition that the coastal fleet at that time could not satisfy. The concession for freshwater trawlers was therefore granted to shipping companies linked to fillet facilities. This link was sufficient to achieve the purpose of the concession, namely delivery to industry. Later, the link between the shipping industry and the fillet industry was weakened, and the authorities instead imposed universal service obligations on the trawlers at specific locations and companies. Initially, the universal service obligation applied only to fresh-fish trawlers. Later, round-frozen trawlers and some small trawlers where the fillet industry had interests have also been subject to delivery conditions. I told NRK Finnmark that the Ministry of Fisheries will carry out a review of the delivery conditions associated with cod trawlers. However, I do not find it useful to look at the universal service obligation in isolation. I would like to assess this instrument, which is a district policy instrument, together with other regional, food and regional policy instruments. In this context, I can inform you that the county commitments related to the admission of participants in the cod, seine and conventional gear fishing activities, the geographical limitations of the unit quota system and other regional/geographical instruments will also be reviewed. I will come back to concrete measures when I have carried out this review. It's important to do things in the right order. In the case of terms and conditions of delivery, the so-called Ownership Committee, such as: to assess conditions relating to ownership of fishing vessels and to the law of participants, consider these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1292	The answer that the Minister for Fisheries now gave, I cannot say exactly is fit to calm down. It seems to me that the Minister for Fisheries intends to relax several of the provisions that have helped us to have employment and housing across the coast in many small communities, where people have had security for their investments, both in industrial establishments and in houses and homes. So what we're talking about here is the breach of delivery obligations. The reason the Minister of Fisheries has used for NRK Finnmark, that much has happened since the delivery obligation was linked to the trawls, I cannot see any good reason to ignore that there is actually a breach. It is then legitimized that you go beyond the terms of the concession and that the jet fleet is going to take care of it. Can the Minister for Fisheries accept that this is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1299	I would like to stress that in the review that I have found it necessary to do, and as it is timely to do, there is no indication that you should relax on the conditions. I have underlined – I also did so in my reply – that the delivery obligation and the delivery conditions are linked to other district policy instruments, and there is no indication that one should be wound up. But it is a fact that, in the 1990s, changing governments, including governments in which the questioner has been involved, have practised delivery conditions more and less in a more modest way. There have been many reasons: the ownership structure of fleets and industry has changed, the fileet industry's conditions are currently difficult, the Russian cod has made it not the same need to hold on to this. I want to take a review, so that you have legal and practical arrangements that work with respect to your purpose and that you have penalties. One of the problems today is that sanctions are not that easy to enforce. From my point of view, I would like to stress that this is a district policy instrument, it must be a district policy instrument, but it must not prevent us from looking at any system of the new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1306	I thank the Council of State for the answer and assume that when the Council of State says that it will be a regional policy instrument in the future as well, he will hold on to it. I recognise that there may of course be reasons to relax the delivery obligations of individual vessels in connection with e.g.: change of ownership. But there is a big difference between that and, on a general basis, saying that a lot has happened since the delivery obligations were given, and that it is therefore not intended to do anything, as was almost apparent in NRK Finnmark last week. I note that the Minister for Fisheries has a different view of it today, and that he will follow up on the compliance with the delivery obligations, and will try to obtain tools to ensure that it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1315	I reserve myself against the opinion that the questioner has that I have changed my position. This position and this argument I've had all along. That the questioner will assign other motives to me, I cannot answer for it. But I stress that this review is necessary, and that it is timely to do this. Then we have to draw conclusions on how this should be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1323	‘More oil companies, including BP, are now demanding new offshore workers to live in the Stavanger area. This violates several principles in relation to the employer's ability to regulate the employee's free time. At the same time, this will lead to the disappearance of dear tax revenues from District Norway. What will the Council of State do in relation to a development in which the employer gives guidance for the free time to employees, such as: where to live?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1330	I am familiar with, among other things, BP requires new employees to have a job with the company, and not e.g. to a single device on a Norwegian base. This includes, among other things: consistency with the company's desire to have flexibility in the employment situation and to facilitate the rotation of personnel working in the country organisations and on the facilities on the base. As regards the requirement for a residence address, I do not know the company's reasons for doing so. In principle, however, the employer is free to hire whomever he wants and under the conditions he himself determines, cf. However, the restrictions contained in the Act on Gender Equality and the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination between Women and the Working Environment § 55 A. The issue of access to a residence address as a condition of an employment contract is thus of a private-law nature. This means that the work environment and safety authority is not in a position to decide on the legality. The reasonableness of the permanent residence condition of a contract of employment must, where appropriate, be examined before the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1339	The government is basically opposed to legal regulation if it is not necessary to care for health and the environment. It surprises me, therefore, that the Council of State, with its answer, will actually provoke some kind of legal regulation in relation to this question. There should be no doubt that an employer is initially entitled to demand that the employee make himself available during his working hours. It is quite different when an employer initially refuses to work if they do not move to a specific place. If one goes further, the consequences of the attitude of the Council of State may be that, for example: those who work for a car dealership get into the contract of employment that they have to drive certain cars or that others are required to have a specific place of residence, which will lead to centralisation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1346	I have great sympathy for the thinking behind the representative's questions. But let me clarify again: we have freedom of contract in Norway, and I do not want to impose restrictions on that freedom of contract. This freedom of contract includes, inter alia: that employees can also address the issue of employment conditions with their organisations. If we were to intervene here in freedom of contract in addition to what I have already referred to, we would also fundamentally start attacking the freedom of agreement between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1351	There has been a general perception that jobs in the offshore sector should be available to all in Norway regardless of the address of residence. It is because oil and gas resources are a common resource. For municipalities in District Norway, tax income from these employees means a lot. Does the Council of State consider that regional considerations should be taken into account in this industry? And will such possible treatment of employment have implications for the concessional treatment of the award of new fields? What action, if any, will the Council of State take to put an end to such unworthy treatment of offshore employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1358	I would remind you that very many in the offshore industry actually live elsewhere than in Stavanger or Bergen or other base cities. I think it is very gratifying that the conditions in the industry are such that it has been possible. And I think it is gratifying in so far as this industry as other industries has a character and a relationship between the employer and the employee that makes a spread of the housing opportunities actually possible. However, we do not have to go from there to impose restrictions on the relationship between the employer and the employee and between employers’ organisations and employee’s organisations. It will have far more negative effects on the freedom of agreement in Norwegian society than I think we can overlook, if we go into regulation of this now. So the answer to the question is: No, I do not intend to take the initiative to intervene in the freedom of agreements between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1371	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The Stoltenberg Government worked actively with the decentralisation and relocation of state-owned tasks from the capital city area. As part of this work, a working group was set up to assess the future role, organisation and location of State procurement. The working group was to assume that the activities of the State Purchase should be moved to Narvik. Will the Council of State continue the process of relocating the activities of the Treasury?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1380	Let me first say that the Cooperation Government intends to continue work on the decentralisation and relocation of state tasks that can be carried out in favour of other countries than Oslo. However, the premise for this work must not be that District Norway is a client who needs state jobs as social support; it must be that tasks and offices can get a better home elsewhere than in Oslo. Taking that as a starting point and assessing different types of state activity based on the tasks to be solved and the needs of businesses for competence, I think we'll often find that we get a better state sector if businesses are located elsewhere than in the capital. With regard to the question of where the activities of the Treasury should lie, there are such points of view I would like to base. I am committed to seriously considering the proposal to add the unit to Narvik, but the assessment must be based on a principle of functionality and must therefore not have a location to Narvik as a premise. In this regard, let me briefly recall what the issue is: the administrative service of the State, with the Ministry of Public Procurement, is to be converted into the ministry. The switchover will take place between 2001 and 2003. The Department of State Procurement currently has primary functions for the ministries and central government, but in some selected areas, State procurement has specific tasks in relation to the municipal sector. These tasks relate in particular to the management and operation of framework agreements in the field of IT and as the programme secretariat for public sector e-commerce. Thus, the Statskopf department has a significantly wider impact field than a reorganised State administrative service will have. I therefore agree with the previous government that it is necessary to consider alternative roles, tasks and the organisation of State procurement. In this context, it is also important, in my view, to take into account the possibilities of looking at the whole organisation of public procurement in a wider perspective and on a free basis. On this basis, the working group investigating the future of State procurement has been given a broad mandate. The working group shall, inter alia: provide an overview of the scope of public services in the procurement field vis-à-vis municipal and state sector evaluations of the need to extend procurement cooperation in the public sector, proposing, where appropriate, organisational changes, future role and organisation of State procurement in public procurement, inter alia. based on an assessment of the efficiency potential, develop alternatives and recommendations on, inter alia, work tasks, user base, organisation, competence needs, financing, connectivity and, where appropriate, a new name for the activities to assess the future organisation of the procurement system of the Management Network The working group shall also assess the future role and organisation of State procurement on the basis of the objective of contributing through public procurement to the development of an innovative and competitive business. In addition to this, the working group’s mandate included that the group should assume that the activities of the State Purchase should be moved to Narvik. I believe in principle that it is unfortunate in that way to put the phase as a guide to the analysis, and I therefore want to await the group's other assessments before I decide on the issue of location.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1414	I thank you for your answer. I record with concern what is the conclusion of the Council of State's response. If the political authorities do not have an active attitude to the issue of relocation and location outside the capital area, I think very few businesses will come to the Council of State and say: Look, we want to be moved on, we want to be happy for it. I hope the Council of State does not sit and wait for such enquiries. They're going to give him a hard time. Here it needs an active stance on the part of the Government. There are a number of positive examples of political emigration decisions. I mention e.g. The Brønnøsund registers, I mention the relocation of the department to the National Library of Mo in Rana, which is very successful. And I think it's important to hear the State Council's clarification, that this is not just going to happen when it's convenient to move out. Does the Government have an active attitude to these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1423	Yes, but we also have an active attitude to the fact that processes must be tidy. We consider the relocation of state tasks as part of the overall modernisation effort in the state. And I must honestly say that if we look at it historically, it doesn't seem like the procedures that have been traditionally used have contributed to the relocation of state institutions on a large scale. I am concerned that we are going to have a clean process where the starting point is to find good homes for government tasks, and that the processes up to that are processes that both make the departments concerned feel that they are in the process, and not least that the employees in the business feel that they have ownership of the process. And I honestly thought that Solberg's representative agreed with those views.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1430	I agree, of course, that employees should be included in the team, otherwise such a process will not be successful at all. But my point is also: where will this initiative come from? That initiative, as I see it, must also be a political initiative. The government of Stoltenberg took many such political initiatives and was among other things. an assessment of the relocation of parts of the government's wage and staff management. A number of private enterprises have outsourced their wage and staff management departments from central parts of the country and have done very well. Is this an example that will also be followed up by the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1437	This is one of many examples that will be followed up in the ongoing modernisation work. Let me stress that in the context of modernisation, the possibilities of relocation are much greater than they have been in traditional forms of organization. But that's precisely why, if we're going to take advantage of these opportunities, and if the districts are going to feel that they're getting institutions because the institutions fit there, it's very important that the processes up to relocation are correct. It's clear there's going to be a political commitment, we're going to have strong political leadership that what can be moved out is to be moved out, but we're not going to start with the fasit, we're going to start with the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1442	Question 19 is from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs. The President cannot see that Alvheim is present, and we are currently going past this question. We go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1451	‘The contractual pension scheme allows retirement from the age of 62. [[AFP]] Many want to do less work, but receive a reduced pension if the income exceeds NOK 4000 per year. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the AFP pension is not curtailed for income up to the basic amount of the population’s security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1458	Much attention has been paid to the new sub-pension rules in the AFP scheme and, in particular, the amount of tolerance of NOK 4000. The AFP gives employees the opportunity to retire from the age of 62. However, the pension is calculated as being at work for 67 years. In other words, you can retire up to five years before the ordinary retirement age without having any bearing on the size of your pension. As you can see, the AFP is a very favourable arrangement. The scheme is based on an agreement between the social partners. As a result, it is not up to the Minister of Social Affairs to propose changes. The new sub-pension system is that you can reduce working time and receive a partial pension for the time you don't work. If income is reduced to, for example: 60 pst. of previous income, he shall receive 40 pst. of full retirement. If it appears that the pensioner earns more or less, the pension share shall be adjusted accordingly. However, a tolerance of NOK 4000 has been applied so that no deviation shall result in adjustments. This amount of tolerance is set for administrative reasons and has no connection with the former amount of free movement of the basic amount of the population. It was in the context of the income statement in 1997 that the social partners opened up in order to charge part-time pensions. Before this one had to stop working completely to get the AFP. The previous rules on the combination of pensions and labour income were not adapted to access to a partial pension. It turned out that a good number of workers could receive a higher income by making a partial pension rather than continuing in full employment. This was also pointed out by the social partners. The question of finding more appropriate rules was left to the so-called Early Pensions Committee. The committee's proposal for the new pro rata system was followed up by the previous Bondevik administration in autumn 1999 and carried out under the Stoltenberg government. The intention was to make working more favourably than taking out a pension. Norway is well-known for its high dependency burden as a result of an increasing number of older people living longer, while at the same time seeing a clear trend towards increased early retirement. It is therefore important to have arrangements that motivate us to continue working. At the same time, it is necessary to meet the needs of those who are tired after many years of working life. In this situation, one faces a dilemma. On the one hand, pensioners want to be able to earn something without deducting the pension. On the other hand, favourable sub-pension schemes will stimulate people to retire sooner and more than they would otherwise. Labour demand will increase in the future. It is therefore important to prevent the increase in early retirement. Instead of having favourable arrangements, it is necessary to avoid the labour force leaving many years before the ordinary retirement age of 67 years. Many people think that the amount of tolerance of 4000 kroner in the AFP is somewhat low. On the other hand, it would be difficult to operate within today's pro rata system. I have also noticed that the social partners, among others. LO and NHO have stated that they do not wish to adjust the amount of tolerance. So far, experience suggests that there are fewer people who take out the AFP than before, which was just what was meant by the new rules. In addition, the pension commission shall also include: address the need for increased professional activity and the need for flexibility in the pension system. In this context, it would also be natural to evaluate different rules for the combination of pensions and labour income.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1484	I thank you for your answer. It was comprehensive, and I understand that this is a complicated matter. You can pick which leg you want to put on and find different angles. But my starting point is a view of justice. So from 1 January 2002, pensioners can take out twice the basic amount of the population's money, and the disabled can take out the basic amount of the population's money once. The ones that, for example, have been in the Police and Defence Department, and politicians can make full pay in addition to the pension if they are in the private sector, and then many who may have gone tired after many years of working life, as the Council of State was about to do, will have to be fed off to earn NOK 4000. It is perceived to be unfair. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State really think it is fair that people should be drawn if you, for example, do not have the right to do so? does social work in the local government or is it involved in the courts and the like?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1493	Now it is to say that this system is primarily an agreement between the social partners, the NHO and the LO. That being said, there is probably also a basis for saying that the starting point is that it is the working line that counts, and that you don't have to get into a situation where it pays to take out a contractual pension when you're 62 years old, by then you can have an income that exceeds what you would actually have had if you had been in work up to 67 years old. In the case of special age limits, early retirement with the AFP is something a worker should be able to choose freely, and special age limits in the occupational pension system involve not only a right but also an obligation to end up in a position at the age limit. On the other hand, there is also a clear need for a review of the special age limits in the public sector, which can be in the most favourable form. But I stress that this is a relationship that, among other things, is held by the social partners, and there is also a relationship such as the pension Commission. will assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1500	I agree that the social partners have negotiated this scheme. But there's a third party in this system, and that's the state. So, as far as I know, the scheme was put into effect from August 2000 by a political decision, and the Workers' Party and SV actually voted against reducing the limit to NOK 4000. Before that, it was 1G. That is why it must be a political matter that we in the Grand Duchy can address. From an employer's point of view, it is very difficult if you need a little help right away. You might have someone who's left a year ago, who knows the job very well. If you get a disease at the farm and call the person who is AFP-retired, you get the answer that unfortunately he cannot, because he will then make $4,000 and the whole AFP-retirement scheme will go. It can't be socio-economically reasonable either. The community will make money to get these 62-year-olds into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1507	That's about 60 pst. workers in Norway covered by the AFP scheme, not 100 pst., but 60. It is clear that this scheme provides a possible retirement for 62-year-olds, but the starting point was that this scheme should be for the worn-out workers. There is also a slightly different AFP scheme for the public and private sectors – just for emphasising it. The AFP scheme in the state is financed by the State budget. In the municipal sector, it is the employers who finance it, i.e. both municipalities and municipalities. In the private sector, however, employers cover most of the pension expenditure, while the government covers 40 pst. of current expenditure on pensions for the 64, 65 and 66 years old. That is, the state also covers about 25 pst. of the total expenditure in the private sector. The amount of NOK 4000 is not a change in an amount that was there in relation to 1G earlier. It came as a result of changing the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1514	We then go back to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1521	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. ‘Can a user of a personal assistant scheme, who has responsibilities for employers himself, require proof of good conduct to be provided by the personal assistant before the conclusion of the contract?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1528	Public service users, and in particular children, must have the security to avoid the abuse of trusted persons. In order to protect children from contact with persons who have committed an infringement, a certificate of good conduct may be required for different groups of staff, such as: persons employed in kindergartens, primary school and child protection. Today, there is no legal basis for requiring a police record and proof of good conduct in the case of employment in the health and social sector. Paragraph 12 of the Criminal Code mentions a number of groups for which a certificate of good conduct may be required for employment, including some groups in the health and social sector, but personal assistants do not belong to them. As regards the health and social sector, the Stortinget has previously addressed the issue of police attestation and certificate of good conduct and in Decision No. 406 14 June 2000 ‘1. The government presents an assessment and legislative proposals on how to ensure that children applying for health care do not encounter health professionals who have committed sexual assaults against children or unauthorised persons.2. The government, in an appropriate form, provides a broad assessment of how children and other particularly vulnerable groups face the public and/or private sectors, in addition to the health and growth sectors, are to be guaranteed against abuse and legal certainty and security.» It is necessary to address these issues on a broad basis. A public body has been set up to review the Criminal Registration Act and to draft proposals for a new law on police records — the so-called Criminal Registration Committee. The government will come back to the question of demands for police clearance and certificate of good conduct, etc. in the health and social sector when the setting from this sample is available. The selection timing is expected on 1 March next year. The term of office of the Committee shall include, inter alia: the selection shall ‘review existing rules on the use of police attestation and criminal record in relation to background and personnel accreditation/authorisation’. This will provide the necessary basis for a broad review of the broad assessment of the protection of children and other vulnerable groups requested by the Storting. Users of the scheme of personal assistants for people with disabilities will often be children, and some may be unauthorised. These are vulnerable groups that need protection, and I am committed to providing these security and security against abuse. I would therefore like to return quickly to this question when the criminal record committee's suspension is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1548	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that the Norwegian law does not allow the presentation of a certificate of good conduct to adults who are in need of help. Unfortunately, it has been found that both child and adult support contacts and personal assistants have, in some cases, committed serious maladministration with the user of services in many different areas. I personally feel that there is a weakening of the system when it is not possible to guarantee that helpless people receive help that can be trusted from the public, and I am even more incomprehensible that a user of personal assistants who takes responsibility for the employer himself should not be able to ask for proof of good conduct, so that you can be sure of the service you receive, that there is no infringement. I see it as the Social Minister will come back to this once the sample has presented his work, but could imagine a follow-up question: what does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1557	What I think is that these vulnerable groups, which should have the same security as everyone else, should be sure that the persons – and the services – with whom they have daily dealings should be fit. As I said, I'm going to follow this up quickly when the criminal record committee's suspension is available, because I have the same intention as the representative Alvheim, of ensuring security.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1565	I will ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The grinder group, with its 35000 added, has unique competence and thus decisive importance for the oil and gas industry. The ring effects are large, for example for the supplier industry and for different regions and communities. Rogaland is a example of the last, 2,300 people are added to Kværner Rosenberg and Kværner Egersund. There is a proposal for a long-term financial solution for Kværner. Will the Council of State act to secure such a solution and thus also secure jobs and competences in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1574	Kværner ASA has a major global activity, with 35,000 employees working together, of which approximately 35,000. 5 000 in Norway — and as the questioner says, there are about 5 000 in Norway. half of them located in Rogaland. The company is therefore large in Norwegian context, and as Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I am naturally concerned about the development of this company. It is well known that Kværner has had financial problems over time and that it has been necessary to raise new capital for the company. In this situation, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has welcomed the fact that the board of directors, management, employees and some of the largest shareholders of the autumn have on several occasions asked for meetings to inform about the situation of the company. On 30 October it became known that the company together with the largest shareholder, Yukos, and the company’s financial creditors had come up with a solution that, in the view of the board, solved both the short-term liquidity problems and the long-term capital needs of the company. The solution shall be presented to the shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting on 29 November this year. I note that the Board of Kværner, the largest shareholder and the financial creditors have jointly come up with a solution that, in their opinion, solves the problems of the company. This is positive, and I hope you will find a solution that can restore confidence in this company, both among the customers, suppliers and financial institutions, and of course among the employees, thereby ensuring the jobs and competences to which the questioner refers. Aker has today advertised in the media — and they address the shareholders of Kværner for the general meeting to be held on 29 November. What is now happening to the General Assembly is, of course, difficult to know. My position on the matter has been and is that it is the shareholders and the board of directors that together with – of course – the financial creditors have to solve the problem that the company has raised. It is not a problem that has arisen in the last month or two, it is a long process and some strategic choices that have been made in the company, which has resulted in your getting where you are. But as I see the matter, both the short-term and long-term problems that the company is in have to be solved by those who have so far worked to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1589	There's a cross of unreality about today's situation. The size and government are in different ways concerned with stimulating new businesses. In this case, the same actors have little visible involvement in securing 5,000 workplaces, with the knowledge environment they represent, and the ringing effects they get. It tells about the need for a strategy, for a national capital base that can secure strategic businesses on Norwegian hands – the last of which will be returned at a different rate. But now there is a negotiated long-term solution for Kværner. The board, the banks, a number of the shareholders and the members of the shareholders are behind. The solution is not ideal, but it is currently recommended. It is a complete disappointment that this solution can secure jobs and competences in Norway. It's important. What does the Minister of Industry have to say about this, and what can he do in such a context? Will he act to ensure full disintegration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1598	It is quite correct, as it is said, that the Stortinget has repeatedly stressed the importance of stimulating new businesses. I can't see that Stortinget has expressed the importance of saving companies that are on their way to – I was saying – the other end of such a line. I can't see that in a situation like the one we're in now, there are instruments that are relevant to use. If it is the case that the current shareholders are not willing to spend more money, and the creditors who have shot in approximately. 10,5 billion kroner, nor is it willing to spend more money, I find it unnatural to start using taxpayers' money when those who should be interested in securing these values are not willing to do so. Whatever the outcome of this case, I believe that the things that are life created in Kværner – all or part of it – will go on. And of course, I have no opportunity to go out and say that I support one shareholder group over the other, or that one solution is better than the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1612	There is a large shareholder who has submitted a proposal that has been rejected by the banks. I stress that the proposal currently put forward is recommended by those who hold the jobs and competences that I think it is important for the Minister of Industry to commit to securing. It's not just about jobs, but it's actually about a unique competence for Norway. There are 1 700 jobs in Stavanger and 600 in Egersund. But it is in addition to 400 in Lier, 130 in Høyanger, 90 in Odda, 100 in the Baltic Sea, 80 in Kristiansand, 550 in Bergen, 50 in Moss and 900 in Oslo – together, as the Minister of Industry said, about 5,000 jobs. Does the country have a Minister for Industry who is interested in assessing any alternative other than that currently negotiated? Does he do anything in that context? The Minister of Economic Affairs has a common opinion on so many and many things. He must, of course, have any idea of the turbulence that has now been created in the case of Kværner, and that can mean a flight of knowledge. There is stability Kværner now needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1619	As far as knowledge transfer is concerned, I note at least that the questionnaire in Dagbladet today supports the group representing the most distant alternative from Norway. It is not my job to make recommendations to the General Assembly in Kværner about what they should do and what they should not do. Although employees have taken a position on the matter, it is nevertheless the case that a qualified majority at the general meeting is required to decide on the matter. It would, in my opinion, be totally inconvenient if the Minister of Industry were to make recommendations as to which course the company's top body should choose in such a situation. I do not think that is relevant. On the other hand, it is clear that attention needs to be paid to trying to contribute to the areas of the country that are particularly hard hit by any bankruptcy. But going in with state funds at this point is not, as I said, relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1628	President! Only one open misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1633	A little extra comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1636	There are no government funds the query here has been recorded, it's an engagement by the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1642	I have explained that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1650	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Risdal Touring AS in East Agder has been working for a long time to create the express bus Kristiansand-Arendal-Oslo. Licences have previously been refused on the grounds that the train will not have more competition on this route. The rejection represents a breach of good competition policy and weakens the important express bus offer in South Africa. Is it the policy of this Government to provide for maximum free competition in the transport sector, so that Risdal Touring AS can be granted immediate authorisation under the application of the company?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1659	On 5 October of this year, the Ministry of Transport took a decision in the Kristiansand-Arendal-Oslo case following an application from Risdal Touring AS. Express buses have already been authorised and established on this route by Nettbus’ South AS, the Sørlandsexpressen. In addition, there is the Sørlandsbanen route service. Under the Transport Act, a test of the need for authorisation for regular passenger services shall be carried out. It shall include, inter alia: a balance is made between the adverse effects on other established on-board services and the benefit of a new offer to collective users. In the case of permission on the route Kristiansand-Arendal-Oslo, the adverse effects on the train were considered to be such that the application from Risdal Touring AS was rejected. Risdal Touring has complained of the Ministry's decision of 5 October this year before the expiry of the appeal period. The complaint is currently under preliminary treatment in the Aust-Agder County Municipality, and will be dealt with in a normal manner under the administrative law. I would therefore have to come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1668	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But let me point out that East-Agder is a state that absolutely needs the best possible passenger transport service to the central places of the country. In the county, the availability of both planes and trains is rather heavy for many travelers. Express bus offers are too many inhabitants of East Agder, both the most accessible and flexible offer you have today, as well as a private car when you go to Oslo. The market suggests that there is a clear need for an expanded express bus offer here. It may not be possible for this government's policy to limit transport services that people appreciate and prevent free competition. Let me put it this way: the Council of State should immediately make sure to allow East-Agder an expanded express bus offer to the Central East. And once again, it can't be possible for this government's policy to prevent competition in the transport sector or to be so undemocratic that people in the South will be denied an extended transport offer, which is what the vast majority of South Africans want.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1675	Of course, the Minister for Transport is also concerned that there should be a good collective offer for those living in East Agder. The Sem declaration is fairly clear that we regard express buses as a good means of public transport. As I said before, it's allowed on the route, while we have a good rail service. The bus has the advantage that it is more flexible than the railway. That is why we take a positive view of express buses. But as I said, it's already been granted permission. In relation to this specific matter, I cannot express myself, because it is under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1684	I will register it, and thank the Council once again for the answer. But at least I will remember what the Council of State said in this Chamber a week ago, in the last question hour, about a somewhat similar matter: «I want a more liberal rights policy. Although this will be able to compete with the railway system, it is most important for me overall to establish a better collective service.’ This statement from the Council of State last Wednesday should be a good promise. I don't think at all that extended express bus routes, as I mention here, will mean something special for the train offer, but I think it would be a competitor for a private car on that edge of the country. An expanded expression bus offer Kristiansand–Arendal–Oslo will have both consumer, competitive, district and environmental positive aspects if private car use decreases slightly as a result of increased express bus offers. So once again, I hope, therefore, that the Council of State will provide a favourable treatment, as soon as possible, of the appeals to Risdal Touring to establish this expression offer Kristiansand–Arendal–Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1694	I'll promise to take the matter as soon as it gets to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1702	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The new E18-parcel in Westfold has been put into service and the new toll-funded quadruple highway is given only rosy mentions. But discount schemes for commuters, who have to buy annual cards to get the best discount scheme, seem stiff-legged. In practice, it is said that 5000 kroner of Christmas pay will go to the annual map of work trips. Employers advance and withdraw the refund over the year. May the Council of State help to change the discount scheme to give 50 pst. reduction also on other types of subscription?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1711	The basis for discounting is, among other things, that regular road users are not subject to an excessive financial burden. Discounts shall also serve as an incentive to choose payment forms that provide rational traffic management and low collection costs. The principle is that the number of passages paid in advance through the toll station should be discounted. The more passes the road user has paid in advance, the higher the discount the road user gets. Toll projects on public roads are subject to the State Road Service’s charging guidelines for all toll projects in Norway. There is no special adjustment for Vestfold. It has been decided at local level in Westfold that the discounts should be in accordance with the applicable tariff guidelines. There is no decision that suggests that some groups, for example: commuters, shall have a special discount structure rather than other groups. I believe that today's discount structure is very beneficial to road users. If 50 pst. A discount would be linked to a smaller number of trips, which would result in lower revenues for toll companies than foreseen and would lead to a longer period of time before the boom could be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1720	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though I might have expected a slightly more pragmatic solution to the financial challenges of the cohabiter when travelling to work in his own car. Many of those who have a work trip to the Oslo region still have two bombs they have to go through – the Lier bomb in addition to it in Westfold. Documented work trips that provide pollen with a discount, without one having to have an annual card. With the Government's replies, the Left does not contribute to simplification, when it knows that employers are going to advance, and that they are also going to be in charge of collection of the refund. the growth of red tape. Could at least the Council of State help people with documented work trips to get paid through autogiro or other schemes, so that they can do it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1725	The guidelines from the State Road Administration are simple. As you can see, they are in line with both the policies of this government and the Left. In the case of the Lier boom, it was established before these guidelines arrived, so that it cannot be fully compared with the project in Westfold and other recent toll projects. But it is still an objective that we should have simple solutions that are good for road users who travel. However, we need to deal with the common guidelines given in this area, including: in order to remove these toll stations once the project and funding have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1730	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The reason for the question is that through these toll stations there is no difference between transit traffic and workers, if not paid NOK 5000, which is a relatively large sum, in annual maps to get the maximum discount. In addition, there are also leads for the advance of a new road towards Tønsberg in the toll charge. Does the Council of State understand the frustration, and does the Council of State think that this makes it easier to place toll stations on other road projects, when this goes up for people? Many feel led behind the light when toll companies operate such a rigid collection policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1737	The principle for these toll stations is that they are there to obtain income for the project. In the case of Vestfold in concrete terms, there is local outreach on the projects that are in progress, and therefore I believe that the aspects of payment systems in the tolling stations have also been considered locally. I trust that when such road development comes to the Ministry's table, and is to be adopted in the Stortinget, you have weighed locally for and against in terms of payment systems, and that you have found that there is an acceptable way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1746	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Hordaland Road Office and the municipality of Bergen want to build a new four-field plot along the south entry path. The construction is ongoing according to plans that are 22 years old. With the exception of the Fjösangerkreuz, the Road Agency refuses to revise the plans. The municipality of Bergen refuses to use provisions on the impact assessment of the plans. The pollution problems of the route are high today, and new fields should give 60 pst. increased traffic by 2015. How will the Council of State prevent new motorways towards Bergen from being built contrary to the Constitution § 110b?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1755	The parts of the tributaries in Bergen on which there has been a discussion are Sørås-Hop and Hop-Vjøsanger. Sørås–Hop is built and roughly planned in the mid-1970s, but there was no traffic on the parcel until 1983. Hop–Fjøsanger was completed and opened in 1988. The entire section was roughly planned as a four-field road, but only two of the fields were completely completed. What is to be completed now is to complete the road from two to four blocks by completing the last two fields of the route. It is correct to expect a significant traffic growth in Bergensdalen towards 2015, and that a large part of it is provided for coming in a different direction. Traffic growth is a consequence of an expected increase in activity in the areas south of Bergen. In addition to general traffic growth, traffic forecasts also take into account traffic growth generated by increased housing and business start-up in the southern parts of Bergen. Thus, it is not that an extension from two to four fields in a separate entry path is the cause of an expected traffic growth. Traffic growth will be independent of the extension or non-enlargement of lower entry stages. A road network that is not adapted to traffic will be congested, with congestion problems, increased pollution and increased accident risk as a consequence. An overloaded road network will also result in a breakdown of traffic on the secondary road network, inter alia. residential streets and roads with pedestrians and cyclists, with the disadvantages this brings to those who live and live in these streets. Let me also stress that the development of the road network is not sufficient to improve the accessibility and environmental problems in Bergen Sør. It is important that public transport too be developed. In this context, I would like to refer to the Bergen programme for transport and the environment adopted by the Municipality of Bergen and the County of Hordaland. As part of this programme, the municipality of Bergen wishes to make an offensive contribution to public transport, including: urban runways. I believe it is of the utmost importance to achieve such a collective effort in Bergen, and show among other things. to the Government’s proposal to grant 5 million. kr on the next year's budget to support the planning of the urban railway. I intend to make a proposition about the Bergen programme in spring 2002. The extension of a branched entry path will be implemented in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. In this case, the environmental qualities of the project are ensured by the design process and by following the noise and air pollution guidelines applicable to all types of new road projects. I therefore have no reason to believe that the rules and guidelines after which the completion of this year of entry will be implemented are contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1768	I thank you for your answer. I think there is one thing that both the Council of State and the SV fully agree with, and that is that the answer to the traffic problems in Bergen in the future must be the urban runway. The problem is that we have an asphalt alliance that sets the road first – so here too. Twice, the Road Office of Hordaland has facilitated and extended four areas of this route without the rights of the parties and democracy being respected in the planning process. And on a question from me, the then State Council Odd Einar Dørum strongly criticized this and promised to look after Hordaland Road Office. So now we're facing a third extension, to four fields, where those who feel the consequences have as little rights as possible. I therefore do not agree that the Constitution is being followed in this respect, because the Constitution must ensure the right to environmental information, so that people can participate in decision-making processes and act on it, in order to ensure the environment and health. [[The President clubs.]] So those who now feel this extension of the body have not been given the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process – I hear that the president clubs, and I'm going to base it on the Council's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1779	As I said, this is a way that is planned for a long time back, and what you're doing now is implementing what was planned. But once again, I would like to stress that it is important to think about comprehensive solutions, precisely in order to protect the environment as well. That's why the Bergen programme is about much more than just road, it's also about public transport. And there I see that it's important to get it in place as early as we can, so that we get just this whole solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1784	I thank you again for the answer. I believe that people have not been allowed to participate in this decision-making process – when this extension is due to take place. I would like to remind you that five good associations have approached various authorities to get the opportunity to participate in the decision-making processes. I also remind you that the County Environmental Protection Department has asked for the environmental review of this extension. The argument used to avoid the impact of enlargement is that it is about completion, as the Minister of Transport has also said. I would then ask, does the Council of State think that this argument would have been used if it had been about the extension of a factory that emits poison? I totally agree that it's important to see the whole thing here. Now increased traffic on this road route will lead to cork in the next area, which is Denmark's place. There are no plans to expand Denmarksplatz. I would encourage the Council of State to withdraw the plans and see them in the context of the Bergen programme, so that you can get the whole thing that the Council of State just spoke about so warmly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1795	The expansion is planned for a long time back, and we get a traffic increase here that we probably wouldn't get out of the way whether this road is being extended or not. I see it as a major problem if a lot of traffic should go on the secondary road network, in residential areas and the like, because I see the threat to the environment and road safety as even greater. But I'm taking with me the recordings I'm now getting, especially in relation to looking at the whole thing and finding good solutions, both prosthetic and environmental, for Bergen. There are recordings that I want to take with me in the future, and especially when we're going to continue working on the Bergen program.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1803	I must be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘After tolling/bombing has become the new way of financing road construction in Norway, this has resulted in high costs for disabled people. In Oslo there is an exemption for disabled people with parking certificates, while in many other places there is payment. Will the Council of State provide for the exemption of this group, whether it is called a bombardment or a toll station?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1812	The principle of toll collection is that the user of the improved road section as a result of the toll-financed development will pay for it. Disabled persons are also road users and are therefore initially required to pay, in line with other road users. Tolls are therefore an exception to this rule, which was established by the Ministry in the early 1990s. The reason for this is that the Ministry considers it natural to limit the tolling scheme, as these are located in urban areas with a relatively well-developed collective system. The exemption would then be linked to the exclusion of public transport for tolls. The reason for the exemption for persons with reduced mobility would be that they would be able to choose little to use collective means of transport, as others can, in order to avoid the tolling charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1817	I think it's a bit of a strange problem. Governments say that disabled people are users in line with everyone else. I don't want to view them as users in line with everyone else. Unfortunately, they have to use a car. They also get special cars, and they get their own parking card so they can park where they want. They can also drive freely in the bombings. But I understand at the Council of State that she does not intend to do anything about this in terms of the bombings. After all, that's a big cost. When there comes a toll station like Springland, you have to pay 145 kroner per. way. That's $290 to go on a visit. Does not the Council of State think that this is an unreasonable extra burden for those who nevertheless have difficulties in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1822	When it comes to facilitating people with reduced mobility, I think it is important to find good transport solutions. The principles are that, in the case of toll collection, it is the users who have to pay. There are several groups in our society who think there should be discounts. We have guidelines in this area that we follow – and are followed by such toll projects. When there are no tolls, there is also a requirement for PRMs to pay for the use of this road.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1827	I understand that the Council of State won't do anything here. On the contrary, she will assume that she wants ‘good transport solutions’. I would like to ask the Council of State what she means by good transport solutions for these out in the countryside, where there is no alternative whatsoever but to use a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1832	It is true that there are some people with reduced mobility who have a car and who will have difficulties using other means of transport. It is reasonably well arranged, as far as I can see. These arrangements are outside my area. But when it comes to paying for infrastructure, which everyone has to pay, it will still be added that this group that is being asked for will pay on the same line with others, except in the tolls, where there is a completely different public transport service than in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1840	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Total costs per passenger and kilometres on trains versus express buses are an important societal issue in order to get as good a offer as possible to travellers. What, as an example, are the absolute costs per passenger allocated on a route on the Rørosbahnen between Tynset and Oslo?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1849	The State purchases passenger transport services from the NSB on the Rørosbanen for between 50 and 60 million. kr per. years. The new train offer at Rørosbanen introduced in January 2001 includes, inter alia: a total of five departures each way between Røros and Hamar on weekdays, with 90 seats per day. Take-off, and 11 departs each way between Rena and Hamar. Travelers from Tynset to Oslo use two state purchase products, the Rørosbanen and the intercity train Lillehammer-Oslo. The train change takes place at Hamar. For the products in question, the purchase of 51 million passenger train services is envisaged for 2002. kr on the Rørosbanen and 62 mill. kr on the intercity section Oslo-Lillehammer. Insulated to the Rørosbanen, the purchase of services by the State represents a cost of between 200 and 250 kroner per year. travel. In addition to the funds used for the purchase by the State of passenger services by train from the NSB, the Railway Agency has spent on average over the last 10 years approximately an equivalent amount for the operation, maintenance and investments on the Rørosbanen each year. For 2001, it is used approximately. 60 million. kr for the operation and maintenance of the Rørosbanen on the Tynset-Hamar route. Passenger traffic on the Rørosbanen affects infrastructure costs south of Hamar only marginally. Distributed by approx. 240 000 annual trips to the Rørosbanen correspond to the annual costs of infrastructure roughly on average 250 kroner per year. travel. I would like to point out that it is generally very difficult to allocate the infrastructure costs to the number of passengers, both because most of the costs and measures are passenger-independent, and because the freight traffic on the road is also a cost driver. We need a good railway in Norway. That's why it's important to spend money on the railroad. It is also important to have a good road network that is both road-safe and provides better accessibility. So when we're going to choose between rail and road, it's going to be about what solves our challenges best, both in the short and long term. That is why I believe it is important to bet both on the railway and on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1860	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good response, which I will later go in and look into. We've got some numbers. Now, when I hear those numbers, the question becomes the Council of State: how far can the Council of State go for how much a ticket should/ should cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1867	With regard to the prices of the various means of transport, I would say that it is important for the choices made by travellers in choosing their way of travel. That's why it's important for us to think about, when we're going to buy these services from the NSB, what are good solutions in the short and long term. We want to have a network that is a good and environmentally friendly alternative to road transport. So I don't want to give a concrete answer about the level of ticket costs. What is important for me to give a clear signal about is that rail is also important as a means of accessibility and transport in Norway. That's why we're still going to bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1872	I thank you once again for your answer. The most important thing for the Advance Party and me is that the travellers will get the best offer possible. I'm sure we all agree on that. But when you just take the 59.8 million. kr, which is support for the NSB, we know that there is a bus company there called Østerdal Billag, which says that with 59.8 million. kr they can drive at least 20 free departures per. 24 hours. This must make some bells call for all of us. When we also know that there's talk about changing sleepers on this distance for 350 million. kr, which is not included in the reply to the Council of State, for the passenger train to be able to run as fast as it is intended, and when we also know that there will be thoughts and plans for electrification of the track to a hitherto unknown sum, this will be quite high total costs per. passenger. Doesn't the Council see that it would certainly be a good thing that a bus company did this job, perhaps in a better way, or that we put out the operation on offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1881	There is no doubt that this government is positively adjusted for the use of express buses. We've expressed that on several occasions. We see that the use of a bus provides a flexibility that maybe the train at its times is missing. But we also see that the railway is an important forward-looking means of transport. That's why it's important that we continue to bet on the railway, that travellers see it as attractive also to travel by rail, because we are able to raise our eyes and look ahead in time, think long-term and find good, long-term solutions. This does not necessarily conflict with the fact that we use express buses as a good means of transport in certain areas of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1890	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘In connection with the examination of the future structure of the defence, Stortinget decided that the use of Rygge’s main airfield should be re-examined by 15 September. The working group has provided its position and it is known that it concludes differently with regard to the economic gains by shutting down all aviation activity at Back than the one underlying the previous government proposal. When will the Council of State present this matter to the Stortinge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1899	I want to thank you for the question. I can confirm that the working group set up by the previous government concluded that within the operational requirements and framework of the Air Force, it would not immediately be a financial gain by relocating the business at Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller. In this context, I would like to mention, among other things: refer to the press release of 2 October and to letters to the Defence Committee of 17 October 2001 from my predecessors in the Council of State. However, this government has in Appendix No. 4 announced the need to assess changes and adjustments both in the defence strength structure and organisation, which should be followed up in a separate spring proposition. Work under way also includes an assessment of further rationalisation of the Air Force. Like the previous government arrangement, I especially look at the business of Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller. In this context, it is important to consider new options, including: in the light of NATO’s needs and future Norwegian transport and tanker capacity needs. I am prepared to conclude on the future business of Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller in connection with this work, which I am therefore aiming to present to Stortinget approx. at Easter times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1908	I thank you for the answer, and have a certain understanding of the need to see the situation in Back in context also with the activity at other places, at the Gardermoen and Kjeller, when you're about to have a new review. The worrying thing in it is related to the uncertainty in which you will live at Rygge and the other places. There is a fear that there will be a flight of competences during this uncertainty period. A company has also been set up that wants to open up civil air traffic in Rygge, and it is desirable to clarify as quickly as possible so that it can continue its work. But I want to ask the Council of State about it in that assessment, so when you also pull in the Gardermoen and Kjeller, there's another possibility that you can keep flying at Rygge Air Station.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1917	It was during Storting’s treatment of the proposition – i.e. in connection with Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 — 13 June referenced the potential that could lie in the sale of Kjeller by moving workshop units out of the Air Force Supply Command, LFC. That's what made the Storting decide to investigate this further, as well as the possibility of moving all or part of the workshop business to one of the Air Force stations. In the investigation initiated by the previous government, strict professional requirements of the Swedish Aviation Agency for the military use of the Gardermoen, especially in test and exercise flights for fighter aircraft and helicopters, were raised and changed the assumptions for which establishments could be added to the Gardermoen. So in the light of this, we're going to look at it again. I understand the representative's concern about that with a sense of competence. It is a general problem now when we are faced with the changes in the defence, and therefore I will endeavour to make a recommendation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1924	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I would like to hear that at least there is no less chance that there may be flight activity and perhaps become a new activity that can replace the movement of the fighter aircraft on the Rygge Air Station. I hope that those signals can also be given in such a way that we can retain the skills on the Back in the months that may be necessary before the Council of State concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1929	Then I would just like to say briefly that of course I do not have competence in my field, which is the Ministry of Defence, to have opinions about civil aviation. But that there should be opportunities for activities at Back in the field of military aviation, that's right, and that's also one of the things we're now investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1934	If I can just give a brief comment: I understand that this is outside the Ministry of Defence's field of civil air traffic, but I would nevertheless ask the Minister of Defence to bring it into the assessments, because it will help to reduce the costs of military operations at the airport if civil air traffic starts at Back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1944	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘There is an increasing desire within the Maritime Defence Management to locate the entire MTB fleet of Olavsværr. Does the Council support such restructuring of the MTB fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1953	As I had in my previous answer, the Government has announced that it will present a proposal for spring with any proposals for changes and adjustments both in the Defence Forces Structure and Organisation. In this context, of course, the Maritime Defence Organisation must also be examined. But, of course, until any proposals for changes are made, the decision of the Grand Duchy applies. And in the case of Olavsværr, Stortinget's decision is that Olavsværr as a war station is being laid down and continued as a base under Ramsund Warsstation to support MTBs and submarines when they're going to operate in the north. I want to make it clear that the Storting has not decided that there should be fixed stationing of MTBs at the Olavsværr. It is therefore, with the existing decision, important to distinguish between what is a support function and what is a fixed station. However, in the review I'm going to do, where I'm going to make some sort of recommendation about Easter times, I'm going to place great emphasis on the rational operation and potential for further savings for the years we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1962	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad that the Council of State will choose to follow up the decisions that the Storting has made in the past, and that would probably just be missing. The council says that she will come back to this matter in the spring, and I look forward to that. There has been a lot of uncertainty about the Olavs protection for many years now, it's just to remember that the Workers' Party has been working actively to try to put down the Olavs protection. So I'm at least happy to be surprised that the Maritime Defense now works quite actively to increase the activity in the northern regions, and that's probably also the result of Reitan at Bodø being closed down in his time. Things have happened this fall that makes the defence presence in the northern regions more topical. The minister said that she would come back to the spring with this matter. Does the Minister then also aim for this matter to be settled in the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1973	Yes, my clear intention when I suggest Easter times as the time of presentation for a proposition, is that everyone is well-deserved that we have a decision before the summer. There has also been a clear signal to those organs in this house that will have to deal with such a proposition. Then I would also like to make a few comments about the questioner's premise on the question, namely that there is an increasing desire in the Maritime Defence management to locate the entire MTB fleet to Olavsværder. I perceive that the signals I have received from parts of the Maritime Defense department have been that when you set up a new Skjold class, there are some people who could imagine that the Hauk class could be more reindeer cultivated for the northern regions. There has also been a discussion about whether the June decision could be interpreted in the direction of continuing eight Hauk MTBs, or 14. The conclusion of this government has been 14, and this, of course, increases the possibility of presence in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1980	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to my question to the Council of State is the media essays at the beginning of November, where a part of the Maritime Defence – quite high up in the system – arranged to station the MTB class at the Olavsværder. Now many parties will be affected by any conversion of the Maritime Defense. There are a lot of jobs involved, and a municipality like Tromsø must take account of, not least, the employees and their families. If there is a conversion and you choose to move the MTB fleet to Olavsværder, how fast could this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1989	Of course, I want to be careful to anticipate some conclusion of the work to be done towards a spring proposition. I think in this round I will limit myself to pointing out that in the decision that was taken on 13 June, both Sortland, Ramsund and Olavsvermn as the base, and that a practical challenge we have in front of us, will be to find a somewhat slimmer structure than this one represents, and that it is the whole of the economic package of Defence that we get to spring, which will determine the level of ambition we can put on in the future of Maritime Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e1997	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Hunting and fishing have long traditions in Norway. Too many people, it's an important source of recreation. This quality is important for us to develop and take care of for future generations. Then it is important that everyone has this possibility of hunting and fishing. The Workers' Party wishes to fix the framework prices for hunting and fishing on a private basis. Will the Council of State follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2006	I fully agree with the representative Brustad that hunting and fishing are an important part of the outdoor life of a very large number of Norwegians. We must therefore ensure both the availability of hunting and fishing for all those who want it, and not least work for sustainable stocks for taxation. However, access to hunting and fishing differs from other open-air goods by not being covered by universal service. The right to hunting and fishing is initially granted to the landowners. In addition, in addition to the outdoor objective, consideration is given to the agricultural industry referred to in the use paragraph of the Game Act. Similarly, the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act provides that the harvest shall also be carried out for the benefit of rightholders. In St.meld. No 39 for 2000-2001 on outdoor life – which I know the representative is well aware of – as the previous government presented, it is assumed that agriculture will increasingly need to draw income from the outreach industry, including hunting and fishing. It says, among other things: an attempt must be made to develop varied and attractive offers which may also provide income to landowners. Provision is made for card types and price frameworks for fishing, small game hunting and wild reindeer hunting in the general government. Otherwise, there are no price adjustments of these goods. It is produced by some as if someone would let the market control the prices. The point is that today it is up to the individual landowner to determine the prices. Then you'd have to consider whether it's the prices that limit access. 191 000 hunters’ fees paid for the 2000–2001 season, and a total of 350 000 hunters’ registrations. Over several years, environmental protection authorities and rightholders – and this is important – have cooperated in developing operational plans for the management of the harvested game and fish resources. The purpose of this is to enable rightholders to take a much greater responsibility for the resources. At the same time, operational plans shall ensure that the population is provided with a wide and varied supply of hunting and fishing, thus contributing to strengthening the nutritional importance of the land resources. As regards the issue of the framework prices for hunting and fishing, the previous government in the same Communication stated that it will change current practice and provide the Directorate for Nature Management with a new basis for setting framework prices for different hunting and fishing offers. However, it was stressed that such a permit should be used with great care where hunting and fishing are included in combination with overnight accommodation and guidance and that it should be carefully investigated. I am referring to the fact that the Co-operation Administration has not drawn the outdoors message and that it is now under consideration in the Committee. The size will therefore have a good opportunity to discuss the issue of hunting and fishing prices, including the need for such a safety mechanism as the proposal on framework prices is intended to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2023	I think the Council of State is a little bit unclear in the answer. What I think is good in what the Council of State says is that he wants everyone to have good access to nature. But I also want to say here, as I think I said in the previous questioning, that it is actually action that counts, not words. I record that the Council of State is trying to make a distinction in the rights of the general public in relation to hunting and fishing on a purely formalistic basis. For the Workers' Party, being able to hunt and fish is also something that we define under public rights, that there is something that everyone must be able to do, no matter how rich or poor you are. I would also quote a colleague of the Council of State, Bjørn Hernæs from Hedmark, who said to Hamar Arbeiderblad on 14 August this year: «The market must determine the price. ... hunting, fishing and tourism are big growth industries. What the owner wants, and what users are willing to pay, must determine the price of hunting and fishing.» This means that the market has to decide. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2037	According to the law we have today, it is free pricing for hunting and fishing outside the state public domain. There's also a system that former governments have gone into and behaved to. Actually, letting the market run is what's been happening all year long. So the question is whether you experience a pricing that is so unreasonable that you should intervene. And I confessed, at least according to the information I received, that former Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Environment, Stein Lier Hansen, did not know examples that made a price cap in and separately necessary, but that it was for preventive reasons. Therefore, it is a bit misleading to stop ‘ville prices of hunting and fishing’ – it was a newspaper title last day. But I think it is an important matter to look at, so Stortinget also has the opportunity to discuss this in the context of the outdoor communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2042	I choose to interpret what the Council of State says, positively – in that I choose to understand it so that his representatives in the Committee are released in relation to what Ansgar Gabrielsen and Bjørn Hernæs have said, that it is the market to determine. In that case, I am pleased with it, because then I see the possibility that it may be possible to obtain a majority of framework prices in this area. If that interpretation is crazy, I'd like an answer to that. The point is, when the workers' party government in its time went into the framework prizes, and in the context of the message we are now going to process: Preventive consideration is one thing, another thing is that in parts of the country it's gradually become so expensive that not everyone can afford this. It's a development that the Workers' Party wants to prevent. That's why it's important to clarify what the state council here means. If it is in the fact that his representatives in the committee have freer lines than the former Right-wing representatives have had, I am, of course, pleased with that. Let me also add: When the Council of State says that agriculture has to collect income from elsewhere, I assume that it cut by 300 million. Mr President, as the Government has stated, we shall not be compensated for by more expensive prices for hunting and fishing in that order, because we are at least out on completely wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2049	It is a great misconception that the right-wing representatives mentioned by the representative have been in favour of making hunting and fishing more expensive. They have explained today's legislation, namely that there is free pricing for hunting and fishing. But even with free pricing, workers' party politicians, and the former secretary of state this summer, have said that there are no ghastly examples that require such a price mechanism today. I just remember it. The cooperative government does not want prices for hunting and fishing to spread in the weather. We have as our starting point that this should be an opportunity for everyone, as it is today. Hundreds of thousands of people in Norway are hunting and fishing, based on current prices. With regard to the views of the Cooperative Administration, we have chosen not to draw the outdoor message. Then we'll look at the examples that come forward, and make a total assessment of the price mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2062	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «Rights promoted during the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2000-2001 The Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the State propose a package of measures for the water source of drinking water Vansjø. It got a majority. Lake water is a source of drinking water for 60,000 people. Waterwater was closed in the autumn for bathing because toxins were detected. The promises of the government parties in the election campaign were high, but no funds have been put into the state budget for a package of measures. What will the Council of State do to save the drinking water source of Lake Van?"
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2071	I am very concerned about improving the water quality of the Hobøl – Watercourse, so that the Water Sea can still be used as a drinking water source for 60,000 people, and still be a valuable recreational and open-air area. It is therefore important for me to refute the allegations that there is no money on the state budget to improve the water quality in Vansjø. It is also important for me to stress that the water supply to the area today is satisfactory, because of the water treatment at Vansjö Waterworks. The two main sources of anthropogenic inputs of nutrient salts to Lake Van are agricultural activities and spillages related to the watercourses draining to Lake Van. For a number of years, poor water quality has been achieved in the Hobøl–Vansjö Watercourse, and therefore several measures have already been implemented in both the sewerage and agricultural sectors to improve water quality. The County of Eastfold has made strict demands on municipalities regarding the large emissions from sewerage. The County of Oslo and Akershus have made demands for high-grade cleaning at agglomerations upstream of Akershus County. Thus, the current national waste management requirements have been largely complied with. On the agricultural side, emphasis has been placed on instruments such as reducing soil work, shifting to spring ploughing, the use of catch crops, the construction of catch ponds and the use of vegetation zones to reduce nutrient salt emissions from this sector. However, these measures have not been sufficient to achieve the desired water quality in the water lake. The government, in cooperation with the agricultural business organisations, proposes in the 2002 budget proposal that 3 million be set aside. over the Agricultural Development Fund for measures in the water catchment area. In addition, the Government has proposed a new subsidy item on the Ministry of the Environment’s budget for the work of municipalities on a comprehensive water management, of which 2 million. in 2002 will mainly go to the Morsa project. This is linked to the designation of the Morsa project as a pilot project for the implementation of the new EU Water Framework Directive. Work at local and regional level to reduce pollution problems in Hobøl–Vansjövastre is very important. There is a great deal of positive community commitment to implementing the necessary measures, which is crucial to coping with the reduction of the pollution of the Hobøl–Waterfront. The Government therefore proposes to support this important work in the Water Area by 5 million. kr next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2086	Two million. kr is not a package of measures. This is just a drop in the ocean. A package of measures is a fissure layer. This isn't a spice layer. The cost only for sewerage measures is 160 million. kr during this four-year period. The total cost of agriculture and sewerage is up to 250 million. kr. Special geographical conditions in the drinking water source at the bottom of the water catchment area require more expensive sewer solutions than in some other watercourses. Many households cannot afford these sewerage solutions. Does the Council of State have an answer to what the State intends to contribute to clearing up the challenges that are here on the sewer side? Two million. kr, is not a spice layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2093	As a preliminary point, the questioner stated that no ‘funds were put into the State budget for a package of measures’. It's added 5 million. kr in the State budget. I should have liked to put more money into this project, I admit it, but it's a tight budget, so I think it should at least be a good start. There are many projects around that I would like to spend more money on, but this project has at least been awarded $5 million. kr. It's a pilot project. Of course, we're going to work with the other actors to get a water quality that meets the standards we should have in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2098	I still claim that this is not a package of measures, it is only money to continue the project. An action package means going in with funds to solve the problems that lie there. Blue-green algae toxins may lead to liver cancer in unknown amounts. 60,000 drinks from this drinking water source, where these toxins have been detected during the harvest — and that is new. If a massive rescue operation is not implemented, this is a ticking environmental bomb. The state has been involved in action packages elsewhere in the country – Mjösa and Jären – where up to 50pst have been funded. Seawater is unique because it's a drinking water source. It is different from the other measures in which the country has been involved. SV has proposed increased appropriations for the State budget of this project. Will the Minister for the Environment make recommendations to the Stortinget to support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2103	We've put off $5 million. kr for this project within a tight budget framework. As I said, we would like to have more money for this project as well. I have no problem with the description given by the representative. We have water challenges in Norway, although on some points we are quite good. We have a relatively good water quality, but we have a good deal to go on. Of course, from the government's side, we would like to join such a split layer in the future. What I got now in the autumn until this was 5 million. kr. I've noticed the commitment, and if the Storting allows us to do that, we may also provide a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2111	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State feel that it strengthens or weakens Norway’s position in the efforts to halt the serious nuclear pollution from the Sellafield facilities that the Halden reactor is testing MOX fuel from Sellafield, and if this weakens Norway’s ability to combat nuclear pollution that threatens our entire coastline, will the Council of State take the initiative to prevent the Halden reactor from accepting MOX fuel from Sellafield in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2118	First I have to say I am very pleased that we have now had a proper debate around Sellafield, and we have also had good help from several representatives from SV, and not least the volunteer teams and organisations around. So Sellafield is a priority matter for this government. We're working on a Nordic basis, we're working in relation to the Irish, and we've also asked for a legal assessment of the current emissions of technetium 99. But what the representative Sørensen is now taking up is also a piece of the total picture that you have to show up in. The intermediate project is a collaboration between approx. 100 State nuclear safety organisations, research institutes and industrial establishments in 20 member countries. The project used the Halden reactor to test different types of nuclear fuel. The aim of the MOX research, it is said, as well as for the research on other types of nuclear fuel included in the project, is to make the use safer and more economical. At a time when nuclear power stations face increased competition as a result of deregulation, they need to verify that measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs do not adversely affect safety. In Norway, we are in the lucky situation that we do not have nuclear power, in relation to the production of energy on a commercial basis. MOX is produced both on the basis of plutonium from the reprocessing of spent fuel, e.g. in Sellafield, and from the stocks of weapons plutonium resulting from the disarmament agreements. The question has been raised about our efforts to stop emissions from Sellafield being weakened by the Halden project's MOX-related activities, which the representative Sørensen also addresses. This concern is the background to the Ministry of the Environment’s initiative to investigate the relationship between research in Halden and Norway’s work on the Sellafield case. The investigation shall be held in April next year, in good time before the Government will decide on the question of the continuation of State aid to the Halden project and any conditions under which that aid may be granted. Of the 30 sub-projects and assignments under the Halden project, six are concerned with MOX and other plutonium fuels. When Stortinget in spring 1999 treated St.meld. No 22 for 1998-99, the continuation of the Halden project, the proposed majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, including the representatives of the three current governmental parties, that the testing of MOX fuel should be carried out solely for the purpose of improving the safety of this type of fuel. Since then, there has been a growing focus on the production of MOX in Sellafield and its importance as a basis for the continuation and expansion of the reprocessing activity. The emissions from Sellafield affect key Norwegian interests. I therefore see it as very important that we do not operate from the Norwegian side which will undermine our international driving role in the Sellafield case. [[The President clubs.]] If I'm then allowed to continue with two more sentences, President, I'll appreciate it, because I think that's where the cloud is! Because we do not want to undermine our international activities and activities in this area, it may be appropriate to impose conditions for continued State aid after 2002 that the Halden reactor should not accept MOX fuel from Sellafield. The government will take a final position on this when the notified investigation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2137	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that something will be done here. In the last few days, we in SV have tried without success to map how the nuclear fuel that is transported from, among other things. Sellafield to the Halden reactor in Norway, is being transported. I wonder if the Council of State can tell how this nuclear fuel is transported and how the safety of these transports is ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2144	I have been aware that the representative Sørensen is concerned about this, and checked it before I left the department. There is no doubt that MOX waste is transported from Halden, among others. to the Sellafield plant. This is done entirely according to the IEA regulations in this area. But as we have also stressed in another context, where it is about transporting MOX from Japan to Sellafield, there is a certain risk associated with this transport activity. Now it's only a thousand percent of what you see in transport to the Sellafield plant in the future, coming from the Halden reactor. But as I say, I'm busy with the Sellafield plant. It's a very important thing for us, we can't find ourselves in the radioactive emissions that it stands for. Therefore, it is natural for us to review the activity of the MOX-bit in Halden, and if we conclude that we are using State aid in that context, perhaps that ship traffic will cease, if we are no longer going to operate with MOX in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2149	The Council of State has stated in the Newspaper that it will present a major communication on the marine environment. Nuclear pollution from Sellafield is one of the sources of pollution that threatens our marine environment. The possible future shipment of nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast could also pose threats to our marine environment. I then wonder whether the Council of State in connection with the notified notification will consider a ban on the transport of nuclear waste by sea within the Norwegian 200-mile zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2156	I want to take the recording with me in the further work. As I said, one of our appeals to the planned MOX plant in Sellafield is that it will increase the transport of waste – fuel – that we do not want along our coast. Safety at sea and possible accidents related to the transport of that type of waste must also be an important part of the marine environmental notification. Of course, it remains to be seen when I am able to present the marine environmental message. After all, it is not certain that the investigation related to the MOX-bit Halden plant is ready at the time of the notification. However, I am at least pleased that we in the Co-operation Government have agreed to assess the State aid in relation to the activities that are now operating in relation to MOX in Halden. It is a rather strong and, in my opinion, a new signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2166	«In line with the position of the Energy and Environment Committee in June 2001, the cooperation platform for the new Government decided that Norway should follow up the Rio Conference by establishing a national Agenda 21. Voluntary organisations have been very critical of the non-cooperation of the outgoing government in this process. How will the Council of State ensure that discussions with the third sector are strengthened so that the outcome is a cross-sectoral environmental perspective in line with the Sem Declaration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2173	Let me assure you that I intend to strengthen the dialogue with the third sector in the follow-up to the Rio Conference and during the preparations for the Johannesburg Summit next year. To emphasize that this is not just good intentions on my part, I would point out that during the first four weeks that have passed since the Government joined, I have had meetings with 34 environmental protection organisations and their networks, both in groups and individually. So it is not just well-meaning words from my side when I promise to strengthen contact with the voluntary sector, I focus on following up with concrete action. In contact with the organisations, I have received clear messages that they are not satisfied with the process that has been so far in terms of their involvement in the development of a sustainability strategy. They want a national Agenda 21 – a concrete action plan with a shorter time perspective. So does this government, as we signaled in the Sem statement. With this as a common objective, conditions are well suited to the constructive involvement of civil society to develop both a sustainable development strategy and an action plan, a national Agenda 21. Here, however, it is true that we do not ‘put a cart in front of the horse’. We need to complete the main features of the strategy before we start concreteising, i.e. the Action Plan itself, National Agenda 21. We want to add to a more dynamic process with the third sector in this work. In addition to the third sector, I also think about business, employee organisations, research and municipalities. We have a platform through the National Committee on International Environment, NIM, as a starting point. There is also a good basis for capturing all the positive things that are happening in cooperation between the various actors at the local level, as demonstrated at the Great Synergy 21 conference, which has recently taken place. The challenge is also addressed to the third sector. It needs to be mobilised into a broad participation process also in their organs, so that the recordings that are coming have a broad foundation on the basic plane and can provide new and bold suggestions on how to build a sustainable society together. The government wants a good communication with important groups in this process, and I therefore propose to strengthen the information business, among other things. via the Internet, not least to reach your youth. The Ministry’s Internet pages are also the most widely used on our theme pages. We are also going to use this to strengthen communication with the third sector in progress towards the summit on sustainable development next year in Johannesburg, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2184	I thank you for your answer. At the Synergi 21 conference in Stavanger, to which the Council of State referred, a group of municipalities came with a strong call to the Government to support further work on Local Agenda 21, by establishing a so-called Agenda 21 fund, where municipalities as well as voluntary groups and organisations should be able to seek support. Will the Council of State consider taking the initiative in setting up such an Agenda 21 fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2193	The government has now presented its draft budget, where we have strengthened the environmental sector by approx. One hundred million. SEK – 50 million. Collective kr, 20 million. SEK 30 million on the energy savings side. kr for research at CO2-free gas power plants and 6 mills. to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment's budgetary framework. One of the things that I would also like to have room for is such a fund that the representative Vaggen Malvik calls for, but there was simply no room for it within the framework of a 100 million increase. kr. But I hope that with the means that are now in place, we will also be able to achieve a genuine National Agenda 21 implementation. Then we are not least dependent on the municipalities now continuing the important environmental work that is taking place, as part of the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2200	In the summer, when all parties to the Energy and Environment Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, supported a continued increase in local Agenda 21 and the establishment of a national Agenda 21, the Local Agenda 21 unit of the Ministry of Environment was closed. Will the Council of State ensure that this reorganisation does not prevent a continued strong commitment to Local Agenda 21 by the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2205	I will take a closer look at this matter, and I will also look at where it is natural to place that work. I'll take this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2212	: Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-21.ana.ud2639e2227	There is no record.
