ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e69	The representative of Ågot Valle will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e72	On behalf of May Elisabeth Hansen, Øystein Djupedal, Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, I propose to grant the NRK exemption from VAT, zero rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e77	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e80	I will be presented with proposals for measures at equal fuel prices across the country. It is a proposal similar to what was promoted by the central government in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Then the President will propose a change to today's map in order to take account of the treatment in the Chamber. The President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5, 6 and 7 go out, and that they are set up for treatment in a later meeting, probably on 10 January. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e107	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Victor D. Norman The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We start with the first main question, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e123	Since this is the last meeting before Christmas, I would like to wish Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and State Council Victor D. Norman a Merry Christmas and a peaceful Christmas. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister, and it's related to kindergartens. Both the Government and the Workers' Party are concerned with drastically lowering prices, about halving the parental payment in kindergartens, and making sure that everyone who wants it has room in kindergarten. The Labour Party government estimated that we needed over 40,000 new kindergartens, and that we had to spend well over 5 billion kroner in the next four years to achieve that goal. The Bondevik government is unclear on this question. You don't promise that there will be 40,000 new places, and you won't spend more than 5 billion kroner. That's the price it costs, regardless of the financing model. My question to Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik is: Do you stand firm by the promise to secure all children who want it, kindergarten, and about half of the parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e132	First, I suppose I get a receipt from the Labour Party parliamentary leader with a wish for a good and, not least, peaceful Christmas. When it comes to the question of babysitting, my answer is yes. The government is firmly committed to the objective of full coverage of needs and a reduction in prices down to about the level now mentioned by the representative Stoltenberg. The number of locations this might require is currently uncertain. What is crucial is not the percentage that an estimate of the annual coal coverage, etc. The essential thing is the real need. And we want to stimulate a kindergarten expansion that makes everyone who wants a nursery place get it, no matter what number of new places it needs. It is also the Cooperative Government that has taken action, which the Workers' Party never did, to ensure that prices are properly reduced, not only in the public kindergartens, but also in the private kindergartens, which constitute a very large part of the kindergarten offer, by allowing the public subsidy to be collected in one pot and to go directly to the kindergartens, also to the private ones that are approved. Today, it is known that many private kindergartens do not receive municipal support, only state subsidies. That means that the prices in many of these private kindergartens are high. If we are to ensure that prices go down there too, we must have a funding system that allows them to receive both state and municipal subsidies. We can only ensure this through one public support scheme. It's been taken by the Co-operation Administration to get it done. The Workers' Party did not do that as long as they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e143	First, it is that the Workers' Party has agreed to increase the state subsidy, which goes unabated to both private and municipal kindergartens. Regardless of the funding model, it is estimated that we need something like 40,000 new places and well over 5 billion extra to provide full child care coverage and a halving of the parental payment. Earlier, when you did not go in for so drastic reductions in prices, it was estimated that it would keep to 10,000-12000 places. Now there's a dramatic increase in need, because we're in favour of reduced prices, both the Government and the Workers' Party. The problem is that the government does not commit itself to working towards getting the required number of new kindergartens, and then this becomes an empty children's hazel lift again. Now we started, with well over $1 billion in the 2002 budget. But in order to ensure full child-care, it has to be followed up by about the same amount every year. And I hear that Bondevik in his answer today is unclear at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e152	There's no reason. The Prime Minister is quite clear: we have the same objective as I believe the Labour Party has, full needs. Then it's not a number that's interesting, but it's going to be a real need-coverage. That need may also vary slightly from municipality to municipality. So we're going to continue the kindergarten expansion at a high rate until everyone who wants kindergarten gets it. Before joining the Cooperation Board, there were many scares, including: by the Workers' Party, that this government was certainly not going to maintain the high stakes of the Workers' Party government in kindergartens. When we joined and presented our revised budget, we maintained the great effort, and we are prepared to continue at a high pace, to ensure full coverage of needs. And the goal is as well known that it should be by 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e159	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e164	I am a little uncertain about whether those who have follow-up questions should also join the Christmas greetings, or whether it is enough that the parliamentary leader has come with them. We'll think that's enough. It's quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that the important thing is that there are enough kindergartens, the percentage is little important. But when you make a government budget, make plans and add up to an expansion, you have to have a target number to go after. The Labour Party government had agreed that we would build 10,000 seats each year – NOK 5 billion. The Minister for Children and Family said during the budget debate in Stortinget about a reduction in the target from 80 p.m. to 70 pst. coverage, in effect, means that the Government's ambition after 2002 is 2000 to 3000 places each year. And the Prime Minister must be precise: how many places do you have as a goal to expand in the years after 2002? In addition, the Arbeiderpartiet aimed that from 2006 all children would have a statutory individual right to kindergarten. At this point, the Minister for Children and Family was also unclear, and it will be interesting to hear whether the Prime Minister is firmly committed to the goal of a right for all to kindergarten from 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e173	I sincerely believe that the debate on 80 or 70 pst. is less interesting. The crucial thing and the interesting thing is that everyone who asks for a nursery place gets it. Whether the percentage finally turns out to be 80, 75 or 70 – or maybe 85 for that matter – is less interesting. If someone's in line and doesn't get enough space, it won't help if it's built out 80 pst. I don't think so. The point of this government is that we will continue to develop at a high rate to ensure that all children who want kindergarten will receive it, so that there will be a real freedom of choice between kindergarten and cash support. The real freedom of choice is the Workers' Party, because they have been opposed to offering cash support. Legislation can be absolutely relevant, but it is vital now that everyone has a kindergarten. It doesn't help with a law clause if you don't have an offer to give. And that's this government determined to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e180	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e184	I would like to say that I was reassured by the Prime Minister's assurance that the ambition is firm, but it is a bit striking to note that this government, as the first government, is now adjusting down the estimate that full child care coverage is assumed to be. This is difficult to interpret differently from having lower ambitions in this field than you had in the past. If you also see in the Sem Declaration, you write there that you want full babysitting, in line with the large number that you have adopted a long time ago. But what you don't write is that you have a commitment to how much a kindergarten space is going to cost. Not least the Prime Minister's own party in the election campaign had a very high profile, where you went to the country's kindergarten parents and said that we should go down to an average of NOK 1500 per year. Place – which I think was the ambition of Kjell Magne Bondevik's party. So I notice that this is not being followed up at all, and it seems now that the mutual focus in this respect is on the cash support. Cash support is the solution, not a reduction in the nursery rate. My very clear challenge to the Prime Minister is, is it really that you don't have that ambition? For this is not stated in the Sem Declaration [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e193	No, that ambition is fixed, and it's wrong when Djupedal says that nothing is done to reduce prices. There is a significant increase in government subsidies in the budget for next year, just to bring prices down. It had to be co-operative to get a grip on the fact that prices in private kindergartens would also have to be ensured. It was not with the old system, where one depended on the goodwill of the municipalities in terms of municipal subsidies. Here, I may think that the SV and the Cooperation Administration are more in line than the Workers' Party and the Cooperation Administration have been. As far as the rate of expansion is concerned, we have no lower ambitions than what we have said in the Sem Declaration, and what I have now repeated: full coverage of needs. If the percent is 85, 80, or 75, it's less interesting to me. It is vital that parents who want a nursery place for their children should have it. And it's a little strange now to see how the criticism from the opposition came. In the course of our accession, there was a pre-criticism that one was not going to maintain the initiative. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e202	The President has three more follow-up questions. It's Siv Jensen, it's Eli Sollied Uppereas, and it's Karita Beckem between Orheim. Then the president can't let anyone else go to follow-up questions. And then the president has to ask all the participants to respect the speaking time. Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e207	As we know, it's the private kindergartens that have been responsible for the largest supply of new kindergartens in the last few years. For a time, the three government parties, together with the Progress Party in Stortinget, were in favour of proposing tax incentives for employers who paid for operations for their employees. Could it be that the Government would consider thinking a little new even when it came to the nursery provision, so that a tax incentive scheme could be considered for enterprises that built kindergartens for the children of their employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e212	We have no plans for that, but it is clear that it will be a well-founded proposal or a well-founded idea, we shall take this for granted. But what this government will propose, and as I have announced, is that we should facilitate the situation of many private kindergartens that do not receive municipal grants, by getting the entire government grant together in one pot. I think that will improve the situation for very many private kindergartens, but that will primarily improve the situation for parents who have children in private kindergartens. So it was this government that took the initiative. It's a tool to bring down prices, not just in public kindergartens, but in all kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e217	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e220	The Prime Minister said that the Government will introduce a new incentive scheme for the private and municipal kindergartens. This means that municipalities substantially lose transfers from the public, transfers to the nursery sector. I know that there are high-needed kindergarten children who do not fall within the scope of ‘disability’ and are therefore not priorities for consumption. These children, with psychosomatic diseases, speech flaws, problems that can result from abuse, have mainly kindergartens in public kindergartens. These children require extra resources, and the municipalities are responsible for the total childcare provision. What will the Government do when I introduce what I want to characterize as price financing? Should a private nursery instruct to bring in these children? And who is going to cover the costs that go beyond the price financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e229	First, this applies to approved private kindergartens. They must, of course, be approved in accordance with certain criteria. Secondly, this does not mean that municipalities receive less money at the disposal of the public kindergartens. The subsidy to municipalities in the kindergarten sector shall be paid to kindergartens and only to kindergartens. The municipalities will get the same amount as before to all the municipal kindergartens. The point of this subsidy scheme is that private kindergartens that are approved should also receive the same government subsidy as municipal councils in order to reduce prices. I find it hard to understand that the Senterpartiet should not be against those who send children to private kindergartens, which make up such a large part of the kindergarten offer today, being guaranteed price reductions similar to those in the public sector. It would surprise me immensely. It's just by taking such a grip that one has the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e236	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e239	I would also like Prime Minister and Mr Bondevik to have a really good Christmas. I must say that I think Bondevik today is going quite far in giving the characteristics of the former Stoltenberg government and what happened in this field, at least when we know the history, because the story is that when Bondevik was last in charge, the kindergarten expansion in this country fell like a rock. It has never happened more in this field than after Stoltenberg took over power. More money was put in. We can talk about 70 or 80 pst. But what's crucial is how much money we spend in this sector. We know that there are many people today who do not have the opportunity to apply for a nursery because the price is too high. That's why the important political question here, as Stoltenberg also asked, is whether Bondevik is willing to add NOK 5 billion, so that we get at a halve of the price. Then I also want to challenge Bondevik with a specific question: does this mean that he wants to take out NOK 3 billion in the municipal bill that he is going to submit to the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e250	I'd like to return the Christmas greeting to my good Møre and Molde colleagues, Karita Bekkem between Orheim. Unfortunately, it's not as simple as she said, that it's crucial for kindergarten development is how much money you put into the budget. We have seen under changing governments that a certain number of billions have been allocated to kindergarten development, and then the kindergarten development in the municipalities or in the private sector has not been large enough in that budget year for that money to have been used up. It's not like just the budget is important. There is a willingness to expand in municipalities and in the private sector to determine the number of physical kindergartens that are simply being built. I think that is not least the experience of Bekkelem Orheim as a government council in the department concerned. But we stand firm for what I have said. We want a real, full coverage of needs, no matter what percentage it should mean, and we have an ambition for halving child care prices gradually. That's where I think the Labour Party and the cooperation parties stand together, and we've taken a step to get it done in all kindergartens, not just in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e260	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e263	I would like to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Today, the news on the radio announced that gas stations will be closed due to the removal of the freight balancing system on petrol and automotive diesel. We already know that we can get a cost increase of up to 50 ounces in some areas. State Council Victor D. Norman said in this regard that someone has to pay the costs, that there are limits to what to subsidize. For me, this is not to consider subsidisation, but as the balancing of distance costs. I would like to ask the Prime Minister on a general basis: does this government hold fast to the principle that it is a goal of balancing distance costs? Or does the Prime Minister agree with his State Council that there should be limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e272	The difference in distance costs should generally be offset. However, with regard to the message today that gas stations are threatened with closure because of this, I am rather surprised to say. The truth is that petrol is cheaper in the districts too today, and it's going to be cheaper next year than it was a year ago. That's the truth, because the petrol charges are reduced. So the price is going to be lower, even with the loss of a very small, non-comprehensive fractal balancing system. People in the districts will therefore drive cheaper to next year than they did a year ago. That's the truth. I heard a radio today from an SV representative who spoke very strongly against this. But, as far as I know, the SV was opposed to cutting down the fuel tax and would thus in reality have gone into the districts for a higher price than is now the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e279	It's true that the Prime Minister claims that gas prices are falling, but that differences are increasing. I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Council of State Norman. Since the new Energy Act came in 1990, we have had a system of balancing energy prices, where the same electricity price is paid regardless of whether you live in the municipality where the power is produced, or whether you live in the capital – a self-financing freight balancing system in which all consumers are involved in paying the shipping costs. Does the Council of State also consider this scheme to fall within the concept of ‘limits on what to subsidise’? Or does the Council of State want to maintain this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e288	I would first like to point out that the representative Enoch quoted me incorrectly. What I said was that all the real costs have to be covered in some way -- I didn't refer specifically to the exact shipping costs. We cannot put in place a system where all the cost differences in society are covered by public subsidies. With regard to the general issue of distance costs, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is an objective that we should reduce distance costs in Norway as far as possible. Fracturing schemes may be an appropriate instrument in this respect, but we must at the same time be sure that they work properly and that costs are proportionate to the results we achieve. The case of the cargo fee on petrol is that it does not meet those requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e295	Three representatives have drawn up follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa – and the President will let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e298	I would like to ask a question to Prime Minister Bondevik – as a follow-up. Of course, it is true that SV has not been in favour of a general reduction in petrol prices, but we have been very clear that we want a relatively equal price across the country. So the Fracturing has worked according to purpose. The millions of dollars the state has contributed, making the gas price relatively more than it would otherwise have been in District Norway. The last time this matter was up in Stortinget – that is, as a matter of its own, because it came three times under the central government of Stortinget – the central government with Bondevik proposed, with the support of SV, a self-financing freight balancing system, i.e. not an allocation of the state budget as the scheme we have today. The reason why the central government and SV went into this at the time was that we saw that there could be a danger that the scheme might disappear if we got a civil majority. Then it became a bourgeois majority with Kjell Magne Bondevik as Prime Minister, and then suddenly the whole system is removed. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Does he stand firm in what he previously thought should be a self-financing freight balancing system to compensate for the disadvantages of transporting fuel to the district gas stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e309	First to the introductory part of Djupedal's question. The interesting thing for people in the districts must be the real gas price. As far as I know, SV has opposed the reduction in the petrol tax. If they compensate some of it again through a freight balancing system, the truth is that after the cut in the fuel tax, the petrol gets cheaper in the districts than it was a year ago. That's the naked fact, and it can't Djupedal either smile or talk away from. When it comes to the question of a self-financing freight balancing system, we like to look at it. When we proposed it in the previous government, it was because we did not find that the current system was particularly good and accurate. That was one of the reasons why a different model was proposed, which the majority unfortunately rejected. Whether this would be possible with another majority now, we don't know!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e316	The Prime Minister answers the whole side of the question. The core question here is that the gas price in the districts is going to be 50 cents higher than it is today, and it's going to be 50 cents higher than it is in the central strut, because the freight equation you've had up to now is going to be gone. Mr. Bondevik I argued strongly to develop the freight balancing system, and Mr. Bondevik II proposes to delete it completely. This is not just a question of petrol, it is also a question of fuel oil in those areas that have the worst climate. There is also talk of the price of fruit and vegetables increasing by 1.25 kroner per day. kilos in some districts, and that the price of milk increases by 20 øre per. liters in some districts as a result of the position the Christian People's Party has now taken, but they didn't have in the past. Is this a fair distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e323	This government is responsible for an active policy of distribution. The central part was able to push the Workers' Party to last year, i.e. halving the food tax, making the food prices on average almost 10 pst. cheaper, even in the districts. It was Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen as Minister of Finance at first against, but he had to bow to parties in Stortinget. It was good distribution policy that we were able to get the Workers' Party involved. In the case of the gasoline freight effusion, the effect of this is from 0 up to 30 to 40 øre in most places; in some places it can be 50 to 70 øre. But it's not common with an effect of 50 cents, which Schjøtt-Pedersen now expressed. What is now the result of economic policy [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e332	Respect for speaking time applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e336	The most interesting question for people living and living in the districts is not the gas prices, but whether we have a government that still wants to have a freight compensation fund and other arrangements to limit the distance costs. We have a government that has so far profiled itself in tax squares, which we know is very biased and not for the benefit of the districts. A few years ago, the NRK had a programme that had the title: Sogn and Fjordane, Norwegian breastfed, which clearly showed the value stream that goes from the districts of the big community and that showed the interaction between the city and the country – whether we should have an equivalent living environment. Do we have a government in this country that is busy reducing distance costs, and that is busy keeping the pattern of build-up by layers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e345	We have. What I think people out in the districts are concerned about is their real costs. The truth is that at the beginning of 2002, people in the districts will get cheaper petrol than for a year back, cheaper food than for a year back, cheaper air travel than it was for a year back, will come in 2002, and they will get cheaper loans by reducing interest rates. Only half the percentage in interest rate reduction means 400 million. kr in increased action rooms for Norwegian municipalities. That's what I think people in everyday life will be concerned about. The government will pursue an active district policy. We have also highlighted this in the budget by increasing road appropriations and by improving the financial framework conditions, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have so many of them in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e352	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e355	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. When several of the leading Labour Party politicians are so interested in peace, perseverance and reconciliation today, I too, like them, will be allowed to wish the Prime Minister a really good Christmas and a peaceful new year. So I would like to ask about the economy and the use of oil money, which the Prime Minister is very concerned about, especially about the so-called rule of action. He says you don't have to spend more than that and so much oil money. For the current year, it turns out that you have not followed up all the things that were meant to be done during the year, because you have actually charged a significantly higher amount of taxes and charges than what you provided for, approx. Fifteen billion more. You've actually demanded more than what you planned in taxes and taxes from the Norwegian people. Is there a fundamental view of the Government that at the end of the year you can't make any changes to this money in terms of reducing anything on the tax burden you have, that is, refunding some of the tax money you've taken, which you really didn't intend to take in?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e362	I must also thank Carl I. Hagen for the wish for a Merry Christmas and a peaceful new year. The last can not least Hagen himself contribute to it. I also want the parliamentary leader of the Advance Party to be both Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, and as peacefully as possible both domestic and foreign. With regard to the use of oil money, there are two important elements. One is that we don't use more than real returns, so we don't eat of what's supposed to be the welfare base for future generations. There is an important argument behind the rule of action. The second important element in the use of oil money is what the Norwegian economy has the capacity to withstand, without getting a price, pay and then interest rate increase. There is our assessment that the 2001 budget became such, even now, at the end of the year following the effusion, that it has been adapted to economic developments. We know that now we've got the first of hopefully multiple interest rate reductions. We have an interest rate level in Norway that is significantly above the average in Europe. We should go down further. We have now started that, and it is important that we do not, therefore, release more money into the Norwegian economy than the capacity required. That means that I'm also not in favour of a reduction in tax rates at the end of the year. The reason for the increased tax intake is an economic activity which has increased the tax base without increasing the tax rates at the end of the year. That's why I don't think it's right to reduce the rates even if the entrance gets bigger. But for the next year, as Carl I. Hagen well knows, there is a significant tax relief that most people will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e371	With regard to the Prime Minister's statement that I may be able to help if he gets a full year of peace, I would like to reiterate that my possible contribution in this way will also have some bearing on the conduct of the Prime Minister and the political positions of the Prime Minister. It's probably a mutual addiction that I hope the Prime Minister remembers. So the prime minister says you don't have to spend more than that and so much oil money because of your return. The truth is that roughly no oil money was used at all in 2001. It was charged to spend NOK 12 billion in the original budget, and it has been spent NOK 11.4 billion less than planned. Then there has been room in the economy that has been drawn into the state treasury. So that's what you can do when you get more money between your hands. Among other things, we have In Norway too, it is a problem of poverty. Would it not then be natural to use any of these means to make life something better for those who are struggling the most now before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e378	We are fully aware that how peaceful it becomes next year, at least internally, depends on the behaviour of the Government and the Prime Minister. We think about that every day. We think about Stortinget every day, I can assure the representative Hagen about that. And then we think, among other things. even in the Party of Advancement, which is an important party in the Grand Duchy. In terms of space in the economy, I am thinking not only that one stays within the framework of the rule of action and uses no more than the real return of the petroleum fund, but also that space in the economy does not least depend on what we have the capacity to do. We still have a very tight labour market. We are committed to creating greater space in the economy, also by having controlled increased labour migration. It will make it easier to spend more money to invest for reasonable purposes, without wages, prices and hence interest shooting speed. Starting to change taxes and taxes in December, I don't think it's wise. The poverty problem is that we are actively engaged in combating, and we have put 250 million more into next year's budget than the Stoltenberg government proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e387	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen. Before I release Siv Jensen to, I would say that I understand that the representatives are concerned about each other. The President for his part is most concerned about the speaking time at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e392	I'll try to keep it. It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister justify changes in the new age with the real return on the petroleum fund, and what the Norwegian economy tolerates. When the Progress Party asked the government questions about seeing the changes in the recent ageing in relation to the action rule, we were told that the rule of action was immaterial to this new aging, simply because it was not fully operational for the current year. What the government has thus dealt with is not the rule of action, but the previously structural oil-corrected deficit considerations that we used. The reality is that we first decided to use approx. $12 billion of the oil wealth. A year ago it was said that it was very responsible, that the budget was very balanced and that this was very correct. And it was also an aged budget, for which the Prime Minister himself contributed to the creation of a majority. Then we would have revised. Then the amount had dropped to NOK 3.7 billion, and now it's dropped to zero. How can the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e403	The explanation is that there has been a significantly higher tax input, without increasing rates due to the high economic activity. But what is important now in economic policy is to have stability and long-term sustainability and to create confidence in the market, so that we can have a continued decline in interest rates. If we were to start changing the economic environment just before Christmas for the year that's about to end, it wouldn't be trusting, and it wouldn't create the stability that's needed to get further interest-rate reduction. And since the president has looked at me strictly a few times in terms of speaking time, I'm going to meet him now by ending long before the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e412	There again the president took the lost. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e418	I think I'd rather send the Prime Minister a nice Christmas card and use speaking time here to talk about the very serious situation in the Middle East. I wonder what is really the position of the Christian People's Party and the Government in relation to the conflict that is going on. The reason why I'm very surprised is that the People's Future, the Christian People's Party's own body, in its article of 7 December, has a very small flat drawing of President Arafat, as a rat, and a trendy article in relation to the balance between Palestinian and Israeli interests. But from a very large number of other teams, there are now many who protest against Israel, which is an occupying power, undermining President Arafat, who is the legitimately elected leader of the Palestinians. I would like to know what the Prime Minister thinks about Sharon's undermining Palestinian authorities, their actions in Palestinian territories, and whether the Prime Minister believes that Israel is an occupying power.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e425	It would be unnecessary for the representative Kristin Halvorsen to demand the Government's position. It has made clear several times both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister himself, including with regard to Israel's relationship with Yasir Arafat. Our perception is the same as Christin Halvorsen expressed. He is the legitimately elected leader of the Palestinians. And I think it's unwise – and has expressed it – that Israel is currently trying to declare him irrelevant. That, in my view, is not the reason. But we have also stated, and I will insist, that President Arafat should and could have done more to arrest known terrorists, whom he, as far as I know, has also been given a list of. In this way, he could hopefully have prevented or at least reduced the escalation of violence that we have now had through the many terrorist acts on the Palestinian side. But I have also stated directly to Prime Minister Sharon that I think Israel should have ended its attacks on Palestinian targets for the longest time, for this has only helped to further escalate violence in the area. So we have addressed a balanced appeal to both parties: refrain from violence, come back to the negotiating table! And it's also my appeal when someone is about to go into the Christmas weekend also in the country where the cradle was standing, which is why we're celebrating Christmas now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e432	A short follow-up question, because the actions that Israel is now carrying out in relation to Palestine undermine both the authority of Arafat and the actual ability to do something with the extreme environments such as: performs suicide actions. Israel’s behavior will only lead to an increasing number of those willing to make their own lives to cause further suffering to the Israelites. I would like to know why the Norwegian Government did not support the resolution in the Security Council asking for international observers in Palestine, and what Mr Bondevik believes is necessary in order to find a solution in the Middle East. The key here is to put pressure on the United States. It's the United States that can beat Sharon on the table, and possibly withdraw support. Will the Government take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e439	I agree that part of the Israeli attitude undermines Arafat's ability to exercise the authority he should, but the image is probably not quite as simple. Arafat had opportunities to do more in the past, and we should not underestimate the fear of the Israelis living daily when they know that among them there can be suicide candidates who put many lives at risk, as we have also seen that they have been willing to do. So the appeal must also go to the Palestinians and their leadership to do more to prevent this. With regard to the Security Council resolution, we found, after careful consideration for a few important reasons, that we would like to follow. The United Kingdom’s attitude. First of all, we believe that the resolution did not clearly and strongly distance the use of violence in general and terrorism in particular, seriously enough. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry, is it time? Then I'll come back to the second argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e446	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e449	Norway has contributed financial support to build up the Palestinian police force, and many good Norwegian service staff have also been there. But what has recently happened is that one has directly broken the police headquarters in Gaza, and then one afterwards comes and demands action against suicide bombers. So, Israel demands Palestinian action, so to speak, to deprive the Palestinians of the opportunity to actually act. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether Norway will protest against the fact that the Norwegian civil effort, through the establishment of civil police, has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e454	Just to complete the answer to Kristin Halvorsen first. The second important argument to refrain from voting in the Security Council was that the whole purpose of such Security Council resolutions must be to bring the international community together in unisonary pressure against both parties in the Middle East. It was not appropriate for this resolution. It was found, among other things. knows that the United States of America has vetoed. And one is right, as Kristin Halvorsen had in mind, that the United States plays a key role. That is why this resolution was not appropriate in its form. In the case of arrests of terrorists on the Palestinian side, it is not the case that Israel has only made those calls after bombing, among other things. police stations. There was an appeal they came over and over again before, but it was not followed up enough from the Palestinian side. That was the problem, and that was why the patience then evidently ran out on the Israeli side. But that does not mean that we from Norway support all these Israeli attacks against the Palestinian side. We've prepared that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e463	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e466	I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to elaborate a little further on why Norway abstained from voting on the UN resolution. Norway has been a driving force in its efforts to achieve lasting peace in this area, and the deployment of observers in the West Bank and Gaza would have been an important contribution to achieving this. I think the Prime Minister went a little over that part of the question from the representative Halvorsen. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister to clarify the reason why Norway abstained from voting in the UN Security Council on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e473	This was a resolution that not only dealt with the question of outsourcing observers. It also had other elements in it as the Government did not address well enough the situation in the Middle East today, because it did not take enough seriously the use of violence and terror in particular. The second reason was that this resolution was clearly not suitable for bringing together the Security Council. And resolutions in the Middle East, which are not suitable for that, are not, in our opinion, constructive in the situation. This resolution would in any case not have been adopted because of veto, and it goes without saying that this was not a constructive element in today's situation in the Middle East. It is quite right, as the representative of Enoxsen says, that Norway has played and wants to continue to play – if the parties so wish – a role in bringing the parties back to the negotiating table if possible. There is also, of course, behind any assessment by the government. We have to trust both parties, not just one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e482	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e486	We return home again, and I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister: After all, the government has received strong criticism of the strong cuts in food and district policy. At the latest today, the Prime Minister has actively defended the reversal of the Christian People's Party. But there has been a flood of protest letters, not least from the Prime Minister's own home country. And it makes the impression when the rapporteur in the only municipality where the Christian People's Party has a pure majority, rages and says that 'this policy I will not give a hint of back coverage'. And even more eye-catching when a State Secretary in Bondevik's own government, Arnfinn Ellingen, says: ‘The budget for the next year is too poor for a rural profile, and this has to be done. Prime Minister Bondevik cannot be responsible for this...’ Does Bondevik agree with his State Secretary, and does it make sense when a state secretary in his government feels the need to take such a distance from government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e500	Of course, the Prime Minister does not distance himself from his own government policy. That's what I'm defending.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e505	His State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e510	Yes, I am aware that he referred to the Secretary of State, but Schjøtt-Pedersen asked the Prime Minister, and I am of course behind the government's policy. I would like to maintain that the production of the budget's impact on the districts has been very unbalanced. One has not taken it into account that there is a real strengthening of the local economy, in fact also in addition to the forecasts contained in the Schjøtt-Pedersen budget itself, because of a lower price forecast that alone means 250 million. kr in the session action room. Now we've got a reduction in interest rates that alone means 400 million. kr in increased action rooms for the municipalities, we have strengthened the road budget in addition to the budget provided by Schjött-Pedersen, we are going to remove the air passenger charge, with which Schjøtt-Pedersen has not done anything, and we have improved the operating tax. All these are measures that will gradually benefit the districts. Then it is clear that in isolation there are also some items that we would like to have higher in terms of appropriations. However, as a budget that would contribute to lower interest rates, this is a responsible budget, which I am convinced will gradually benefit the municipalities and districts, although many of them still have a sluggish economy, among other things. the municipality to which Schjøtt-Pedersen referred in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e519	A budget that would bring interest down was already on the table when the Prime Minister joined, so there was no need to do anything special about it. But Bondevik's government is cutting the regional policy instruments by 350 million. kr. Economic policy is weakened by DKK 1.7 billion, and this clearly contrasts with the fact that the Christian People's Party, before the elections, said that regional policy instruments had to be strengthened – and not least it is in contrast to the policy of the Christian People's Party last time he was prime minister. The Bondevik I government proposed to strengthen municipal food funds, the Bondevik II government proposes to cancel them completely. Bondevik I proposed to introduce a major effort on regional coordination, Bondevik II proposes to delete it altogether. Bondevik I proposed increasing support for water quality in the companies, Bondevik II proposes to delete it altogether. Corresponding to the service braking for petrol, and in the case of the air passenger charge, overall for North Norway, except for Tromsø and Bodø, there is an increased charging burden. Does the Christian People's Party have a completely different district policy than before the elections? Or is it that the Christian People's Party has had to sacrifice district policy in order to go to government with the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e528	No, we haven't sacrificed district policy. We insist that many of the factors I mentioned, which Schjøtt-Pedersen elegantly overlooks, are for the benefit of the districts. When assessing the regional impact of the budget, a person should, in the name of truth, include factors that have a positive effect on the districts and not only those that in isolation may have a negative effect on anyone. So we haven't sacrificed district policy. But it is clear that this is a government of three parties working together to find a common budget. We've done that, and of course I'm behind it. And I maintain that there are several instruments in this budget that will work positively for the districts: corporate taxation, air passenger charges – the districts are of course slightly more than North Norway – road allocation and the general economic policy that is now beginning to deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e535	The President has subscribed three representatives for follow-up questions, the representatives Olav Akselsen, Karin Andersen and Magnhild Meltingsveit Kleppa. There are more than three who have tried, but there will be no more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e540	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now confirming that in this area there is another party that has been implemented. However, I am surprised that he is trying to minimize the impact of the cuts that have now been carried out. The reactions have been very strong, especially in District Norway, and not least internally in the Christian People's Party. In our discussions, the Stortinget discussed district and regional policy and SND's future, and there was a Christian People's Party in a plurality that tried to set up a common front against the Right and the Progress Party its policy in this area. Now it is Right’s business policy that is being implemented. There are very many who warn against this policy. One of those who warned was the then Prime Minister candidate Bondevik, who in the VG on September 3rd this year, a week before the election, strongly warned and refuted the proposals from the Right, especially when it was a raging discovery. Today, Bondevik himself manages the policy he so strongly warns against. It must be allowed to ask: Is it the Prime Minister or the then Prime Minister's candidate who is right on this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e549	The truth is that on several of the points that I warn the Right, it is not the Right Policy that has been followed up. I warned against cutting the aid. The aid has not been cut. It's high next year. We also disagreed on cutting sick pay. The sickness pay scheme is not affected. Many predicted that there would be a weak effort in the field of kindergarten development. High-recorded effort has been maintained. So at point-by-point, the Axis should, in the name of truth, acknowledge that the Christian People's Party and the Center Parties have had a significant impact in a cooperative government. With regard to the reactions in the districts, there's something the Axis shouldn't be completely unknown about. It was under the government he himself put in, that the district uprising was organized and seriously came, largely as a result of the policy he himself was responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e556	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e559	First, I would like to say that the Prime Minister's statement that the local economy is significantly improved is not correct, because the increases associated with increased pension expenditure, which are barely covered. So here's nothing to shout for. Government policies are now such that there should be less district policy in all common sectoral policies. There must be more competition, more privatisation. Everyone knows that it's an advantage for central struts, where it's a functioning market, because that's the only reason there can be any solution. In addition, the specific district policy should also be less important and less important. In a way, there will be very little district policy again, both in size and in size. The government also says it should be useful. Yes, SND has documented for several years that due to lack of funds, there are many companies that are not getting started. Does the Prime Minister think that SND is going to go wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e569	No, of course I don't mean that, but SND, like everyone else, takes care of its interests. When one hears the opposition, one can sometimes get the impression that SND is being closed from New Year's. In fact, billions are still going through the SND system. There have been down adjustments in some items, but I'm convinced that SND is going to play an important role in the years ahead, and it has this government as ambition. As far as more competition is concerned, there is also a call from the previous government in certain areas. I don't think it needs to mean loss for the district councils. On the contrary, if it is done in a sensible way under the responsibility of the municipality, a competitive outsourcing can also reduce costs for the municipalities in the districts. And the truth is, we don't go into 1.5 billion dollars in increased tax revenue for the municipalities this year when next year's price and interest rate reduction totals 650 million. kr in more action rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e576	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e579	There is an eye-catching difference between Bondevik I and Bondevik II when it comes to district policy. There is both the eradication of municipal food funds, commercial gardens and the dramatic reduction in the SND example. The Prime Minister has today confirmed that he found it quite OK with more expensive air fares on the short-haul network and more expensive food and more expensive petrol in the districts. The Minister of Local Affairs has made some changes in the case of the House Bank, which weakens the potential for housing in the districts. She has warned about a transformation of the municipal economy. She wants to take out the districts and give more to the big cities. The big cities need more money, but it's worrying if it's going to affect smaller municipalities. She also has notice that she is open to experimental schemes that the big cities take responsibility for running further schools. There is a solid wedge into the holistic responsibility that the county has now had for further schools, both in districts and in the city. Is the Prime Minister behind such an announcement?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e590	The big cities may need more resources, but we haven't thought it would happen at the expense of the district municipalities, which also need more resources. If we get to a growth in the economy, it's actually possible to get to both. As far as school is concerned, we are generally open to local trials. As you know, the secondary schools are not for the county, but the county municipality can be useful for the administration of secondary schools. Trials should not be anxious. But we have no plans to shut down the county. Then the representative Meltveit Kleppa says that there will be more expensive food and more expensive petrol in the districts. The truth is that there's going to be cheaper food and cheaper gasoline for people in the districts because of halves of food moms, for which we've fought together. And because of a reduced fuel tax, next year, people will experience cheaper food and cheaper petrol in the districts as well. It should have enjoyed the representative Meltveit Kleppa just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e599	The President proposes that further exchanges be made in writing with Christmas cards. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e604	My question goes to State Council Victor D. Norman. The Council of State has stated that competition policy should be strengthened and that he should draw up an action plan for this, including: to review the public monopoly situation we have on the welfare side. Now, state councilman Norman has stressed that everything has to be done in close cooperation with employees and employees' organisations. And this is probably a proper approximation strategy. But we know that we can expect a hard ideological resistance from e.g. Norwegian Municipal Councils which seem to have zero modernisation measures in the direction of competitive outsourcing or privatisation in public welfare production. Can the Council of State show a great deal of will – I hope so – and the necessary strength in such a situation and not be too yielding to the forces that will fight against the modernisation policies of the public sector that now seem to be largely majority in favour of here on the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e615	I think it's very important to be aware that modernisation in the public sector is completely impossible if not many of the 700,000 who work there, not only are willing to be involved, but actually take an active ownership of it. They're going to do a better job, they're going to want to do a better job, and that's why we need them on the team. This is our clear starting point for all the modernisation work. If we're to have the individual employees on the team, there's a lot of things to do. We need to decentralize responsibility and authority, we need to provide reward schemes that allow individual employees, if they actually do a better job, to see some of the results themselves, and then we need to have close contact with employees' organisations. What I, and the Government, have said is that we invite all relevant organisations to close and close cooperation. I am convinced – it is possible that I am naive – that there is a basic willingness to change among employees and within their organisations. As long as we make an invitation that is open in the sense that we are not dogmatic about the tools to be used in the modernisation, and are open to good ideas from the organizations, I think we'll get them along. But I want to make it clear that it's an invitation to active cooperation on modernisation, it's not giving organisations a veto on development. And if it's supposed to be the way organizations aren't as positive and changeable as I think they are, and as they have expressed themselves, then we have to see what we do in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e626	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer was that this is something the Council of State will do in the best way, and I believe that it promises well. However, it is clear that competition in the public service sector will, as some of us know, be able to trigger a large economic savings potential, and it could help to eliminate defects and shortcomings in the hospital system, in the care of the elderly and in the school system, which are currently suffering from this type of public welfare production. The Progress Party promises to follow closely what is going on in this area. We believe that competition is important in the public sector. The public sector monopoly in welfare production has long been a disadvantage in terms of reducing costs and improving quality. Norman is one of those who goes here to a formidable task, and I've got a confirmation that he's going to do what's in his power to do this the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e637	At least I believe I can confirm that I have great faith in competition both in the private sector and in the public sector. But I also think we should bear in mind that competition does not just have to be a formal competitive outing. It is probably so important that we have a dispute between different public service providers, and also more likely to have a conflict between the individual employees who work in the public sector. Competition is good, competition is fun, and it's encouraging. I also believe that the employees and their organisations agree at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e642	There will be follow-up questions – May Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e645	Governments are still talking about competitive outsourcing, reconversion, education, efficiency. The main challenge will be to recruit staff for the public sector. What will the Council of State do with the manning crisis we now see, when he is occupied with the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e653	The most important thing is that we ensure that there is actually enough labour to meet both the tasks of the private sector and the excruciating need of the public sector. There's a very important inclusion agreement. It is also important to improve efficiency, so that in those areas of the public sector where we might think that we have a little too many, we can free up labour that can be deployed in areas where the manning crisis is quite obvious. This means that labour market policy and efficiency policy are both important elements of a policy to ensure that, in the future, we actually get enough people to provide care services, health services, education services – all the things we need more – and that we can do it in a way that means that we do not at the same time frustrate private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e660	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we are moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e674	The Financial Committee treats the ejaculation without particular resistance. This year, relatively few and relatively small changes have been proposed by the Government. That's why a strange reaction we've seen from the government parties in the last few days related to a transferable allocation of 54 million. kr which took place through the budgetary procedure of the Church, Education and Research Committee. The strange thing about that reaction is that the government itself is proposing to use the same mechanism on several chapters with varying reasons. We had an interesting debate on this yesterday, where the government parties went high in defending the importance of not making these kind of changes right before Christmas. But then it's tempting to remind you of a debate we had in this room exactly one year ago, related to a proposal made by the Progress Party to grant SEK 1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. On this occasion, I would like to quote the fiscal spokesman for the Right – the current Minister for Finance – who said in that debate: ‘– when we grant DKK 1 billion to treat patients, it is actually intended for the benefit of patients, and then you are told what else you want about the proposal.’ Further in the same post, the then representative Per-Kristian Foss says the following: ‘I also think that the committee leader’s discussion of procedural rules is a bit side by side in this context. But I'm recording, and I'm taking note, that in a discussion about whether we're going to spend $1 billion to operate people abroad when there's no capacity in Norway, the Workers' Party's answer to that is: No, we can't discuss it now. This is contrary to Storting's allocation rules. That's way of being sour. There's a way to be angry because if you lose a debate. That's exactly what it's about this year as well. And I want to repeat the glistening quote from our current Minister of Finance: ‘There is a way to be angry’ because political realities are being lost in the Stortinget. I think it is necessary for a minority government to act with a significantly greater degree of humility in relation to the majority of the population's desire to make changes in the budget. The status just before Christmas is that the oil-corrected deficit is reduced by NOK 11.4 billion, and it is mainly because the tax revenue has become NOK 15.1 billion higher than assumed in the budget. That means we're increasing our profits, and now we're going to end up with a profit for the nation of 260 billion dollars for 2001. It seems that the Progress Party testifies that the fine-tuning and detailed management to which the ordinary budget is being dealt with is impossible and unnecessary – especially because there is considerable variation with stoic calm by means of a new aging process. It's pretty crazy that when you get trends towards government crisis and chaos-like conditions in the Storting because you can't agree on very few hundreds of millions of dollars in changes over a budget, you sit close and yawn over the fact that the state fund gets more in tax revenue than 15 billion dollars because the economy is going well. The only way to take this into account is to balance the budget so that what was adopted a year ago, namely to spend 12 billion kroner of our oil wealth in the Norwegian economy for 2001, has now become almost zero. We had a little round and corrected it in the revised budget where the 12 billion were reduced to NOK 3.7 billion, and now it's going to be reduced to zero. At each budgetary procedure it is important for the government which is in place at all times to stress the importance of the government's own budget being the only source of success, the only one responsible and the one that will make the economy go well over the years to come. But then I'm assuming that that means you're going to deal with the budgeting you're raising at the start of a new year. It must really mean that if the deviations become as large as they become, for example, for the current year, then you do something about it. The point for any finance minister is just to stress that this very device that we have now implemented is responsible. It must mean that when we adopted the budget a year ago, it was responsible, and good and correct, for the Norwegian economy to use 12 billion oil crowns for good purposes in Norway. Why is it suddenly no longer responsible — and especially when we have received significant increases in income? That could lead to some nice grip on the tamp of the year, which would benefit the Norwegian taxpayers, and which would show that we actually mean all the government we run when we adopt the budget one year before. But you don't have to do that. To this end, the Progress Party stands alone in the Committee's position on a proposal to use a little of this increased space of action and allowed Norwegian taxpayers to benefit from an exceptional tax-free payment to both taxpayers and insured persons, which is approximately equivalent. 3.2 million people. It would have been a nice and loving Christmas gift for most people in a situation where the economy has gone far better than expected. But you don't have to do that. No one can claim in such a context that it will be impossible to implement by the end of the year. Of course, it will be possible – if you want. Another suggestion the Progress Party has in the setting is to use 250 million. to strengthen our voluntary and humanitarian organisations. They're doing a fantastic job, not least now in Christmastime when we have a lot of people who are lonely, sick, tired of rushing and other things, and who are looking for the Salvation Army and other organizations to get help, food and warmth in a difficult Christmas time. It would have been a loving contribution to our non-governmental organisations that are making an effort. But neither will any of the parties support the proposal, which I find very strange. I would like to address all the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party in the position, either alone or together with others, and at the same time will end this article by asking that the Stortinget spend the same amount of time not only on budgeting, but also on a debate that we are going to have later, a little out next year, namely on the accounts. It is a matter that is overlooked in silence in this house, despite the fact that we then settle the status and see if we met when we made the budget one and a quarter years before. I would like it to be given the same attention, because it simply underlines that the detailed management we are trying to provide in relation to the budgetary procedure is very rare.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e711	The representative Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e714	Let me join the committee leader's initial remarks that there must be limits to being angry, without giving it any specific address. But it is important that we both have good debates and glimpses in these. Otherwise, I have also read the debate from last year on the so-called foreign billion, without having to draw up the whole discussion we had yesterday. There were many words of wisdom in Mr. Foss" post at the time, just like it is now. What was the main point of yesterday's debate was that we wanted a derogation from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation. This was done in the debate last year. We also take note this year that the majority wants to allocate 56 million. kr more, even if it is contrary to the Storting’s own rules of allocation. But we expressed yesterday's wish, and I would like to repeat it today, that there should be concrete exceptions to Section 4 of the Financial Regulation, as was also done in the debate last year on the so-called foreign billion. Otherwise, both the oil fund, the rules of action and the rules of allocation are primarily instruments. It's the results that count and that's crucial. For this reason, I believe that it can be argued very well that it is not right to spend more money in the last two weeks in December. Now we see that interest rates go down, and it goes down because you've been in control of the economy. With regard to the five proposals from the Government to make items transferable, none of the proposals contravene the rules on appropriations. All the proposals are well justified and in line with incorporated practice. I also refer to the debate we had yesterday, and to the comments in the vote, and address the proposals behind the cooperation parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e727	The representative Sanner has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e730	The recent ageing that Stortinget is treating today is primarily an expression of one thing, and that is that the Norwegian economy is going very well. So you've got $65 billion more in income than you would expect. Of course that's good news. At the same time, there are a couple of things to think about. First, think about whether this is something that can persist over time. There are, in particular, two issues in the Norwegian economy on which emphasis should be placed. One is that the capacity is almost fully exploited. This means that it must be a primary task to free up free hands, get those who are not at work, work, so that you have the opportunity to further develop the welfare state. The welfare state needs free hands, and when the economy goes high, as it has done in the year that we're about to have behind us, it means that it's a huge challenge not only for the Storting but also for the Government, for the Norwegian industry and for the public sector to make sure that you can get more hands at work. The second is that this shows how extremely vulnerable the Norwegian economy is. Much of the additional revenue is due to activity related to oil and gas production. This means that the Norwegian economy, through this ageing process, clearly shows the degree of uncertainty that lies not only in the estimates of the oil price but also in the dollar rate. If there had been a fall in the oil price or the dollar would have been much lower, this might well have been the opposite. It shows how extremely vulnerable the Norwegian economy is, and how extremely dependent we are on having high oil revenues. For many years, the SV has been calling for a shift from investment in the North Sea to investment in mainland production and investment in the knowledge economy, with all possible clarity, in the ageing budget that is now ahead of us. I'm not going to deal with this whole debate, but just point to one thing: I agree with what may initially seem like a rather sober estimate from the Government, which means that you now get a significantly higher input of money than you could really have expected, because you could have had the opposite situation if the oil price and the dollar rate had been lower. This means that having a sense of urgency in relation to which estimates are initially to be presented to the Storting is wise. It's better to get a significant plus than to get a significant minus. However, I would just like to highlight an important point, namely that this budget clearly shows – and the government must be more serious now – that the whole economy is in fact based on two prices, namely the price of oil and the price of dollars. In previous newsdebate debates here in Stortinget, there has been a significant rematch on political issues. It was particularly obvious during the center government, which took up a whiskers' butt here and a whiskers' butt there. Fortunately, it's not like that in this newly aged budget. This is essentially plus and minus. That's what SV appreciates. However, together with the Labour Party and the Advance Party, we have found room to rectify some of the things that have been necessary in connection with the education budget. It's natural to imagine that it's being introduced into the ejaculation. It's a pleasure. In addition to this, we have no comments. We agree with the other parties mentioned here on the proposals to which it refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e747	It is good that this year's ageing has become what it should be: a correction of the adopted budget based on the changes that have occurred. However, when the changes in some areas are so big, some comments are natural. It is good that oil prices and oil taxes continue to increase. It's good that we've arranged for the added value of this sector to benefit the community, and that we can distribute it to those who need it the most. The center party thinks it's a pity that we're about to sell this opportunity. If the partial privatization of Statoil and the sale of shares from HOUSE was a cheap sale, we don't know yet, but the Center Party thinks we could do better without those billions. I agree with the message from the Grand President during the Christmas break the other day: We can help them at the bottom of the table – if we want to. Who really wants to, we'll discuss it further – over and over again. It's going to be the big challenge at the turn of the year, and the big cross of thought. For the facts of the autumn, the Labour Party Government proposed a personal tax bill of 80 p.m. to those with top taxes, but became more concerned with those with low wages and those with no income later. Bondevik II also ended on 80 p.m. tax relief for those with a peak tax but calculated by a much higher amount. A total of NOK 5 billion in personal taxes is enormous. Then the will to distribute can really become visible. But the will to increase the differences was greater. A few millionaires received most of the gain by returning the dividend tax to zero. Bondevik II covered its additional tax base by cutting transfers, among others. to industrial development in districts. In agriculture, they serve half of the lower limit of top taxes. Hardly anyone lies lower for full effort in a business that is so high priority. Food producers had to contribute NOK 10 000 of each year's salary to tax reliefs for the richest. In fact, the proposals of the Progress Party for spontaneous allocation today have a much better social profile than both the Stoltenberg budget and the Bondevik II budget. That's why it wasn't so strange that quite a lot of people were wandering in the eye during lunch, where the will for fair distribution – at home – was launched. The centre lot's tax credits in the budget of the harvest have reduced differences as objectives. Almost all of our tax credits go to revenues less than NOK 200 000. We got 8 billion kroner compared to the draft budget that came from Stoltenberg. We prioritised the areas where it turned out that Bondevik II cut most: distribution, value creation, prevention, districts. We got the extra money for school, kindergarten, health and care that everyone promised in the election campaign. The major changes in the budget that have occurred this year — and which usually happen — put the only right balance point that dominates the financial debate in a strange light. Of course, there is no such exact size of oil-corrected surpluses or deficits that provide optimal development for the economy of society and its inhabitants. The most harmful thing for us is whether the Storting takes away all the opportunities to solve the pressing problems that there is a majority to solve here in the hall. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the use of free machines and hands to remove bottlenecks on the roads is an example of an area where the budget prison prevents us from doing what is widely agreed. Therefore, the centre party found a balance point different from that of the majority in the harvest. But the Central Party does not agree with the Progress Party in wanting to deprive the Minister of Finance and his office of all credibility. We must have rules that impose common disciplinary requirements on us in budgetary work. And today, of course, we must be able to enjoy the fact that the oil fund is now growing more than expected, because the mainland economy is flourishing. It is a good thing that we are moving in between just that: the conditions for doing business in this country are largely very good. There's been a lot of discussion about more than 50 million. additional appropriations for, inter alia: student housing. The action of the majority, in which the Central Party is involved, is closely related to the coercive majority of the population in the budgetary procedure and to the strong will that exists to give up such coercion. I will defend the majority's right to adopt what has now been done. I would like to remind you that there are many examples of creative budgeting and accounting from previous years. A year ago, the Christian People's Party was involved in adding 100 million dollars to the Defense. DKK for the year 2000 as compensation for 100 million. kr which was cut at the 2001 budget, in order to reach the balance point as defined at the time. It is exactly the same good intention and the same course of action that underlies today. When someone now raises the rule of action and the point of balance almost to religion and calls on higher powers to get the majority of illegal budgeting convicted, the argumentation is not credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e777	In the past, we have taken political action in the budgetary procedure this autumn. Today, as the title of the setting says, there is a balancing, and that is a summary. The questions about the regulations on appropriations we had up to yesterday's discussion, and I will not go into that debate any more. Here I think we should go quietly in the doors some each. However, I would just like to stress that, on behalf of the Labour Party, we are committed to the allocation procedures and the rules we have for the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. We also stand by the rule of action we have for monetary policy, and we stand by the disposal of the oil fund. These are very important elements and very important headlines that we have now dealt with – fortunately with a large majority in the Stortinget – and I think in a good way. Now we see that there's a kind of a rash. It is clear that when we received the signal from Norway's Bank about the fall in interest rates, it was also based on the government's budget and the budget that was then presented, and what has been done in the Stortinget. It's important to say that we have to take care not to run running in different directions here. Then I believe the confidence in the treatment of the budget here in the Stortinget and our future economy will be greatly weakened. With regard to the political situation in the Grand Duchy, there has been a lot of discussion about the budget. What I think we can draw as a conclusion now, just before we take Christmas holidays, is that there has been a majority of the government's budget framework, but it has not been a majority of the government's policy. A minority government and the government parties in the Storting must also take note of this. I think I'll finish with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e788	Finally, I have to say that, to a large extent, it is also the framework that creates policy, not least for most people, who have now been able to enjoy a first drop in interest rates – which is the result of the framework that has been maintained. It would not have been in the current situation in the same way conducive to a fall in interest rates if an additional billion had been used. I will not now go into the debate on Stortingen's allocation regulations. I note, not least with reference to the last speaker, the representative of the Workers' Party, that the largest opposition party insists that the rule of action must be respected – even in relation to amounts granted in the ageing, or in the re-balancing of a budget, and transferred to the next year – and that the regulation of appropriations still has broad support in the Storting. It is so reassuring that in any case the largest opposition batch confirms this. To keep me on the left – if I had said so – I would also like to say that I agree with the heart of the representative, Mr. Djupedal, in his observation that the Norwegian economy is facing a major capacity problem today. We still have a shortage of labour in a good number of areas. It is important to have more hands in use among those who are unemployed today, and it is also important that we open ourselves up to more people who want to seek work in Norway and contribute to the development of our welfare state. We have some unresolved issues in this area that the Government will pay particular attention to. This applies, inter alia, to: people with disabilities, where better arrangements are now being made for employers and businesses to offer jobs for them as well. Special arrangements are also in place to develop attitudes, so that people who come to Norway with a foreign name and a foreign background and who are willing to work get a job. Unfortunately, we see countless examples of people with a cultural background outside Europe having problems getting jobs. There is in many ways no worthwhile move in the Norwegian welfare state, and getting more hands at work is a challenge for all of us. I also agree with what was said by the committee leader that the volunteer organisations are doing a great job. We observe them especially around Christmas times. The Salvation Army has been mentioned – I'd like to join it. Several could also have been mentioned. But I want to add that these organizations are making a fantastic effort all year round. That's why the government, especially in the budget for next year, has given the voluntary organisations a lot of attention and has increased their appropriations. I think it's important to do it as part of a budget, and not as a result of some sort of Christmas effort. Finally, this is the recent ageing of a budget for which this government has not been substantially responsible. So let me just give you the following general reflection. It has often been suggested in this debate and in other debates that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are deliberately subservient to some incomes in order to create tightness in the economy, and that it always brings in much more tax revenue than is expected. I have therefore asked my ministry to provide an overview of the relationship between tax revenue, as predicted in the budget that the Stortinget deals with each harvest – for a few years it was a balancing of the budget, but in recent years it has only been the framework decisions themselves – and the actual revenue that appears when the accounts are drawn up. What's happening here as a very clear picture is that what's hard to predict is oil revenue, i.e. tax revenue from the oil sector. But even there, the numbers go in different directions. We've had years of formidable extra income from the sector, and we've had some years, if not many, with quite dramatic falls. I hope we don't get new years like this with dramatic falls, but predicting the development of the international oil market, I think, is very difficult. I've had the pleasure of meeting a couple – three of the international oil companies lately, and I've asked them about what kind of forecasts they have – it could be nice to compare it to the forecasts we've presented to the Stortinget – and let me say that, the uncertainty is the same there, and the certainty of the results seems to be well placed in relation to what we've presented to the Stortinget in the past. But there are different types of uncertainties here. There is uncertainty about production, oil prices and price developments, primarily about dollars. In the case of tax receipts for the rest, the certainty of the results seems to be quite high. What's typical, if you see this whole decade as a whole, is that this year, with a high economic cycle, you tend to get even more income than you expect, while the opposite is the case in periods of low economic activity. I can see that everything is the same in relation to a normal budget debate. Those who believe that more money should be spent at any time, believe it still, even in December, in the new era – which is what you would think about next year's budget, and probably also about the budget then, and then something is going on. I will not end by inviting a debate on the accounts next year – I look forward to it too – but I think it might be more appropriate to end by wishing good Christmas to all present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e813	I understand that the Minister of Finance thought he would get away easily this time! I noticed a statement in the contribution to the finance minister, and I understand to the extent that the government's need to take credit for us now having a decline in interest rates. What the Council of State said, could at least be interpreted as the result of the fall in interest rates alone due to the framework decisions we have taken for the budget for next year. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm or cancel it, and in that case ask how it harmonizes with the regulation we now have for monetary policy and opinions given by the Governor over a longer period of time in relation to the perspective that the Central Bank has attached to inflation expectations, and thereby interest rate changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e820	In my statements following the Norwegian Bank's interest rate decision, I underlined that the majority behind the framework decision on the budget must have a share of the credit for what has now happened. In other words, I didn't use the word 'government' there, if you notice it. I see that some newspapers actually made it a point. At least they sensed it. I did not say in my post that the interest reduction alone is due to the framework decision in Stortinget. There are several relationships that lie at stake. But let me say so that if the government hadn't adhered to the rule of action, if the Storting had granted significantly beyond the government's limits, this would not have been a contribution to interest reduction. In other words, it would not have been a contribution to keeping the tightness of the economy, which, in turn, is a prerequisite for real underlying inflation to stay below the target of 2.5 pst. in the two-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e827	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1232]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e845	What this matter relates to is the right to deduct the individual taxpayer when it is owed to voluntary, non-commercial organisations. The proposers behind this Document No. The 8th proposal, Åslaug Haga and Morten Lund, has been in favour of providing tax exemptions for gifts given through local funds to local organisations, thus supporting an extension in relation to the current scheme both in terms of the size of the amount and perhaps an extension in relation to the local organisations that may be covered by the scheme. The Minister for Finance has a question on the subject. pointed out that such a new way of organizing it would be administratively expensive for all parties. The Minister of Finance has the majority in the Committee, all the non-participants of the Centre, joined. But the majority in the committee, all the non-accepted members of the Labour Party and SV, have the opinion that today's system, with a right to a deduction of up to NOK 900 per year. tax payers, should be expanded, but then within the way they are administered per. today. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, conclude that the document is annexed to the Protocol without any substantive consideration. Right, Christian People's Party and Left point out that the Government is dealing with such an extension, and that a decision will therefore be unnecessary, while the Labour Party and SV, as far as I understand, do not want such an extension. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coast Party, have put forward a proposal asking the Government to propose a significant increase in deductions by donations to voluntary organisations. The comments show that a majority in this room is in principle in agreement with the content of the proposal, but that the government party still wants to vote against, considering this as an unnecessary proposal because the government has already said that it wants to extend this arrangement. However, the minority makes this proposal to give a positive signal to the Government that this work must be given a high priority, because we consider such voluntary efforts and work as so important and such a good investment for the future that it is urgent to get these voluntary organisations to have a better economy in order to be able to operate their important social activity. On this basis, I will present the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e868	Gjermund Hagesetter has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e871	The good people deserve much more than praise. All the honors are in place, but to a much greater extent it has to follow with money. It is enough that local good words and local money do more good and lead to more activity than the money that comes from a central team. With the proposal that is now under consideration, the Central Party wants to bring the Storting on board: how are we going to be able to spend a lot of money on local teams and associations that do good for us all, without that money coming from the state budget? We have 85 000 teams and associations with 5-6 million memberships, according to the HSH report on the voluntary sector from 1999. Voluntary work amounts to 6 pst. of all annual works, but only 6 pst. of the revenues of these organisations are gifts from private individuals. Those gifts are probably quite different. The centre party wants authorities to provide more direct support and other incentives so that voluntary efforts do not stop. There's probably a real danger that some of it can do that. The good people are more tired of selling lotions and begging for money than of working with young people, for example. Organisations are becoming more expensive and expensive. The Centre Party wishes, inter alia, to: changing the key so that all profits go to sport and culture, and that revenue goes to local work. In total, we want sports and culture to get an extra $1 billion over the course of four years. We've been through this with the police guard before. We want it to be free where the purpose of an event is culture, children and young people, and that principle is to be legislated. We're also going to follow up on it. The state must grant tax exemptions to those who want to give money instead of working themselves in the local environment. That is what the proposal we are now discussing is about. Tax exemptions are a great incentive. We know that from other areas. Gift money has to find the way to the purpose that you want to support, in a simple and safe way. I believe that the possibility of tax evasion is best avoided by the fact that the money goes through a local bank account – that the responsibility for managing and disseminating the money is to be added to a local government, and that they are careful that only those associations that have an approved purpose in accordance with the regulations of the department receive the money. Such a local government sees what the money is spent on. Reporting to tax authorities will be very simple and, of course, can also be done mechanically, so that the deduction comes on the pre-filled declaration. The giver’s pleasure and willingness to do so are very much linked to the local, the close and the concrete. In the case of tax incentives with liberal limits, a project that is useful to many will be able to make a large contribution. The current tax-free scheme makes a modest contribution of 10 million. kr in total according to the letter we received from the department. The reason why so little money comes in that way is obvious that the gifts go to nationwide organisations and go little for local purposes. A look up in the nation today tells about it. It says, among other things. that the crew and the choir do not have five ears through that arrangement. The Norwegian Youth Act does not know that the scheme exists. I think it'll also be like this later, if the scheme expands and the amount limit gets bigger. It is positive that a majority in the committee will extend the system we have today, after all. The working party and SV do not say anything about it. The cooperation parties warn that the amount of the deduction may be increased, while the Progress Party, the Coastal Party and the Center Party say we want to increase this. But whatever the Workers' Party and SV want, we're not told anything about, except that they join the Ministry of Finance's scepticism. I think that's a little disappointing. Then, of course, it is disappointing that only the Senter party wants to propose the tax exemption scheme for local donations. Most of the skepticism of this proposal seems to be in the interests of nationwide organisations, that they have expressed a wish that gifts should go that way. I find it strange that the possibilities of increasing the flow of money to the local layers are not given much more emphasis. At the previous crossroads, in the processing of volunteering, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party at least agreed that we would prioritize the local teams. We did not want what the majority said to be about the nation-wide organisations. The Ministry’s listing of counter-arguments against extended tax exemptions is not unexpected. Some of the counter performances I think are groundless and exaggerated. It is such that the proposal that has been submitted for reasons outlines how a scheme of local funds can be organised. With regard to organisation, in terms of governance and geographical area, the ‘should’ form and ‘can’ form are used in the proposal, while the Ministry’s response clearly sees it as a detailed legislation that has been put forward. It's not like that at all. We've asked the Department to present a code based on the constraints that are needed. Of course, there is nothing in the proposal that suggests that we want legislation that does not prevent tax subsidies from adult hobbies and leisure activities. I then hope that the announced improvement of the current tax exemption scheme will include both a broader scope of impact, strongly expanded limits of amounts and better opportunities to give gifts to their own neighbourhood. However, the Central Party promises not to forget the hard work force and the possibility of such tax incentives being given to local teams and associations through local funds. That proposal is likely to show up again. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal put forward by the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e901	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e919	At the request of the Norwegian authorities, it was negotiated with Chile in May 1999 to conclude an agreement to prevent double taxation. On 26 October 2001, an agreement between Norway and Chile was signed in Santiago to prevent double taxation and to prevent the avoidance of taxes on income and wealth. This Agreement will enter into force as soon as both States have taken the necessary decisions. It is a unanimous committee that is in place to bring this agreement into force. On this basis, I recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e926	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox In the past, the majority has decided that the cases No. 5–7 will be postponed and will be dealt with at a later meeting. [[Footing, see page 1238]] We are therefore in favour of case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e944	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e955	Today, we are going to handle and make decisions about permanent operations in the Svea North Mine. The plurality is increasing the proposition, while the minority, which is composed of SV, does not. The centre party has a special comment and has put forward proposals. It also has SV. I'm assuming that the minority here will do their own thing. The Proposition proposes that the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkompani A/S should continue to operate on Svalbard in the long term, then located in the Svea Nord field. It is a requirement that one should operate on the basis of corporate economic governance and without state support in the future. If you want to do that, it is an assumption that the volume of the output is increased, from about 300,000 tonnes today to an average of 1.2 million. tonnes per tonne; years, but without a roof, so that one can gain flexibility and thus increase the volume somewhat when desired and necessary. The capacity is 2.5 million. tonnes per tonne; years – without any need to expand the berth and outsourcing capacity. For the majority, the Svalbard Treaty and the obligation it imposes on Norway to take care of sovereignty are important. It could also be useful to recall the treatment of Svalbard cases in the Storting before, and to underline what the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Stortinget said in the handling of St. reported. No 9 for 1999-2000, it is important that Norway takes responsibility for exercising sovereignty on the island group in a way that ensures peace, stability, the protection of the wilderness environment and responsible resource management. This is for the majority the most important argument that we want to give Great Norwegian the opportunity to get started on permanent operations in Svea. In order for us to be able to do that, it is also important that the Longyearbyen as a community is about as large as it is today, and has the structure it has today. Great Norwegian is especially important to keep it close. Because of their presence, they are helping to create a ringing effect when it comes to jobs in Longyearbyen that I don't think any other business that might be located in Svalbard could be involved in creating. If you look at how long people are in their jobs in Great Norwegian, it is 12–13 years on average, while in the other major industries of Svalbard, which are tourism and research and education, the average time is about one year. It goes without saying that security and stability are becoming so weak that the other service industries like ‘serve’ Great Norwegian may not be able to see themselves in Longyearbyen in the future unless Great Norwegian continues. It is claimed that there may be other nutrients that should be able to enter there. I want to put a big question mark on it. What kind of other industries can take over the role of Great Norwegian? And then we have to stick to what's the starting point, that the most important thing is that we have to exercise our sovereignty on Svalbard. I don't think it can be done with other industries, because if we were to do as SV says, simply direct the liquidation of Great Norwegian, not only jobs in Great Norwegian are disappearing, then there will also be many other jobs in Longyearbyen, so that the community in Longyearbyen will not be kept up, and that we may not be able to carry out the obligations we have, cf. Svalbard Treaty. It is also good to see that the operation, after one has invested large sums and a lot of money in Svea Nord, will be able to carry a surplus in the future. It's also a pre that we can take with us. There's never been any question about it before when it applies to what's going on with Svalbard and Longyearbyen, and the obligations that we have. The most important thing is that we are there, and that we have a community up there that works so well that people will be there and be at work there. There has also been much talk about this with coal and pollution and coal-fired power stations. It is clear that one can say a lot about it, but at least it is a reality that the coal on Svalbard and in Svea North Mining is of the purest that is on the market. In fact, transport to the market is environmentally friendly in relation to the transport of other carbon that is far away, and the market is Europe. And as the coal is so marginal on the world market that it doesn't matter to any extent, we thought it must be right that we try to keep our commitments on Svalbard. So the sailing in the Akselsundet has been very easy, and I'm going to include some words about it as well. I must remind the assembly that now has a ship of coal for a long, long time out through the so-called throne of the Akselundet. It's 700 m wide, and the actual sailing path is not more than 1,200 m long. There may be a boat going every other day in the period that it is launching. If one takes the Oslo soil at the narrowest point, I believe that the sailing lease is in need of more than 700 metres in Akselsundet, and there are several boats that go there. The paradox is that the only boat that is currently on the ground up there is Bellona's own boat, and it is less than the boats that are being sent in through the sound today. And with the sailing regulations that are now under way, at least the majority believe that this will be all right. It's not our faults. It has been a bit of a criticism that a common acquaintance from the naval team who has been carrying coal on Svalbard for all years. I think it makes sense to use acquaintances, and I'm convinced that the mariner team knows that the day there's an accident up there that might be due to an over-pressing and not following the regulations, it's probably the end. So here's actually going to be on the safe side for this to go well. There are possibilities for this to be successful, and then it is important that one also organizes. I believe that this is going well, and I am convinced that the Stortinget today makes a sensible decision when one follows the recommendation from the majority of the committee to start permanent operations in Svea Nord-Gruva, organized as an owned limited company under the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kullkompani AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e986	This is a case with many sides, and I have to admit that for the Workers' Party, it is not the most important aspect of nutrition policy, but it also has more exciting elements. I think it is positive that the state that owns the enterprises in which the State is part of. The Labour Party wants an active industrial policy, and that state enterprises also have access to risk capital, and inflow capital is an important part of this policy. Another example of this is the Storting's decision last year to deposit money into Statkraft. Therefore, I strongly reject those who claim that shooting money into a state-owned company is the same as subsidizing. It's not in any way. Here you can set the risk capital of an enterprise that is owned by itself, in line with the private owner at times, in order to further develop its enterprises. The Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani has undergone major changes in recent years and is now foreordained to meet the future in an efficient and forward-looking way. The decision that the Stortinget has today been invited to take is a follow-up to previous decisions relating to this matter. In my view, with the background of previous major debates and decisions, it would be strange if the final result today would be different than it is, all the time one here has run a race to which Stortinget has previously given its blessing. So the quality of the coal that exists in Svea North is really good. The coal you get from Svalbard is the purest Finn on the market and will therefore help reduce emissions compared to coal from other sources. Nevertheless, I would argue that using such arguments to say yes to the further operation of Svea Nord, in any way, will be a substitute argument. Saying yes to further coal operations today is not a problem. One sees that further coal operations also have negative sides. The truth is that for the Labour Party it is the meaning of the coal industry for the Svalbard community and the Norwegian presence at Svalbard that is the main argument for further operations. Svalbard is a very special part of Norway. It's a strategically important area. It is such that other nations and foreign companies have very special dishes on Svalbard that they do not have in mainland Norway, and it is important that Norway takes care of its obligations under the Svalbard Treaty, and the continuation of coal operations is an important tool to achieve it. Of course, I am glad that over the last few years it has become more widespread in the activity of Svalbard. It's positive that the community up there gets more bones to stand on. However, permanent coal operations are the mainstay of the Norwegian busset at Svalbard in the foreseeable future. In mainland Norway, a number of examples of mines that have been closed down, with depopulation, depopulation, as a result, despite the fact that one from the big community has often gone into large amounts for conversion. I'm afraid that would be the same if the coal power at Svalbard were to be lifted. So, as politicians, we have to keep the positive sides of coal drift up against the negatives. The carbon quantity to be produced in the Svea North Mine, is below one percent, maybe two per million, of the world market, and would immediately be replaced by coal from other sources if we today chose to put our foot down for further operations on Svalbard. So I have to admit that I find it hard to see the global effect of maintaining coal drift on Svalbard. In contrast, when it concerns the local effects, it is obvious that they will be there, but I think we should remind ourselves that the matter we are discussing today, in no way is the first occasion the Storting has had to discuss the future of the coal industry at Svalbard. In previous cases, one has considered strict requirements for how much coal is going to be used and how it will be developed. Ein has, among other things, said no to build a road from Longyearbyen to Svea, which would certainly facilitate the possibility of further coal operations. One has also said no to lead electricity through a cable from Longyearbyen to Svea, which in addition reduces the nutritional aspects by maintaining coal production. Thus, the size of the population has previously met stringent environmental requirements for the further development of carbon resources at Svalbard. It is also the case that one has set very strict requirements when it comes to cargo to and from Svea – it applies to the transport of goods in and not least to the transport of coal from the area. There are a lot of boat calls on Svalbard during the year, and the safety of the various calls is probably at a much lower level than what we talk about when it comes to cargo to and from the Svea mine. I would therefore argue that the majority today have the basis to say that one has taken care of the environment, and that the environment in many ways has steered the activity linked to Norwegian coal operations at Svalbard. We need to be clear that as long as these carbon resources exist on Svalbard, and with the Svalbard Treaty's special nature, it will be possible for other companies from other nations to claim the right to withdraw these resources. And I fear that it will be of a completely different environmental standard than the one we are now adding from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani. For my part, I can say that the comments from the Center Party show the position I have. We don't have this many options if we want to continue the build on Svalbard. It is also coal that will be decisive for us to be able to maintain the construction and hence Norway's obligations linked to the Svalbard Treaty. Completely in conclusion: in the case of proposals No. 2 and 4 and to the extent that proposal No. 3, from the Center Party, I feel that these proposals are of a more general nature, which does not apply to further coal operations in particular, but to a regime in relation to the Svalbard Society. So I don't think it's natural today to vote for these proposals, but it might be up to the government to look at these proposals, close to a broader review of the activity of Svalbard. Then, in the Labour Party, we get back to the concrete proposals on a more general basis when the Stortinget next has a general debate on the development of Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1012	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1015	Is Norwegian coal operations on Svalbard a positive or a negative contribution to the fight against global warming? There is something I could imagine that the representative Akssen gave a clear answer. Or is it only Danish coal power that concerns the Workers' Party when it comes to arguing for the construction of gas power plants in Norway? It may be appropriate to recall that, through coal-fired operations at Svalbard, we contribute to lower coal prices in Europe, thereby increasing the profitability of coal-fired power stations. Or is it that the majority, including the Workers' Party, still believes that everyone else should take responsibility for climate change – everyone other than ourselves? We do not need coal operations on Svalbard to maintain Norwegian sovereignty. It was emphatically confirmed by the Steinnes Committee in 1998. The use of public funds on Svalbard is not primarily a business issue but a foreign policy issue. Does it not make more sense then to use resources on something that is also climate policy sensible? There's actually a lot of other things we can do on Svalbard -- strengthening the research environment that's already there is an obvious possibility. SV does not want to wind up overnight either. Therefore, our proposal is that the coal industry should be phased out over a five-year period, so that it is possible to carry out a local community conversion process. My question is therefore: when the majority, including the Workers' Party, now refuses to make decisions where other solutions for achieving the objectives, which are Norwegian sovereignty, and at the same time do something that is good for the climate, how should we proceed when we start discussing the really big issues of Norwegian climate policy in the context of the climate communication? As the rapporteur for the climate change policy, I have to say that this case does not promise very well for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1026	We can only say that when it comes to the meaning of coal drift on Svalbard, SV has a completely different hold than all the other parts. When we go in today to continue our operations, we do it first and foremost because we believe it is decisive for the ability to maintain Norwegian sovereignty, take care of the obligations we have in relation to the Svalbard Treaty and secure Norwegian settlement on Svalbard. It is true that when we deal with this matter today, the last procedure is for a very long period of time. In fact, I would argue that all the political parties in this house have gone into the issue carefully and looked at alternative forms of operation and food routes on Svalbard. I hope one can respect that when we think it's not possible, it's actually an important intention when we have taken our decisions. So to the specific question of what further coal use on Svalbard has to do with global warming. If I'm going to be completely honest, I think the answer must be zero and nothing. It is such that the total amount of carbon you export from Svalbard is approximately. two per million of the world market. I feel a hundred percent sure that if we had today chosen to shut down that activity on Svalbard, it wouldn't turn the price off any place. Others would have increased their output. We know that the biggest competitor of Svea is in Australia, and with the expensive cargo that would have been the result, one cannot ignore the fact that the global climate account would be negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1033	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1036	Although this is a matter that is really about granting money to new share capital to the company Stor Stor Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani, it is nevertheless – not quite unexpected – a certain tendency to start a new debate on coal production on Svalbard. The rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of the majority position of the Economic and Social Committee. There are just a few points I want to add on behalf of the Right Magnifying Group. Obviously, there are also environmental elements in this debate, it cannot be hidden. It will always be those who will give greater attention and importance to the disadvantages of coal production and operation than others who believe that we need to see coal production on Svalbard in the context that we have always done over the last decade, as part of the overall Norwegian Svalbard policy, where the Svalbard Treaty and various foreign policy considerations need to be addressed in the most serious way. I think this is a positive case. It is positive in many ways, not least because the company itself, employees and the board of directors have done a good job developing the company and the Svea Nord project to the status it has today. Should this project have been stopped, it should have been done in 1999 when prospecting and development began. It is not possible today to take a rematch after a reduction of between 800 and 900 million. kr to prepare the production with the starting point you have today. The position should have been respected to have been taken in 1999 and not have been discussed today. New share capital shall be used as new equity in a newly created subsidiary separated from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani. The new company will then dispose of the facilities, properties and operating rights of the company in the Svea Nord area, and it will also take over liabilities. I cannot see that this case carries a greater risk of damage – nor does it cause environmental damage. It is positive that it clearly states that State grants are no longer to be granted to the parent company. It also opens for government sales down to 51 pst. in the subsidiary, as I think is positive. There is also a positive element that the board and the company must have the ambition to which the suspension relates, namely profitability in the best possible and most efficient operation. If there are any problems in discussing ceilings of production, which must be a matter for which the board has to take a special responsibility, then the owners will always have the opportunity to take up this relationship. I must also stress to those who stress the environmental issue and believe that it is most effective to say no to coal production on Svalbard: if this is part of an environmental policy approach, you will also have to follow that reasoning further, and follow it out completely, which must mean that the consumption of coal in Norway is no longer to be maintained – and it is a level far beyond what Svea Nord is going to produce. This means, for example, that the cement furnaces in Tysfjord have to be shut down, with the consequences it has for the community of Tysfjord, but not with the consequence that one achieves it better environment on the globe as such. I also believe that a strange measure that stopped in Norwegian coal production will not produce any less coal production on Svalbard, rather on the contrary. There are other nations that will gladly be able to jump into the Norwegian facilities, only for a certain period of time. This means that one will still have the same level of coal production as today, only on other hands. And that will clearly help to weaken the Norwegian interests in an area that has not had less topicality in recent years. In this regard, I refer you to a statement in the Evening Post last Monday, which documents not least the Russian interest in further and strengthened involvement on the island group. We all understand and know why they have these interests, and why they have this commitment. They even suggest that they can imagine slowing down the rate of coal extraction just to make the activity last longer. And it is obvious for the first time that the Russian state is strongly subsidising the Russian business on the island group. Overall, the conclusion is that if the decisions concerning the closure of coal production at Svalbard had been taken, they should have been taken in 1999 at the latest and not today. The conclusion of the Right is therefore that we support the proposition as such and the majority position of the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1057	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1061	We have an author, Rolf Jacobsen, who writes: It is far this country – most of it is north. And mostly north, that's Svalbard. We in the committee were delighted to visit Svalbard for a short time. Suffering if it was dark, it was interesting to see a little bit of life going on there. I agree with previous speakers that Norway has very special obligations in relation to Svalbard. It's a society that we have to treat in a very special way for several reasons. First, there is a viable society, with between 1,500 and 2,000 inhabitants, who deserve to live on. Many people think it's good to live in that society. Secondly, according to the Versailles Treaty of 1920, we have an obligation to take care of that part of Norway, a very marginal part, which means that we must act with caution and with wisdom when making decisions on how to deal with the Svalbard region. I have no doubt that it is important to ensure Norwegian sovereignty at Svalbard, that there is a minimum of a settlement. We cannot over time assume any sovereignty if there are only a few researchers and work there. Then I think it over time will be weakened. We have to have a population there that is so large that it exceeds the concept of critical mass, that is. that we have a viable society of kindergartens, schools, secondary schools, etc., which is required for a community to function well. So the question is, how are we going to care for a viable community in Longyearbyen and at Svalbard? The solution so far has been to operate coal. It's been going on for many years, and we're now facing an era of more offensive and greater exploitation than we've had in very many years. It will ensure a good deal of jobs. But it will also mean a slowing down of the population of Svalbard, because, after the information we have received from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani, it is set up to significantly reduce staffing in the next few years because of the automation and efficiency of the mine. If you do nothing but what's happening now, the population base will weaken on Svalbard. That is why we in SV believe that we need to start a conversion programme for Svalbard, a programme in which we add some new work tasks to the Svalbard community. So what kind of work tasks should that be? It will certainly be said from the other parties: we have tried conversion programmes in mining communities in the past, and it has been a failure. I agree. In many mining communities, the conversion programmes have been a failure, but it's because you haven't really taken it seriously. You have given a few kroner to get peace and not choose to go into such conversion jobs with full weight. I myself have experience of this and have seen two mining communities being laid down. And I've experienced the ambiguity of central government in this matter of conversion. We can't wear Svalbard like that. In the case of Svalbard, we have special obligations. We have to start a conversion program where we invest resources that make sure we live. So for the time being, SV has stated that we do not want to continue mining at Svalbard. It's not because we don't see the need to have jobs, and it's not because we don't see the need to take care of the commitments we have on Svalbard, but it's because we want to have a match between life and learning in environmental policy. We want to have consistency between life and learning, where we say we want energy carriers other than those that pollute. We want to bet on other types of energy sources. Then we have to be consistent, searing about it pain – at least it hurts me to say no to important jobs in the Svalbard community. I agree that a good deal of important action has been taken to ensure the environment. Looking at the transport through the Akselsundet – which has perhaps been the most debated – there has been a good deal of action to ensure that it is as good as possible. I'm a little uncertain about how good it is. In the hearings we've had in Stortinget, we've got numbers from 14 meters to 20 meters at the depth of this sound. It's strange that it's not possible to get an exact number on how deep it is. It almost reminds me of the boy Odin in Olav Duun's book who asked Bendi when they stood and looked out at the sea out there on the Fosen: Is he deep, the sea? Yes, he's now going over your guts, Bendik replied. I've felt this way -- the numbers are kind of swinging, kind of approximate. It tells me that there may be a risk of environmental accidents on Svalbard, boat accidents that could lead to environmental disasters. We must be aware that there is a danger there. But the main reason we're going against is not that piece, because I think it's reasonably well taken care of, but it's the climate emissions that coal leads to. In the end, I just want to say that on the SV side, we are prepared – if we had a majority in favour of it – to spend the money now going to the companies, to a ten-year conversion programme, where we should have brought with us professionals, people from the community in Longyearbyen and a number of others to try to get new jobs on Svalbard, both in research, education and tourism, and also in areas where today's workers, through training and after-training, could have clothed some of the new jobs. But we record that there is no majority for it, and that there is still coal drift on Svalbard. We just have to take note of that. But the reason why SV lands on this point is that we want to have a life-to-learning match in environmental policy. With this I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1084	Inge Ryan has promoted the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1087	Coal is a central element of a Norwegian Svalbard policy, where the Svalbard Treaty and foreign policy play a central role. This includes, among other things: provided the basis for the emergence of a viable community established and of utmost importance for Norwegian sovereignty on the island group. Nutritionally, such communities do not tolerate abrupt changes. For this reason, the Christian People's Party has joined forces for the success of coal operations on Svalbard in the new Minuva Svea Nord. The Christian People’s Party also supports the state’s entry into existence of 150 million. kr, and provided that the further operation is balanced. The activities of Svalbard shall be within the environmental framework established by the environmental authorities following the impact assessments and recommendations of those bodies. The environmental policy aspects of the extraction of coal from the Svea Nord field have been discussed in the opinion of the Committee. In particular, the Christian People's Party is busy that the deployment of the coal through the vulnerable Axle Sun will take place in a defensive way. We believe, together with the majority of the committee, that the sailing grounds that are currently under way take this into account. We believe that a general discharge for Svalbard is nevertheless inconceivable. This also applies in relation to the increased cruise traffic on Svalbard. Furthermore, the ships used for this transport are such that the fuel is on deck. This means we are an extra insurance in case of an accident. In addition, one environmental point of view has stressed that a new route from Longyearbyen to Svea Nord was undesirable because it would have represented a major intervention in an almost pristine and fascinating nature. From this point of view, the Christian People's Party feels that it is right to give green light to a permanent operation of Svea Nord. We must admit that it is basically difficult to defend coal as a future energy bearer, and that Norway is involved in this. But we will, both as a party and in cooperation with the Government, bet on an increased research and development of new forms of energy that can in the long run take over the dominant role of coal in the world's power and energy supply. But in the situation we are in now, think the Christian People's Party is right to give Svalbard the green light for this enterprise, which together with the other two pillars on which the community builds – research and tourism – can help to create a stable and good settlement on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1102	There is no simple question of Stortingen having to deal with today. In many ways, I think it is a question that bears many of the classic balances that need to be made between business, community and environmental considerations. In a broader perspective, it is also an important choice for the Svalbard community and for the entire Norwegian Svalbard policy. The centre party has come to the conclusion that we believe it is right to give green light for further coal operations at Svalbard. We're not doing that without a certain doubt. We'll do it after a thorough discussion. On the one hand, environmental considerations indicate that coal operations should not be encouraged. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the local community of Svalbard will be significantly weakened if no further coal activity is allowed. It will again have an impact on the ability to manage our interests under the Svalbard Treaty. I don't think at all any of the parties deserve to minimize the dilemmas that this question poses, whether we are in favour of or towards further coal mining. The centre party places great emphasis on what the Svalbard community says about its own future. I experience it so that there is a unanimous voice from those who live and work on Svalbard, around the question. What is said about this must be taken seriously. For my part and for my part, it will weigh heavier than what is said in an interministerial working group in that way. I also think there is reason to point out that the proposition refers to the fact that as much as one third of the student and kindergarten grounds can be lost if mining is discontinued. It's assumed that this, including ring effects, could reduce the population in Longyearbyen by about 450 people. It is a very important issue for local society. So coal extraction as environmental issues. Coal extraction is not an environmentally friendly activity. There are concerns we have to face in our eyes. I don't think it's so very relevant in that context to discuss whether the coal is more or less clean – I must honestly say that. Coal production is associated with environmental problems. That's a fact we have to relate to. At the same time, however, we need to be willing to make the necessary balances between different considerations – in this case the consideration of the Svalbard Treaty, of the community on Svalbard and of environmental issues. Now, environmental considerations are linked not only to coal operations themselves, but also to how the coal is shipped out and to transport to the market. There is also a problem raised by the Committee in its position. It's a long-term choice that one actually takes today, and the Center Party seems in that context that it would have been natural for one, when given green light for further coal operations, to take an overall review of the safety at sea around Svalbard. It's an Achilles heel not only for the coal industry, but also for other transport. In our opinion, both in relation to coal transport and to other ship traffic, the obligation of unloading should apply to the Svalbard area. I also believe that when it comes to the decommissioning of coal, one should in the future make sure that it is the most environmentally friendly fuel used during transportation. Svalbard will have more legs to stand on in the years to come, following the decision taken today in the Storting. I really believe that there is some optimism about the Svalbard business. Tourism will be important, but it has its limitations. Research activity will be important, but it cannot contribute alone or together with tourism to the stability that local society in Svalbard will need. It is, after all, the coal industry that will make a significant contribution to achieving the interoperability of different activities necessary for the further development of the Svalbard community. As far as the coal economy is concerned, it is assumed from the point of view of the Storting that further operations will be carried out with profitability and without State subsidies. But I have to say that when I hear the argument of the majority here today in relation to sovereignty and in relation to community, it's probably not automatically stated that we can say that a liquidation would have been quite fine if the business could not take place without state subsidies. In relation to the argument that some people have used here today, I think we could have come to meet the sails at the door. However, the Committee agrees on this point. There is also broad agreement on the new company organisation and the allocation of 150 million. kr to share capital of the new company. With this I would like to address the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 from the Center Party. At the same time, I will be allowed to convert these proposals into transmission proposals. In the light of the signals coming from several parties today, I have a hope that in a broader context and in a broader debate, there will be the opportunity to re-examine these questions in order to get a say in them if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1125	Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to, and she has converted them into transmission proposals. The text of the proposals will be converted in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1128	The Arctic environment at Svalbard is highly vulnerable to intervention. The question of further coal mining on Svalbard travels difficult balances. For an environmental party such as the Left, it is particularly important that the environmental concerns are well taken care of. It is therefore an important requirement that operations in the Svea Nord field should be carried out in accordance with the Svalbard Environmental Act and in the light of the broad impact assessment carried out. The left continues to ensure that the deployment is carried out in such a way that both environmental concerns and safety are fully taken care of. The government is considering whether the non-execution obligation should be extended to the Svalbard area in general. We cannot accept accidents in such a vulnerable area, whether they involve the launching of coal or other transport. And I have to be allowed to say that I am happy that the Central Party made their proposals for transmission proposals. For the Left, it is also a central requirement that further coal operations in the Svea Nord should be carried out without further State support. It is important that Norway takes care of its obligations under the Svalbard Treaty. A premise for this is that Norway is sufficiently present on Svalbard. The coal industry has a long tradition of Svalbard and has become the most important foundation for settlement in the Svalbard community throughout the year. This has been important for the activity that is gradually built around tourism, research and education. The majority of the Committee emphasises in its opinion that Svalbard's political and international legal situation is unique in the world context, and that Norway has a particularly high responsibility in exercising sovereignty on Svalbard in a way that ensures stability, protection of the wild environment and responsible resource management. The left is not overconfident that these important considerations would be sufficiently taken care of if Norway is less present on Svalbard. I believe that other industries will not be able to take over the role of coal industry today, and that extraction in Svea Nord will be necessary for a large enough Norwegian presence in the future and for the enforcement of sovereignty. Furthermore, it is important to stress that other activities on Svalbard are not without environmental consequences. Among other things, a strong increase in tourist traffic on Svalbard will seriously affect the highly vulnerable Arctic natural environment. If you want a Norwegian environment of a certain size for Svalbard in the future, you don't know that alternatives to carbon dioxide will be more environmentally friendly. It must also be allowed to point out that neither the Socialist Left Party, which in the setting is the only party that is heading towards extraction in Svea Nord, seems to have an alternative to this activity on Svalbard. The only proposal from SV is an unobligatory fund for the conversion of the Svalbard community. We don't know what would come out of such a program. The left will underline that the question of further coal mining on Svalbard is not a simple choice. Nevertheless, we believe that with the clear premises underlying environmental considerations and security, opening up regular operations in Svea Nord will be justifiable. Left supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1163	The left's representative said that the only SV has to come into this case is a proposal for a small non-obligatory fund. I have to say, an amount of 150 million. kr to a conversion program at Svalbard is not small. Does the representative from the Left think it's a small fund? That's the one question. SV has always said that we want other types of activity on Svalbard. We have some concrete proposals we could have made, but we don't think that that's right, because both those who live on Svalbard today and some professionals in the picture should get to know this properly, so that you can come up with something that is realistic and that can actually be implemented. Do we agree that a thorough investigation should be carried out in order to run such a conversion program?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1172	There has been a discussion about a Svalbard conversion process over several years. It has been a discussion of whether to continue to operate coal, and whether to operate coal with state support or not. And there's been a development both when it's about the research piece, and when it's about the education piece. But what I wanted to do with the criticism of SV is that I didn't think they came up with clear enough alternatives to coal. That discussion has taken place in the Svalbard community. They may be able to continue a discussion about getting more jobs, workplaces that take special environmental considerations that need to be taken into account if jobs are to be established at Svalbard. But there is still a discussion going on. When it comes to the fund, we think what SV has come up with in the setting is a little too small a commitment that one can get proper alternatives to continuing coal operations on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1181	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1184	The coastal party is very pleased with the Committee's recommendation on continued coal operations on Svalbard. The coal industry is crucial for continued activity on Svalbard, in our opinion. From a regional policy perspective, it is important that this activity continues. It should also be noted that there are mainly people from the three northernmost states who are employed on Svalbard, so we consider that to be very important. In addition, when it turns out that the coal in the Svea Nord field is of particular good quality and among the purest on the market, as well as that the operation will not produce visible interference in nature, we can only indicate that we support the majority position of the committee. In addition, the coastal party will support proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, which has now been converted into a transmission proposal. I think it is very important to ask the Government to look at the safety at sea at Svalbard. Not only around Svalbard, but also throughout the Barents area, this should be a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1194	Today will be a special day for the Svalbard community. The coal industry at Svalbard has long traditions. It's a fact that this society is built up with coal-fired power as a base. What has come to be considered secondary industries. The transformation in the Svalbard community has been enormous. I belong to a generation that remembers other relationships on Svalbard well. The workpiece was also very stable at the time. Those who got a job at Svalbard were guaranteed a good income, although it meant hard work and long stay away from family and local environment. The travel and contact possibilities with the home were also very limited at the time. Nevertheless, Svalbard – then as it is now – was the dream of many as a workplace. Even today, Svalbard has stable labour force, and it is still the case that northern districts are best represented among the workers. Over 70 pst. of the employees are from North Norway, and it is clear that this has an impact on the settlement in the districts of that part of the country. A stable Norwegian presence on Svalbard is a prerequisite for a credible and effective exercise of sovereignty. In this context, coal production is very important. Today, Svalbard has a large proportion of families, and there is an active business and a good service offer. This we must make sure to maintain in the future as well. There is reason to rejoice that we can now continue the coal operation on Svalbard without in the future having to collect large public sums of money in operation, but instead get income. New technology and good coal quality make it profitable in the future to extract coal from Svalbard. This year, production is expected to rise to 1.8 million tonnes from the new Strossa in Svea North. The members of the Economic and Social Committee have seen for themselves how this is being done. In no way can employment and efficiency be compared to what was common mining a few years ago. Today, operators are under sheltered mountains and control machines by remote control. The Committee was briefed on training, safety provisions and protective equipment. Over the last few years, a comprehensive training programme has been implemented which has resulted in most miners taking professional letters. We experienced a very positive work force that was genuinely happy at its place of work, and was waiting for the decision here in Stortinget. Environmental issues have been prominent in the debate on further coal mining at Svalbard. Coal, oil and natural gas are the most widely distributed fossil energy sources worldwide. This is also the most problematic form of energy in terms of emissions. This, of course, creates an important debate, but in any case it is that this energy production will continue to increase, and there is nothing to suggest that the share of the coal will be reduced. When we know, as it has been said earlier today, that coal from Great Norwegian will make up 2 per million of world production, this is put into perspective. I have great confidence in the comprehensive impact assessments that have been carried out, including: concludes that coal from Svea is the most environmentally friendly alternative compared to coal from other supplier countries. I am pleased that the Storting will today adopt further coal drift on Svalbard, and that we can now get a long-term for this vital mining community. This must be a good Christmas greeting to everyone who's at Svalbard, and to the rest of us in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1217	I am pleased to note that there seems to be broad political agreement on the overall objectives and main features of Norwegian Svalbard policy, and that the issue of the Norwegian coal industry at Svalbard is being discussed in this context. The majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to provide green light for the opening of regular production operations in the Svea Nord field after the arrangement mentioned in the proposal, which suggests that 150 million be granted. kr in new share capital for these activities. Through the decision by Stortinget today, we will all hope and believe that we are now laying the basis for a long-term continuation of the Norwegian coal industry at Svalbard, based on profitable operations. Norway has important national interests to care for in Svalbard. These interests are linked both to the maintenance of Norwegian society on the island group, to the protection of the environment, to the maintenance of calm and stability in the area and to the strengthening of sovereignty. The Norwegian coal industry cannot therefore be considered in isolation but must be assessed in the framework of Norwegian Svalbard policy. The need for an annual activity of a certain extent, as a basis for permanent Norwegian presence, is an important element in this context. In the position of the Liaison Committee, it is important for society in Longyearbyen to be maintained as it is today, and for society to be further developed. This must be seen in the context of Norway exercising sovereignty on the island group in a way that ensures peace, stability, protection of the wilderness environment and responsible resource management. I agree with this, and will add that the most credible and stable Norwegian presence in Svalbard ensures by facilitating and developing activities that have a sound economic foundation. Large Norwegians have been dependent for many years on substantial state aid for operations and investments. Most people agree that such a situation cannot continue. The proposal to provide green light for production operations in Svea Nord is based on the fact that the coal business of Great Norske is distinguished into a wholly-owned subsidiary which can be operated on a commercial basis and without State aid. With the equity now transferred to the company and the flexibility granted by the company to adapt the annual production volumes to market developments, the company should now be able to stand on its own financial footing. When I see the impressive effort and enthusiasm that have been put into the project by all employees in Great Norwegian so far, I have the absolute greatest hope that the company will meet this challenge. A majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee agrees that Norwegian mining at Svalbard should be profitable, and stresses – as the Government also does in the proposal – that in the event of liquidation: ‘the State which owns will have to make a thorough and comprehensive assessment of the best way to safeguard Norwegian interests in Svalbard, also in relation to the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty.’ With the decision taken today by the Stortinget, we will hopefully not face such a problem in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, we are pleased to note that there is broad agreement on the type of assessment to be carried out. When coal operations become permanent, the importance of safety and the environment must be given to them. Coal operations shall take place under environmental conditions established by environmental protection authorities and in accordance with the rules laid down in the Svalbard Environmental Act. And as the committee leader said in his post, the negative impact on the positives has been assessed. The views of the Government are set out in the proposal and in so far as the Committee's position is concerned. I have noted that a majority in the Committee is asking the Government to assess whether environmental safety is being better protected by the introduction of an obligation to discharge the coal ships. This question will of course be followed up. If the Storting decides today in line with the recommendation of a majority in the committee, I will start the follow-up to the decision at a general meeting in Great Norwegian which it has been called to tomorrow. The capital increase will be adopted. After that, it will largely be up to the company itself. With regard to the proposals of the Centre Party, proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 – which have now been turned into transmission proposals, I see, like other speakers, that there are important issues that are addressed. And it's an exposure to securing the shipping around Svalbard in general, not just in coal transport. These are things I'm definitely going to take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1253	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1256	It made the impression on me to visit the Svalbard community for the first time, and it made the impression to be inside the mine in Svea and see the modern and efficient exploitation of coal. But I wouldn't have done my job if I wasn't able to put these impressions into perspective when I got home. I have to admit, unfortunately, that I am not sure if the bulk of the money has taken that task as seriously as SV has done. It seems that there are no limits to how much money the bulk of population is willing to spend on environmentally hostile production in this country. I really wish that the bulk of the population would be willing instead to spend the money on the transition to a more viable business. If we had spent this 150 million. kr in another way, I'm sure we could get a lot of excitement on Svalbard, which is a little bit more forward-looking than coal. I have to say that the bulk of the population is debatable from the climate consequences. I thought there was only one party on Stortinget that doesn't believe in the greenhouse effect, now I'm fooling. There has been no great doubt to trace in this debate. The majority seem to overestimate that coal is the only way to assert Norwegian sovereignty on Svalbard. I thought this security is a little weird. We have the conclusion from the Steinnes selection to consider if we want. It was concluded that the continuation of coal operations was not necessary to maintain the construction in order to assert Norwegian sovereignty. I'm surprised that the bulk of the population is so over-conceived that the opposite is the case. I fully understand that the Svalbard community is celebrating this day. It's not society's struggle to survive SV are opponents of, on the contrary. We just want this survival to happen in a more forward-looking way. That being said, I still want to use the opportunity to congratulate society on the day. Of course, SV is also happy that the case is clarified, even though I am overconfident that our proposal would have been an equally good guarantee that society will survive, and a much better guarantee that Norway will take the international climate commitments seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1269	I would like to refer you to Mr Solholm's speech on the position of the majority. The Progress Party is also a member of the majority in terms of what is desirable for the further development of Svalbard. I also agree with the representative Bendiks Arnesen that this must be the greatest Christmas gift the Svalbard community can get, because security is being created about future developments. But it's a prerequisite that's taken into account, and it's that this should be largely driven economically economically. The Progress Party does not usually support proposals for government grants to unprofitable state-run industries, but we have made one exception. Every year we have supported the mining activity at Svalbard because it has to do with sovereignty over the island group. The long line in Norwegian svalbard policy has been to ensure a credible Norwegian government since the Svalbard Treaty of 1920. This has been achieved primarily through consistent compliance with the provisions of the Treaty and the maintenance of Norwegian activities, where coal operations have been decisive and central. Nevertheless, the business as it has evolved has become expensive, with a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars in net per. the population. Therefore, it has also been the case in the Progress Party that we have discussed from time to time whether there have been alternative solutions and development pathways that have been appropriate for the Svalbard community. Now that the Svea Nord solution has crystallized itself as a realistic alternative, we're happy about that. I support the contributions of the majority in this room, and the arguments that are put here in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1288	There shall be a vote on cases No. 2 to 4 and points Eight. There is no voting theme in case No. 1, and case No. 5–7 will be discussed at a later meeting, probably on 10 January 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1295	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 2 and 3, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1382	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2001 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner5800 State Petroleum Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800):]] Jan Tore Sanner has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1427	That proposal relates in particular to the fact that the cooperation parties will vote against the increase in cape. 248 item 21, as shown in the setting. If our proposal falls there, it would also be natural to draw proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1432	Yes, the President understands this. The president thought that this matter was settled during a debate earlier this week, but when the parties want to put forward that proposal again, they will get a vote on it. That is why we are voting on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e1444	The President assumes that when we get to the vote on the Roman numerals, you can relate to it. We shall then vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, and which in itself is related to what was referred to by Jan Tore Sanner. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2001 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner5800 State Petroleum Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3229	First, the president wants to vote separately over the cape. 248 under I. It is assumed that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3252	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 2, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislation providing for tax exemptions for gifts provided through local funds to local organisations operating in the general interest of a non-commercial nature.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3274	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible for a significant increase in the deductible amount of grants to non-governmental organisations.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3314	Cases 5, 6 and 7 shall be deleted following a decision at the beginning of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3321	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2-4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party In the course of the debate, the author of the motion for a resolution has referred to the proposals of the Central Party as 'transmission proposals', and they will be amended accordingly. Proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that the unloading obligation be applied to Svalbard. The Government is asked to promote a separate case for how this is to be organised and financed. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Centre Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Stortinget with a maritime safety case at Svalbard.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Centre Party, sounds like modified text: ‘It is recommended to the Government to require the freight operators of Svalbard to use marine diesel under any transitional arrangement.’ These three proposals are now all in their form of transmission proposals, and the President will propose that they be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It is considered biphasic. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3417	The President assumes that the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-19.ana.ud51e3437	There is no record. The President uses the opportunity to wish all the representatives, all the employees of the Stortinget and the political groups of the Stortinget as well as the members of the press lodge, although they are not present, a really good Christmas, hopefully a peaceful Christmas holiday and a good start to the new year.
