ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e27	The representatives Hilde Frafjord Johnson and Tor Nymo, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates, for Hordaland County Kurt-Arne Langeland, and for Rogaland County Olaf Gedrem, have taken their seats. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e46	On behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to propose a change in the pension scheme for fishermen so that fishermen who are disqualified before the age of 60 are refunded a premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e51	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e54	On behalf of the representative Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a five-year escalation plan for the brand construction of Norway as a travel destination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e80	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland State Council Grete Knudsen State Council Ellen Horn The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e99	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it concerns the expansion of the number of permanent members of the Security Council. It is well anchored in the United Kingdom that Norway should be in favour of enlargement, and it is well anchored that Japan and Germany can become new members. Moreover, the position has been that one representative should be picked out for each of the three main regions, but Norway has not taken a position on which country would be represented, for example. Asia. Now I see that the government has nevertheless taken the position that India is to represent Asia, and my question is, why has the government not sought to anchor that position in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e108	I think you first have to say what you mean by 'the anchored in the Stortinget'. When Norway approached Japan and Germany, as Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland did, to the UN General Assembly, there was no discussion whatsoever with the Stortinget, as I was informed. We've dug in absolutely all the archives and found no trace of it. So you could say that this is the government. But there is an attitude about Japan and Germany in retrospect and the three regions. In the debate, there were several speakers, including the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, who spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Solheim and Mr Blankenborg raised questions about India's place. Minister for Foreign Affairs Vollebæk replied at that time: ‘I do not disagree with the representative Solheim’. And he added: «... and I take with me both his and the representative of Blankenborg's call to see positive in a place for India in the Security Council.» On that basis, the government has signaled to India that we see positive India's place as a global candidate. This country represents one-sixth of the earth's population. It's the largest democracy in the world, and I think it's hardly possible to get outside India if the Security Council is to be expanded. But I have to add: this is an ongoing process, which is otherwise quite still, and we have to be constantly prepared to be in a dialogue on these issues with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e123	I think this was a very weak anchoring in Stortinget, not least because a matter has just been dealt with on this issue. What is said by individual representatives in the debate is another question. This position also intersects the line that exists, among other things. The U.S. has gone on. My supplementary question is this: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs treat the other two regions in the same way as they have now treated Asia, namely that Norway also decides for a candidate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e130	It is a misunderstanding that Norway has picked out a candidate from one region, Asia. I said that we consider India to be a global candidate in line with Japan and Germany. Then there will be three regions in addition, as the Storting has also said, and as it has been in the cards all along. Moreover, I am amazed at the expression ‘single representatives’ when the case was actually raised by the case-rapporteur, and the head of the largest fraction in the Foreign Affairs Committee, Haakon Blankenborg. And then Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk replied that he looked positive at what was said and that he did not disagree with it. I feel that it is quite important that Norwegian foreign policy is consistent and that it can last beyond the government shifts. And of course, what Vollebæk said at the time, is noticed by other people than those sitting in this room, among other things. of the diplomatic corps. We've been asked if what Vollebæk said at the time, is also the new government line, and we've been positive that that's actually it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e139	There will be follow-up questions – Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e142	There are absolutely good reasons why India should become a new member of the Security Council when it is extended. But this issue also has relevance to a ongoing conflict between India and Pakistan regarding Kashmir. As you know, India has not yet followed up a long-standing UN resolution on, among other things. holding a referendum to seek a solution to the ongoing Kashmir conflict. My question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is therefore whether this issue has been raised with India, and also whether a person is assessing the issue of support for India's membership of the Security Council in the light of this, so that there is not an unreserved support, but that one can also use the process of extending the Security Council to promote, if possible, a solution to the unfortunate Kashmir conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e149	I do not know about the Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk, who was in the Government of the then Prime Minister Bondevik, considered this question, as Mr Bondevik now asks us to do. In fact, we've assumed that this is the world's greatest democracy, represents one-sixth of the earth's population and comes from the third world. We consider it difficult to get outside this large country if the Security Council is to be expanded. Then you can draw a lot of other questions that we have dialogue with India about. We shall continue to have that, but I do not think that too many cards should be mixed in the context of the Security Council's reform. It's hard enough as it is, to expand the Security Council. There's a lot of resistance to it. We've considered it necessary to have greater representation from the Third World, and then it's hard to get out of the world's absolute greatest democracy, which can also be the largest country in terms of population, in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e157	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e160	I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, Vollebæk, that he looked positively at India's candidacy. It is well that you can often say that you see one or more candidates in a positive way without finally stating that this is the candidate you want to support. I think there is a great difference between the previous government, which was so positive about it, that the Prime Minister now visits India, stating that Norway will support the candidacy of India. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if he agrees that there is a distinct difference between these two things. So I'm going to ask, if it turns out that it is e.g. is a majority in the Stortinget – now there have been critical remarks from the Right Leader and from the Christian People's Party's parliamentary leader, and I can join the two – who may not support India's candidacy, do the Foreign Minister agree that the majority in the Storinget decides this, and not the Government alone?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e169	If it turns out that there is a majority in the United Kingdom to oppose the fact that the world's greatest democracy and soon the largest nation in all its population are to be left outside the Security Council in the context of a reform, an extension of the Security Council, we will have to discuss it there and there. I doubt whether such a majority will establish itself when it comes to the matter. In that case you would get on the verge of a lot, not only in Norwegian foreign policy, but also with a lot beyond our own borders. So let's discuss that right there and then. Otherwise, I want to add: it's a process. We are in dialogue with many other countries, not least the Nordic countries, with which there is a strong tradition of co-ordination in terms of UN issues. We have to constantly relate to that process and see what positions we have. There's no pre-determined pattern here. Some are in favour of a major extension of the Security Council, others are not for anyone. We've been in the middle of it. What we have said now rhymes well with what has been said here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e178	The President will stress that there is no opportunity to pick up telephones in the main hall. This is particularly appropriate for Björn Hernæs, who is now sitting with a telephone. - Bjørn Hernæs, there's no way to sit on the phone in the hall! Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e185	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. The semi-state investment fund of DKK 5 billion has come a step closer. The Government proposes a State investment company to place its funds in a number of regional funds together with private companies, which are to be independent of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The government has on several occasions said that new state jobs should not be created in the Oslo area. This was said most recently when the regional communication was presented, but it also appears in the long-term programme. The principal company, i.e. the state, is going to be very important. There will be a strategy for this investment activity, which will determine the amount to be invested in the various funds, and probably the cities in which they will be invested. It will also be determined who will sit as directors of the various regional funds. Can the Council of State promise that the main base of the state investment company will not be in the central eastern region?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e196	Last Friday the government presented the big news to the Stortinget, so it is now in Stortinget for treatment. The government has not been involved in the localisation discussion, because it has been much more important to ensure that enough investors are made available to this fund, which is willing to go into the business areas, which have actually been identified by the majority of the Storting, which relate to biotechnology, the marine sector, ICT, the environment and energy. What has been our intention is that the funds that might be filled up in relation to the business idea, they will come to the places where the businesses are. But we have to take one thing at a time. The most important thing now is to get the investors who will be with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e203	My question was about the purely state-owned investment company that is going to manage NOK 2.5 billion and that is going to bring private investors. Of course, it has to get started before you get the private ones involved. We have a strong centralization, and a new way of thinking is needed to stop it. Then there are some jobs that are more important than others in terms of where they are located, and I believe that where this Grete Knudsen fund is located will give a strong signal. It is important that the location does not become such that it strengthens the centralisation and the district uprisings that we have. I believe that the location of the fund is so important that the Storting actually has to clarify it. I also believe that, for reasons other than centralisation, it is healthy to spread fund managers in this country. The previous government worked to strengthen Trondheim as a financial center. Not least there is a good and strong environment for innovation and commercialisation, and SIVA is a nationwide innovation actor who has succeeded well. Will the Council of State focus on what I'm referring to here, on the choice of location?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e214	What's most important now, it's that we get private investors with respect to the business ideas that the majority of Storting has put up, including the Morten Lund of the Center Party. So the first and most important responsibility for the state part's business will be to raise the money. It's the most important thing! Then, in the next round, you have to see where there will be enough fund investors and business to make sure that the different funds will eventually be located, because as the government has committed, there will probably be more funds. It won't just be one fund. And if there is investment will from Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Tromsø – from all those who have been active and developed this model – the different funds will also be placed there. But to decide in advance, long before you have received that money, seems to be completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e219	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e222	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have registered that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has received strong opposition from the circles within the Workers' Party and the trade movement for his Middle East policy. In my opinion, much of this criticism is deeply unfair. If you were to follow it, it would include: Destruct much of Norway’s role in peacemaking. So my question is briefly as follows: Will the Foreign Minister stick to his line in Middle East policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e231	I don't think it's right to say that we've got a'strong countermeasure'. There have been some views from some circles that have been considerably exaggerated by a press agency for that purpose, I think. Otherwise, I would say that I and this government are going to stick to the line that we have, and that is to assist the parties to come back to the negotiating table, and to assist the Palestinian authorities now to overcome the economic crisis. We are chairing the committee that is working on this on an international basis. I am going to go to New York tomorrow to finish the work of the Committee appointed by the Secretary-General of the United States and the President of the United States to look at the causes of violence, and I will make recommendations on how to curb violence and get back into a negotiating phase. We believe that our recommendations can mean something to both parties. We have worked on that basis, and we continue to work on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e239	I thank you for your answer. Whether or not it is ‘powerful countermeasures’ that include: has been published in the Newspaper, which is probably an attempt to reduce the criticism. If a reader's word and expression used here, I find it a little difficult to understand that this does not qualify for such a modest expression as a "strong countermeasure". But that's not the most important thing here. The important thing is, and I am pleased, that, despite this strong criticism, the Foreign Minister maintains his line in the Middle East policy, and he will have our support here in the Grand Duchy. There are more problems, including: that the leader of the Palestinians, Yasir Arafat, has not wanted to distance himself publicly from all violence. It has provoked the Israelis. And the problem on the other hand is of course, among other things. Israel has had overreactions to the violence that has taken place on the part of the Palestinians. Otherwise, in my view, there is also a need for a regional approach to this conflict, where one must also involve the surrounding countries. I think I'll end with this. I really don't need any additional questions, because I was well satisfied with the Foreign Minister's answer and hope he feels that it is a support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e248	I can only answer that Norway in the United Nations has voted for Israel's response to the intifada to be excessive in power use, but we have also been in line with other important actors in this that point to the problems that violence on the Palestinian side leads to. There have been terrorist actions against the Israeli population, and this has led to an atmosphere on that side, too, which makes it difficult to reopen the peace negotiations. Moreover, I will also place considerable emphasis on the Israeli settlements and the security problems it creates, and the negative attitudes that this now creates on the Palestinian side. So there are many facets of this conflict. I believe that when the Mitchell report comes to the table – we will finish the work on it in New York tomorrow and Friday – it will be a balanced presentation, and we hope that it can form the basis for getting into a better phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e255	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e258	If Kjell Magne Bondevik is satisfied that Norwegian foreign policy in the Middle East is firm, then we are not satisfied that Norwegian Middle East policy is firm when everything else changes in the worse direction. It is simply so that after the last elections in Israel, a worsening situation has arisen. Sharon is elected on a declaration of war against the Palestinians. Norway was among the last to say clearly that there is a difference between a power occupying a country and those occupied. We thought it was embarrassing that when Israel moved into Gaza and Powell, the US Secretary of State, distanced itself from this, the EU got on the track and Israel pulled out, only when Norway thought it was in place to protest, when all the others had protested. Isn't it just time for Norway to sharpen its tone to Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e265	The production given here is directly crazy. We were before the Americans. We were before the European Union. I called Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and told him about the Norwegian attitude towards their invasion of the A-areas of Gaza, and said that they should withdraw, because there were areas that Israel had left to Palestinian authorities. This happened before Colin Powell got on the field. That happened before I knew he would get on the track, and that happened before the EU also came out with its statement. So this is directly wrong. But I've seen that someone has produced it the way Kristin Halvorsen now does, and she's based on that representation. But it's wrong. My position was in the newspaper the morning after this happened, and it was printed in the newspaper before Colin Powell had made his statement – in fact many hours before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e270	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e273	I have a question for the Foreign Minister about the way Norway takes care of its obligations on Svalbard after the Svalbard Treaty. According to news reports, there is a growing, possibly growing, disagreement as to Norway’s view of the protection interests and Russia’s views on exercising its rights to business — that is, the classic conflict: protection interests against business. What I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether he can assure the Storting that Norway, if we are to have a very tough attitude towards Russia, ensures its support from the other Signatories of the Svalbard Treaty, so that we do not risk going so high on the ground that we can also dispel other important countries in such a potential conflict – which may occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e280	I hope no Norwegian government – current or future – will do what Hagen now recommends, namely to play games among the other Signatories of the Svalbard Treaty. The Svalbard Treaty unequivocally states that Norway has full sovereignty over Svalbard, that we have the right to exercise our powers there, provided that we do not prejudice or discriminate against anyone who has signed the treaty. Of course, we are not in any consultations with other countries about how to deal with what is Norwegian authority exercise, which we have the right to exercise on behalf of Norway in relation to the Signatories Act. In my opinion, it would be to bring us into a situation we shouldn't be in, where just countries would be able to question Norwegian sovereignty over Svalbard. As regards the environmental protection provisions, they are in accordance with the Svalbard Treaty. Of course, we will take due account of those present at Svalbard, but within the framework provided by this Environmental Protection Act. It is quite clear that the environment must be at the top of the agenda for Svalbard. But at the same time, we need to ensure that those countries that want to be there, who have been there, and have long traditions to be there, can do business. The cards must not be mixed, as Carl I. Hagen is now trying – that on Svalbard we should enter into alliances with other countries in relation to one signatory power. I would strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e289	I do not agree with the presentation of my question that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now giving. Over the years, there have been several cases concerning the right of sovereignty conferred on Norway by the Svalbard Treaty. What I want to make sure that the Government intends to follow is not to contribute to the growing conflict of sovereignty in Norway and the exercise of the powers conferred on us by the Treaty, and to the purpose of asserting sovereignty that there should be no major conflicts. There have already been enough conflicts around Svalbard. I assume that the Foreign Minister agrees that the purpose is to exercise sovereignty under the Treaty, to the full satisfaction of the other Signatories.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e294	There's a way to create confusion about Norwegian swallowing policy, and that's what Carl I. Hagen now recommends us. I am not aware of any case where we have consulted a group of countries that have signed this Treaty. I know that during the mining operations in 1925 we consulted all the countries that are signatories, and they approved it. But I do not know that we have consulted any country, or a group of countries, in relation to this. It would be to get us into a situation that we shouldn't be brought into. There's one way to make sure there's no confusion and problems around Svalbard. It is that Norway has a fixed line, a predictable line, and that one does not discriminate against anyone in relation to what is Norwegian legislation. But we have to hold on to the fact that there is Norwegian sovereignty that applies entirely to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e301	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e305	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question: Is it the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to have a debate on foreign policy issues? I have to say it has surprised me by several cross-roads that the Foreign Minister, when it comes to criticism – especially with regard to the discussion of Norway's position on the situation in the Middle East and what many see as being a too serious attitude towards Israel's abuse – is doing the best he can to deny how many there are who are raising such criticisms, and says that we, who are discussing foreign policy in Norway, are actually engaged in a domestic political debate, for quite different reasons from what is the situation in the Middle East. Last but not least, Jagland thought that people who criticized Norway’s role in the Middle East were sitting at home and cooking! Is this a way to encourage a schooled debate on Norwegian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e314	I am a little surprised at what has happened here in the hall today. First, a formal debate on the right of the absolutely largest country in the world to sit on the UN Security Council, should it be extended, namely India – perhaps in order to secure some marginal votes at the elections, what do I know? Then one starts to question Norwegian Svalbard policy, which is predictable, which is firm. And then you give a direct crazy information about what we've done in the Middle East, and what we stand for there -- that's the last question, from Kristian Halvorsen. I'm a little surprised at that. I would also like to see a debate on Norwegian Middle East policy. I understand very well the attitudes that are in parts of the Norwegian people, who are in the Workers' Party. I wrote in an article in the Newspaper on Sunday that the fact that people are now pointing their eyes at Israel is natural, because they have the greatest apparatus of power, and the Palestinians lack their freedom. It is in line with the solidarity instinct of the labour movement to take sides with the one who has the greatest apparatus of power, when you see what's going on. But that doesn't mean that one should describe Norwegian foreign policy in a completely wrong way, as I feel is happening in many circles now. It's a completely wrong statement to say that we haven't distanced ourselves from Israel's use of violence. However, like the rest of the international community – at least those with whom we have to coordinate, which is essentially the EU, Russia and the United States – we have also pointed out that there are two parties, and that there is also violence from the other party, which leads to the situation being almost hopeless for those in Israel who want to resume the peace negotiations. You have to point that out, too. We must have a balanced picture in this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e323	It is not the case that SV’s leader participates in some sort of persecution raid on the foreign minister in different foreign policy fields, and wants to misunderstand. I don't think it's wise to call some electoral groups, especially in the Oslo area, ‘marginal votes’ and to link them to the question of possible Indian participation in the Security Council. However, it is quite arduous to participate in a foreign policy debate if the attitude of the Foreign Minister every time criticism arises is that it is false – every time the criticism becomes quite strong as to what role Norway should play when the Oslo process is dead, when it is no longer possible to be a neutral bridge builder between two parties, and when it is actually such that a Western country is needed to say that there is a difference between an occupant and one that is occupied. To challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do so must be a legitimate, most necessary and very important political debate for the Norwegian big business — and otherwise — to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e330	As far as India is concerned, I think you need to raise this question from such a level as what you could possibly earn in an election campaign here in Norway. It's about the world's greatest democracy, and it represents 1/6 of the Earth's population. Then you have to look at it, instead of having a completely different perspective when you're going to discuss it. That's what I was pointing at. In addition, Norwegian foreign policy and Middle East policy have been based on what Kristin Halvorsen says. There are three important pillars of Norwegian Middle East policy: it is the splitting plan of 1947, which establishes the establishment of the State of Israel, and which gave the Palestinians the right to a state of their own. These are the resolutions of the Security Council – 242 and 338 – which state that the occupied territories concerned are occupied, and that Israel is an occupying party, and that otherwise also confirms, indirectly, that the Palestinians have a right to a Palestinian state. And the third is the Oslo Agreement, which states that the two parties are to negotiate this issue. It is on that basis that we have conducted Norwegian Middle East policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e337	There will be follow-up questions – Lisbet Ruggtvedt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e340	I would like to follow up the criticism of the Middle East policy. Thus, many feel the need for clearer responses to Israel, and the Newspaper today writes that the EU warns that Israel's actions can have consequences for Israel's trade. Some general boycott of Israel's goods don't want SV to go in on, but not to import goods from Israeli settlements in Palestinian territories seems reasonable, as SV sees it. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that we should impose restrictions on imports of goods from Israeli settlements in Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e349	I have to answer no to that. I don't think such a boycott would be possible without the boycotting of Israelis in general. If SV goes into it, I have to remember that, after what I thought at least, there has been a broad consensus in the Storting, at least between the Workers' Party and SV and several other parties, that unilateral boycotts from one country are not very appropriate. That's what the United States has been doing, and we've been critical of the United States very much. I thought SV stood for boycott attacks to be anchored in the UN Security Council. Now you're not just going to boycott a particular country, but parts of a country's trade. I think you're going to turn to a line that it's not possible to deal with, and that also contradicts what's formulated by politics in this area over many, many years. We were glad that Colin Powell came and said that we now had to reduce the unilateral boycotts from the United States. And then you have to go the opposite way from the Norwegian side!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e356	Kjell Magne Bondevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e359	When it comes to the last round of the Middle East, I've said in the past that the Government has essentially our support, so I'm not going to pursue it. What made me ask for the floor was that I reacted very strongly to the way the Minister for Foreign Affairs characterised previous questions in this spontaneous questioning hour, that this was about a forthcoming Norwegian election campaign and electoral groups in Norway. In my view, the question of India's place in the Security Council and the relationship with the Kashmir conflict and also the Middle East conflict is in itself such an important foreign policy issue that it must be possible to travel in a spontaneous question hour without encountering such an attitude by the Foreign Minister. Therefore, my question is: does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the issue of India's place in the Security Council and the relationship with the Kashmir conflict and also the Middle East conflict itself are so important foreign policy issues that they need to be discussed without meeting the position that this has to do with an impending Norwegian election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e368	I just notice that it has been drawn into the election campaign in a very unfortunate way, which will mean that you distance yourself from what is the perspective of this matter, namely that it is about the world's greatest democracy. Norway has long called for the poor countries to be better represented in the Security Council. When it comes to that question that you actually get that opportunity, you raise a big debate, despite the fact that former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk agreed by saying: I do not disagree, and I am positive about raising that question. Then there will be a question of a lack of continuity that I want to point out here, and for which there must be a reason. Moreover, I believe it is wrong to claim that Norway reacted to the US and the EU in relation to Israel's use of power in Gaza a short time ago. It is directly wrong to continue to claim it, and it must be possible for a Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs to point out it as well. I believe that the debate must be conducted on the basis of the facts, and not on the basis of what it is claimed that we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e375	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e379	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. It is known that both the current government and many in Norway are very concerned when we enter the IT age, that we should have critical competence and a culture-based competence. I am of those who believe that the Norwegian conversational lexicon tradition has built it up for a number of years and gave us something uniquely knowledgeable and cultural policy. We have now received clear messages in many ways that the database for Great Norwegian encyclopaedia is in danger. It is from those who are involved, before they would possibly do anything to damage this base, that they contacted the sitting government to find practical solutions. Does the Minister of Culture now see practical solutions that allow us to maintain this unique database as a basis for Norwegian culture, but also as a basis for operating – to say – critical online competence training? Because when the truth is a keystroke away, there must also be databases that are a keystroke away, that keep good quality, that we can rely on 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e388	On the country side, it is a clear intention to find a solution to the national knowledge base. We have had discussions, and we have today called on the Knowledge Publisher to discuss how the negotiations on the future of the national knowledge base should look. There are a number of questions that need to be resolved. For us, it is not the publisher in itself who needs to be saved, but this unique national knowledge base, which will be of great importance also for people's relations with technology and for Norway as a cultural nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e393	I thank the Council of State for expressing an active and positive attitude. I think it's very important to find a practical solution, because I experience a lot of what we can call the modern IT landscape, that people actually get a knowledge that's so fragmentary that they don't understand what they're seeing. In countries beyond our own, for example. other Nordic countries, today a lot of money — tens of millions — is spent on building such a database that we have now had for nearly 100 years. I just want to strongly encourage the Council of States to find a solution, and to ensure that this unique tax is retained in the IT age, so that the generation that is now using the keystrokes will also gain enough competence on the way to making a distinction between junk and what is of high quality on the Internet. I perceive the council so that she will. This is then a strong encouraging call to her to keep the pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e402	The information sector is changing considerably and old content is being sought in many new contexts. There are a number of issues that need to be resolved to ensure this unique knowledge, which will be of great importance to Norway as a cultural nation. The government is very busy finding a solution. We need to clarify a number of issues both with regard to other actors and with regard to the commercial part of this. We're going to come back to this, and we're putting a lot of pressure on finding a solution, maybe going into a two-three-year trial scheme to see how the base can be recovered by schoolchildren, libraries, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e409	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e412	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Under the Bondevik Government, six ministries took a joint initiative to promote entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurial skills of children and young people. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Industry took this interdisciplinary initiative, and the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research should be a coordinator. Many business organisations were very pleased that this initiative was taken. There are now many signs from the environment that they are missing the government’s commitment. What will the Minister of Industry do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e417	This initiative has been followed up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. We have had a number of consultations and meetings — and international meetings on entrepreneurship, including the younger garden. We have also proposed the adoption of the Entrepreneurship Directive, and we have had good cooperation with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, which has been involved in the practical preparations once we have conducted the very concrete debates and worked with those who are in concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e424	To make this an ordinary school business, funding is a core issue. I have experience from that from the job I used to have. Lasting arrangements are needed to put this in place. Will the Ministry of Economic Affairs take a greater responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e429	We've actually done that. It is we who have followed this up in practice, and I feel in a way that I have to find out exactly what this is all about, in order to know in which areas this should not have been followed up. As far as the attitude of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research is concerned, it is precisely that entrepreneurship should be an integral part of everyday school life – there should be nothing to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e436	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e439	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Almost two years ago, the Bondevik government established a programme for ‘Simplifying Norway’ to be incorporated into the new government’s programme for the renewal of the public sector. One assumption was that there would be reports every six months on the progress in this. Now it hasn't happened. The NHO has found in a report that some of these projects have stopped, been delayed or not implemented, and we still have 649 forms and registration obligations to which self-employed people must relate. When can our entrepreneurs and industrialists in this country expect to see concrete results from the government's work, which really means something when it comes to reducing and simplifying the form field in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e447	With regard to the NHO report to which the representative Hedstrom refers, it also showed that there was a good part of the measures that had actually been implemented. Furthermore, the Government has put forward a much wider renewal work, of which ‘Simplifying Norway’ is part. A very short time ago, the Economic and Social Committee gave a position regarding the consequences of both laws and regulations, and it has now outlined a scheme that it believes will be much better to ensure a simpler procedure. Their report will normally be sent to the hearing. So the government has a broad approach, while we are seeking to follow up the measures that came from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e454	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there are nine projects that have followed the progress plan or that have been implemented by the 46 projects into which the NHO has been involved. However, these have been simpler projects and projects that have not meant much, so that the Norwegian business community is losing faith in the fact that something will happen in practice that can undermine their everyday lives. The former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade promised to reduce the form field by 25 pst. in the course of two years. Can the Council of State give any indication of the same, so that the business community can regain its belief that this is not just going to happen, but that something that matters in practice for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e461	Now a study was made of how much former State Council Sponheim in practice the power to simplify, and he reached enough far near the goal which he himself had set himself in this field. I don't remember exactly, but it was at least far below the 25 pst. which was set up. I think it makes sense not to give any guarantees, but to have an offensive view of what should be done. Among other things, day-to-day management, which is now being worked on, will make it possible for business to go in and get information 24 hours a day in the areas where they are served. The whole construction site, which is a reversing area, will also be simplified by using a 24-hour administration. And, not least, there are regulations resulting from laws, which are now being proposed by the Food and Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e468	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e471	It is good that the Government has launched a broad and comprehensive simplification of systems and red tape in many areas, but it is also important to get a simplification that is perceived as a simpler everyday life in areas where businesses and citizens are struggling, and it is ‘Simplifying Norway’. It is therefore alarming that what has been carried out by these projects, as the NHO report shows, was mainly carried out before the government change. The report says that a large part of the projects are severely delayed or shrunk, and it is about the individual everyday life of these companies. An ambition of 25 pst. reduction of the form field will be achieved if the large project of the Directorate of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry are carried out, where the business tasks can be delivered electronically. Then there is a big fall in form simplification. That ambition I think my successor should also have. Because there is a consequence of this project now in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e478	I fully agree with that, and it is also under follow-up. In addition, in the project that the former government started and followed up after the Jagland government, namely business-friendly municipalities, we have also shown that there are other problems in everyday life that need to be resolved locally, where both the business community and the municipal staff meet. There are a lot of areas we have to go into, on the broad front, but the big deal in addition to that with the electronic one, as the representative Sponheim mentions, is to look at the regulations that result from the laws, to be able to go in and look at the consequences of the laws that this house actually adopts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e485	Then we've come to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e488	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. We're building new frigates, and we're also building a new coastguard vessel, which has a width that means you have to go a long way from farm before it can be docked. The Minister of Industry is aware that it has been working for a long time to get a maintenance base in the Harstad area. And my question is: When can you expect the Government to decide whether to establish a maintenance and service base for the new frigates in the Harstad area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e495	The representative Bastisen mentioned a maintenance base, a dry dock, in Harstad, but underlined that this was a defence maintenance of frigates and coastguard vessels. In addition, both the LO, the NHO and the local authorities in North Norway have said that this should be a dry dock that should also operate on a purely commercial basis. In other words, there will be a large share to be built for private purposes and operated by private means. In view of the fact that this is a two-way street, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Trade have invited the groups involved to meet in the Department on 2 May, not only in order to clarify what the State will contribute in terms of defence and preparedness, but also how the private part will be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e500	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was no answer to my question, which was valid when it was expected that a position was taken. It has been working on this matter for at least a few years. And it's okay to push it over to the private ones, but after all, the state's share and not least the SND's share of the loan capital has to be clarified. I understand clearly from the Swedish Council of State dialect that there is a certain refusal of decision regarding this matter. She would have preferred that it was in her home area it had been worked the most, but now the question is: When can you expect the government to take a stand on this matter? So even if there's going to be a meeting on May 2nd, the question is when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e509	Now I am not the Minister of Defence, and it is the Minister of Defence who deals with the emergency situation. In the case of SND, it is automatic in relation to what you go into and can be involved and contribute to on the private side. It's important that we don't now keep walking around the pike. We need to clarify what the private part is going to participate in, and then we have to discuss the part of society at the same time. You can't push all this over into society alone. It's an impossibility, because society shouldn't build private dry docks. It's to be done by the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e517	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e522	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Olaf Gedrem. Question 5, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Question 9, from Erik Dalheim to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister for Justice, will be raised by the representative Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e540	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘Revita is a maritime aid project for the unemployed, the unemployed and the establishment; primarily involuntary unemployed. They succeed in both getting people back to work, in education and in establishing their own business. The regulations for job creation projects prevent Revita from receiving grants for its user-focused concept. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend this rigid and inappropriate legislation so that this necessary and successful action can continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e549	Contributions to job creation projects are made from funds for labour market measures. As a starting point, the scheme is targeted at the groups of job-seekers for whom the labour market seat is responsible, after, for example: decisions of the Stortinget. The purpose of the scheme is to provide an offer to the registered unemployed and disabled persons who have an idea and who want to establish their own business. I do not think it unreasonable that we should impose a minimum requirement for the participation of the job-seekers to assist, in projects supported by labour market funds. The requirement is not higher than 50 pst. at least half of the participants must be registered as unemployed or disabled in order to qualify for a grant. Job creation projects would like to have and have other target groups as well as those coming from Aetat. I therefore find it reasonable that part of the financing of the operation of the projects is required to come from sources other than Aetat. Other public authorities may wish to purchase services from the projects, for example: municipalities as such will activate groups to assist, or individuals who are not unemployed but who want to try out a business idea and therefore will participate in a job creation project and pay for it. The fact that others find offers from job creation projects interesting and are willing to pay for their services ensures the quality of the projects. The representative Karin Andersen believes that the regulatory framework for job creation projects as such is rigid and inappropriate. I cannot agree with such an assessment, as my answer shows. I believe that today's regulation on grants for job creation projects is appropriate from the objectives and priorities of labour market policy. It also adds up to cooperation with others. Furthermore, I remind you that there are many other job creation projects than Revita. They are able to adapt activities within the framework of current legislation. I therefore do not want to make any changes to the regulation based on the application from Revita Drammen alone. On the other hand, I do not ignore the results of various experimental schemes, such as: The size has taken the initiative, because alternative use of the means of action may lead to regulatory changes if the tests prove successful. However, the assumption for grants must relate to the Aetate target groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e562	I thank you for the answer, but I must admit that I am far more disappointed than I expected to be. The Kosmo Council of State has called for the renewal of the public sector, to be able to look across sectoral borders and to have a user perspective, and even said in the newspaper a few days ago: 'The system is too rigid, and the forms determine where sound peasantry would be much better.' The question is whether there should be legislation and a sectoral approach that will prevent such measures that actually work and succeed, whether the legislation is more important than the target group and the people we are set to help. Governments signal in their response that, once some experimental schemes have been evaluated, changes in the rules may occur. I'll ask when in that case it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e569	First, we have to get started and try out the testing schemes after agreement between the labour market seat and, where appropriate, private or other interest groups that have an interest in participating in these trials. The condition then is that there are contracts. These will then be evaluated and, if appropriate, see whether these can be new measures to reach the target audiences to be addressed by the labour market, see whether they can be successful, and if so whether to open up the regulatory framework for alternative funding. In fact, I believe that we operate across the sector boundaries. In order to receive a grant, we do not impose higher requirements than that of at least 50 pst. of those who are to be in the job creation offer must be registered in the labour market seat. That means the top 50 pst. may come from outside. In fact, I believe that this is cross-sectoral, but I have to make demands when I'm going to spend the money that the Stortinget has put at the disposal of the Government for labour market measures and for the purpose of solving the problems for the target groups of the labour market, that I reach these target groups through the use of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e576	Now, the majority of the population is satisfied with the measure used as an example here, because it has actually succeeded in relation to the target groups with a much wider and much more cross-sectoral view than the Council of State now envisages. I may not be able to ask a new question, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there is a majority in the United Kingdom that is going to come forward with a proposal and ask the Council of State to make such a change of rules. While all these new measures and new attempts, which are very good, are being tested, some of the old ones who would have been very right and important to keep might die. Some of the political problem is that there is actually a majority in the United Kingdom who have wanted to maintain such measures, and that majority is going to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e581	In that case, I just have to take note of that. I hope, then, that when the Storting may make such a change in the rules, it will ensure that the means of action are aligned to such a level that it is possible to achieve this, and not give the Council of State a mandate to operate within the approved budgetary framework available. I assume you have an overview of the total cost of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e589	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Should the public sector innovation and efficiency process be successful, it is among other things. the need for strong cooperation across boundaries and across administrative levels. How will the Council of States ensure that this will really happen in practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e598	A strong welfare country is the basis for the Government’s commitment to the renewal of the public sector. If the values of the welfare state are to survive, we need to limit the growth of public expenditure and get more out of the resources we have available, both human and economic. Users must also feel that their needs are prioritised and cared for. The challenges affect the entire public sector and require a joint commitment across sectoral and administrative boundaries, which is a major challenge and is taken very seriously by the Government. Nine key reforms, as well as a series of internal affairs actions, will contribute together to the achievement of the objectives of the renewal work. The implementation of several reforms in the renewal process, e.g.: labour reform requires active cooperation between several departments and different sectors. Other reforms take place within each sector. Increasing use of ICT makes mutual information between establishments simpler than before and thus contributes to better coordination. A large conference at the beginning of January with the management of all departments focused on how to reconcile common forces in the renewal process. The Ministry of Labour and Administration regularly brings together the departments and state budgets for mutual information and exchange of experience in order to monitor and follow up the necessary coordination. The overall need for coordination in the renewal process is met by a separate government committee and, of course, by the Government itself in all important matters. A separate cooperation body between the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Municipal Councils of the High Administrative Level ensures ongoing coordination and cooperation between the State and the municipal sector. The municipal sector accounts for the largest share of public service provision, and it is therefore important that this cooperation works well. The ministries have instructed central government agencies to cooperate with the municipalities on the establishment of public service offices. The pilot project, with the establishment of public service offices in all Akershus municipalities, has already shown that this is being followed up. It is also considered that the coordination role of the county council in the renewal work should be strengthened regionally. I am aware that the need for better coordination between the levels of administration and the sectors is significant, including in the provision of unintended consequences in the municipalities of the renewal work. This will be central to further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e621	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that the Government is doing this important work well. After asking the question, we have also received the action plan for which the Department of the Council of State is responsible. What's really the main reason I asked the question is a local experience. When municipalities that have been in the forefront try to work together between state agencies and their own municipal offices, it can be an equation, it can be a post office, it can be a payman, it can be the labour market or the social security system, it is that the practical difficulties arise. Then the impression is that some state levels are behind watertight bulkheads. It is, as the Council of State also said, the needs of users that are important in relation to opening hours etc. So my main concern about asking this question is, what will happen locally to get this to? It is all right that you have the most important leadership, but it is the seventh and last time that the individual rapporteur, the individual chairmanship, is going to get things done, that the requirements are being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e628	It has to be done the way we're adding up. We adopt state guidelines on how the external agencies in the state are obliged to deal with the initiatives taken in the municipalities. Once these guidelines have been adopted and distributed, it shall not be possible for the individual external government agency to look only at itself and its own navel, but they shall have to take into account the overall coordination needs of that society. I know that there have been problems with this in the initial stages, but I am equally convinced that as the various agencies also see their own need for this coordination, it will be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e635	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel that you are on the right track in getting things done in practice in the municipalities. It is clear that with the setup that you now have, it is not who is responsible, the individual user is thinking about. He thinks about where he gets the service, and then both in relation to opening hours and things that have to be done. I myself was involved in this work in the Ministry of Local Affairs four years ago when we presented the previous district and regional communication. Already then the service offices were mentioned. There is now a new message on the same theme. Despite the fact that it was four years ago, some things might have been easier to do already, but I'm recording what's happening now. I record that the government is on the right track, and then you simply have to have a common starting point and a common hope that you will get this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e640	I just have to say that I think what's necessary to get this done is that you actually make central guidelines that are determined by the Government, and that all the agencies have to deal with these central guidelines. But they must then be so transparent that we have the necessary degree of flexibility, depending on the municipality in which to implement this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e645	We're now going to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e651	This question, from Erik Dalheim's representative to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e654	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘Paper based on the return of drinking cartons is currently a main product from Hurum Fabrikker AS. To succeed in the recycling of waste, the collection, production of new products and their sale must be seen as a whole. The state has its Green State project linked to this challenge. In this context, what is the status of state purchasing practices related to return-based paper products?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e663	Government acquisitions are a decentralised liability. That is to say, it is up to each enterprise to carry out its procurement processes in accordance with the applicable framework conditions. Thus, it is not the case that the State has established common procurement procedures in addition to those resulting from central framework agreements and existing legislation. The administrative service of the State has concluded such framework agreements with two suppliers that deliver paper made from return packaging. However, such paper forms a small part of the total take-off from the framework agreements. The reason is that such paper does not meet the requirements for record-keeping. Therefore, it is mainly used for printed matter which is not intended to have a lasting value. In addition, products are used as perers and separating sheets made of recycled paper. The country wishes to facilitate sustainable development and to contribute to the management of environmental concerns through public procurement as well as in other areas. Together with the Ministry of the Environment, we have initiated the Green State project, where the main theme is to find methods and measures that can reduce the environmental impact of state-owned enterprises. One of the elements of this project is to increase the proportion of packaging and paper products based on/layer of return pulp. The Green State project, which is a three-year project, is due to expire in 2001, and will then be evaluated. Another element is to seek to publish and distribute information electronically, thus reducing the use of paper as such. During 2001, we aim to develop a procurement policy for public acquisitions where one of the areas of activity will be to think anew to take account of the environment in purchasing activities. This shall be done in the framework of the applicable public procurement legislation. New public acquisition law, based on EU procurement directives and thus EEA-relevant, will enter into force on 1 July this year. Section 6 states that government bodies should take into account life-cycle costs and the environmental consequences of acquisition during the planning of individual acquisitions. This means assessing the environmental impact of the acquisition in the long term and making it possible to set requirements for the environmental quality of a product. The contracting authority must then demonstrate that the requirements imposed are required in order to achieve the expected environmental objectives it has set. The requirements must relate to the utility of the product and not to the production process as such. However, there is nothing wrong with setting requirements for the product that will also have consequences for the production process. The requirement must address the outcome of the production process. There may also be requirements for the supplier of the product to have a certification system for his products and environmental requirements relating to the supply, packaging, return arrangements and reuse of the product being acquired may be imposed. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, which is the regulatory manager in this area, is developing an Environmentally Conscious Acquisitions Guide adapted to the legislation in force on 1 July. The Ministry of Labour and Administration will seek to cooperate with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Environment and will focus on the opportunities to focus on environmental considerations when developing national procurement policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e689	I would like to thank the Council of State for a reassuring answer. The routines that are now being established seem very reassuring. What is a challenge related to this, which we record, among other things. In my district, of course, when companies build up skills related to producing, for example, papers of a desired quality, they are in a normal business situation dependent on obtaining a sales volume that does not cause the company to go bankrupt until good purchasing practices are in place, for example, in the state context. I would like to ask the Council of State whether, in such a context, there is also some contact with companies that can deliver satisfactory products, so that there is an interaction between the need for such companies to sell products – of course of satisfactory quality – in a perspective that is also adapted to the current year. What is the situation here is that during 2001, the aim is to develop a policy. I believe that there are also strategies linked to the fact that there are already purchasing systems in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e698	Of course, here we are open to debate, dialogue and discussion with individual companies, where individual companies can get information about both the current and future policies of the state in this area, so that they can make the necessary market adaptations to the future. However, what we cannot do is conclude supply agreements with the individual companies that would be contrary to the procurement rules of the State, which require competition based on the requirements of the product imposed by the State. That's why my approach is that we should continue to work on setting the environmental requirements that are necessary in order for us in the state to continue to lead the development of the green state, but also ensure that we have an open, healthy and good dialogue with the business community, while at the same time ensuring that the competitive concerns are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e705	There are no more questions from me, it was very reassuring what the council here says.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e710	Then there will be no further answers either. So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e716	This question, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Olaf Gedrem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e719	‘During the treatment of the power plant tax, particular attention was paid to cross-border installations in the field of taxation. According to the rapporteur in Hjelmeland, the municipality loses 5 million. tax dollars because the legislation cuts off the tax on property tax on power generation from Helmeland as a warehouse municipality. The council promised to follow up on this matter, but so far nothing has happened. When can the municipalities concerned expect clarification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e726	I am familiar with the problem the representative refers to. Hjelmeland municipality claims that if the municipal distribution of the final tax base for power plants had been based on the distribution rules of the tax law § 18-7, the municipality would have received higher property tax income from power plants in the fiscal year 2001 than the result of the municipal distribution rules adopted. After information from the municipality of Hjelmeland, it is according to the municipality's view of a difference in tax revenue of approximately 3.5 million. kr. The rules adopted for the simplification of the property tax base for cross-border power plants were based on the Ministry's proposal in Ot.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. In the submission of the proposal, several alternative distribution models were considered, including a possible breakdown by model used as a basis for the distribution of respectively. taxes on wealth, income and natural resources between municipalities with cross-border facilities. In the proposition, it was among other things. on the basis that these distribution rules do not have the necessary anchoring in the values that are taxable under the Property Tax Act § 4. Municipal distribution based on the rules of the Tax Act § 18-7 for property tax purposes would thus assume and entail a change in the object concept of the Property Tax Act. Furthermore, it was assumed that distribution under the tax law § 18-7 would also lead to redistribution effects between municipalities in relation to the previous system. In Ot.prp. No 1 However, it was stated that the aim is to reassess the scope of property tax in general and the municipal distribution rules for power plants in particular in the context of the forthcoming general revision of the Property Tax Act following the NOU 1996: 20, New Property Tax Act. In cooperation with the Tax Directorate, a major follow-up work has recently been undertaken in relation to the effects of the entry into force of the Property Tax Act § 8 for power plants. In particular, information on changes in property tax revenue, etc. shall be obtained. from all municipalities that have received a fixed property tax base on power plants for the fiscal year 2001. In this context, the Tax Directorate is also in the process of making a central and overall registration of the applicable municipal distribution keys established by the Tax Act § 18-7. The collection of this material will include, inter alia: provide the basis for an assessment of the effects of a possible transition to the use of the tax law § 18-7 as a rule of distribution. The above material is expected to be present only during the summer. I will only be able to make an assessment of the question of the possible conversion of the municipal distribution rules to the property tax base for power plants once that information has been obtained and the material has been evaluated in the department. Similarly, I will only then be able to assess whether there is a basis for possibly providing possible proposals for the conversion of the municipal distribution rules for power plants in relation to the forthcoming general revision of the Property Tax Act. Also options other than distribution under the tax law § 18-7 will be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e745	I thank you for the answer, which gives the openings to meet the intentions of the question. There are probably two levels — changes in rules and, where appropriate, compensations for a sudden loss of expected income. The municipality of Hjelmeland was in a difficult situation because it was impossible to take care of the loss of income, which, according to what was told to me and the department before, was 5 million. kr. For example, it would. for Oslo have the equivalent of approx. One billion, so the amount is large for a small municipality. It is not budgeted for such a cancellation. That is why it was positive when the Minister of Finance said in the debate in Odelstinget on 14 December that: ‘I will go carefully into and assess the results also for individual municipalities, and then I will make a summary and assess whether there is a basis for presenting to the Storting an assessment of such results. Let me ask for time to come back again." I would like to urge the Council of State to make rapid payments for the 5 to 10 municipalities, so that they do not get into a difficult budgetary situation due to a change in rules that are relatively blind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e757	The representative's supplementary questions confirm something that I was somewhat uncertain about, and that's that you have mixed two different things in the question. What is specifically asked about in the question is new municipal distribution rules for municipal cross-border power plants, which I also replied to, while the reference to amounts may indicate that you are thinking about the results of the changes by introducing property tax law § 8 from the current year. It is true that I have stated what the representative refers to in Odelstinget, but that is another question than what I specifically answered. With regard to the question of the individual municipality census, to which the representative referred in his supplementary question, and to which part of the question could also refer, I have said that we will follow closely. So let's do that. As I also pointed out in my answer, we will review the effects in all municipalities. We will have made that clear during the summer, but I am aiming to ensure that we can already make some assessments in connection with the revised national budget in relation to the material that we have so far been able to obtain. I hope I have given satisfactory answers to both possible interpretations of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e766	I admit that there are different facets in the attack on this situation, but the municipality feels that it is a matter, a loss of income. There are several solutions, as I said in my first supplementary question. I note that the Council of State is relatively positive about entering into such an assessment, and I would like to ask a new specific question: could there be a possibility that, in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget, the Council of State will take an assessment and may consider compensation for these five to ten municipalities that come out slightly lopsided and that are in a precarious situation and have expectations for the Council of State to review?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e776	I have to get back to the two elements of the question. As regards sections 18 to 7, which were specifically asked in the question, there is a major issue that is not directly related to the current issues of distribution. We'll get back to that, as I explained in my first answer. As regards the issue of the results of the introduction of Section 8 of the Property Tax Act by the individual municipalities, I intend to return to it in the revised national budget, as the representative asks. At the same time, I ask for an understanding that a comprehensive overview of the effects on all municipalities will not be available until the summer when we get all the material we have asked for. But I intend to come back with a review and discussion in the revised budget, which I believe will be satisfactory in relation to the needs of the representative here pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e786	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «The change of residence registration in the Folkeregister for students was promised in the autumn by the Ministry of Finance before Christmas. There is not yet a case for Stortinget about this. Why is it taking so long, and when can you expect amendments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e795	Int. S. No 4 for 2000-2001 the majority of the Committee of Finance expressed their desire to await the Ministry's assessment of the issue of increased freedom of choice with regard to student registration. At the same time, the Committee asked that the matter be brought to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate form during the autumn, as the representative also refers to. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to come back to Stortinget with this matter last autumn. The Ministry will present proposals for solutions in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e804	Then I will be allowed to ask the following additional questions: Is it that when you submit proposals in the revised national budget, this will lead to a change of residence registration so that you can influence the headcounting before the elections? One of the important points was just to get this done so that it could also affect the headcount of the next election. That's why there was a need to get it in the harvest, so that students, for example. be able to vote in favour of the county in which they are now actually registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e809	Let me first point out that this is a matter which could in principle have been decided by the ministry within the framework of regulations. However, on the basis of the interest the Stortinget has had in the matter, I have argued that it would be reasonable to give the Stortinget a briefing, so that the Stortinget could have the opportunity to express its views before the department takes its final decision. But I am therefore aiming for that to be presented to the Stortinget in the revised national budget, and then the further progress of the matter will naturally also depend on the treatment of the Stortinget. I'm taking with me the views that the representative here has. And then I want to show that we're coming back to the content of the revised budget, presented on 11 May, and I assume that the process of the Storting will be at the end of June. I'm going to go through the practical follow-up of it. Here, there are also questions about the pace of follow-up after the Storting treatment has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e816	With this timeframe, it will not be possible to influence the headcount registration for the current year, assuming that the headcount is now recorded at a date earlier than before the changes to the electoral law for a few years later. I have an additional question that goes on the content. Confusion was created when the Election Law Committee presented a completely new principle, namely to separate the number of persons from the place of residence. Is this a matter that the Council of State has considered, or will this be done entirely independently and based on the principles that were actually discussed by the Storting before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e823	I will base my assessment on what was discussed in Stortinget, and initially assume that man numbering and residence registration will be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e831	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e834	I allow myself to ask the Minister the following questions: «The daily manager of Lothe Byg AS in Sandnes has 34 years behind him in the construction industry. The State Building Technical Authority has recently rejected the application for central approval as a total supplier of industrial buildings ‘because of insufficient relevant practice in compensation for lack of education’. Over the last 13 years, he has had total responsibility for building land of 107 000 square meters. What experience does the Council of State have in this type of case in order to compensate for the lack of education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e843	The entity Lothe Bygg AS has received approval for the design area the representative Bent Höie addresses in his question. The question of whether the Executive Director should also have the approval of this specific subject area applies here. The Ministry has recently proposed regulatory changes aimed at clarifying that central approval is an enterprise authorisation and not an approval of individuals. In concrete terms, the changes are based on the overall competence of the professional management to be assessed, rather than individual professional managers, as at present. It must be assumed that this amendment will result in fewer complaints. Since the part of the decision relating to the Executive Director has been appealed against and is to be dealt with under the complaint procedure for the central authorisation system, I do not want to comment on this matter in particular, but pay attention to making some general considerations. The rules of the authorisation regulation are designed in such a way as to enable the emphasis to be placed on long-term professional practices. The usual thing is that reduced education can be compensated by longer-term practice. It should be possible to assess in specific long-term practice whether the training requirement can be waived. However, it should be borne in mind that, for the approval of responsible undertakings for works involving industrial buildings where the consequences of deficiencies are serious or the tasks are difficult, the general rule is that the professional manager should be able to refer to education at the level of engineering colleges and in addition to five to six years of relevant practice. For such construction works, it is important that the professional management of the undertaking has a minimum level of training in order to ensure a satisfactory construction process and a final result in line with the applicable regulatory requirements. Whether the circumstances in this case indicate that authorisation should be granted is now the subject of a complaint which is to be considered after a specific professional assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e856	I can also take a more general approach, because if this discount is properly justified, it's actually that one of these kind of assessments allows theoretical education to weight 90 pst., while this person's 30 years experience plus 13 years as manager of this company weighs 10 pst. Is this general weighting consistent with the Government’s view on the importance of real competence in this type of approvals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e861	Now, as I said in my first answer, in the case of industrial buildings where the consequences of deficiencies are serious and the tasks are difficult, the general rule is that the professional manager should be able to refer to education at the level of engineering colleges and in addition to five or six years of relevant practice. It has been seen that on such construction works it is important that the professional management of the undertaking has a minimum of training in order to ensure a safe construction process and a final result in line with the applicable regulatory requirements. As I said, whether the circumstances in this case indicate that authorisation should be granted is now subject to a complaint. I ask for an understanding that you should then leave the complaint subject to make this assessment before I go into this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e868	At least it must be possible to get an answer to how the Government assesses the emphasis between practice and education on this type of issue. Are you talking about a 50/50 or 60/40 distribution or, as in this case, 90/10? Lothe Båg AS is located in an area where there are many entrepreneurs that have established this type of enterprise, which can probably also be in the same situation. Will a person take any initiative in revising this law, so that people do not have to experience in a way a professional ban in an industry where they have been operating for almost a generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e875	In the first answer, I gave a clarification of the competence to be present in the individual company as a whole, and not disentangled for each individual professionally responsible. I also said that the usual thing is that reduced education can be compensated by longer-term practice, and that particularly long-term practice should be able to assess whether the requirement for education can be waived. It's in the bottom. This is to the extent a response to the main questions raised by the representative. But then, in relation to particularly complex constructions where the consequences of defects are serious, or where the tasks are difficult, there are somewhat more stringent requirements than in relation to constructions of a simpler nature. I ask for that understanding, and I also ask for understanding that there is a need to safeguard security and to respect the requirements of the authorities, which must be fundamental here. However, considerable flexibility has been provided in general in relation to the possibility of reducing training requirements in long-term practice. But, as I said, this is being practised somewhat more rigorously where the consequences of errors will be particularly great. When it comes to this specific matter, I again point out that it is for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e890	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘Television is an important premiscible in the political debate, but is not available to the 600 000 hearing impaired or deaf in the country. In Norway, few topicality programmes are written or interpreted, as compared to, for example, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Technological solutions have been developed by SINTEF to make it more accessible, but this has not been realised. What can the Council of State now do to ensure that television programmes become more accessible to deaf and hearing-impaired people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e899	I would like first briefly to say something about the offers that are available today. Anyone who can receive Text TV can also get about half of NRK's broadcasts. There are mostly only direct messages in news and news programmes that are not texted via Text-TV in the NRK. The technology used by Sweden and the United Kingdom also does not allow full captioning of direct mail. In addition, last autumn the NRK started with simultaneous deaf interpretation of television programmes. As far as I know, there are no other broadcasters who have such an offer. Satellite receiver equipment enables the interpretation of the NRK broadcasts between hours. 18 a.m. and a.m. 20, e.g. The replay of the day. Some cable companies have also started to communicate this interpretation channel. Hearing-impaired persons have also been explicitly taken into account in the public advertising-funded television concession. This requires the concessionaire to make the consignments available to the hearing impaired. The Ministry has repeatedly pointed out a lack of subtitles to TV 2. The SINTEF project to which the representative refers is a new method of subtitling which could refer to text and thus to text television programmes directly. The NRK is involved in the project. The NRK has recently informed the Ministry that this new text system will be delayed by one to two years due to technical problems. I had hoped and wished that the new text system would quickly enable hearing-impaired people to follow live events in the same way as the rest of the population. If public broadcasters do not improve their offer for hearing impaired persons, the law of such a duty may be assessed. However, such legislation must be the last resort and be linked to what is technically possible by e.g. subtitles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e912	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that, in relation to the topicality programmes, this will become more and more important, and it is clearly a democratic challenge when 600 000 people in this country have some major problems in following the broadcasts, which have gradually evolved to become very important in the democratic and political debate here at home, as I mentioned earlier. It may be possible to get a legal confirmation of this. I am so pleased that the Sintef project has not been fully iced up, but that it is still expressed that it is possible to establish technological solutions that allow a textual system. Can the Council of State say a little more about how she sees that the other channels, not only the NRK, but also TV 2 and any others, can be required to text the television programs for hearing impaired and deaf?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e921	I have said in connection with the announcement of the new TV concession that it is a clear concession requirement that it should be texted for hearing impaired people. I think we need to focus on getting NRK operational, that is. properly on the road, in this context. It will also have consequences for other television channels. I will express to the NRK as strongly as I can that if there is no significant improvement by the end of the year, a law order will become a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e926	I am very pleased with what the Council of State here signals, and I would like to call for this close political follow-up and for this, which is an example of democratic 'deficit', to be well taken care of in the future by the political decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e931	The advantage of a statutory obligation for public broadcasters to text and interpret television programmes for hearing impaired persons is that there is a standard for the expectations of the public broadcasters. This, I believe, will be of great benefit to hearing impaired people, and there is every reason to be concerned that such a large group of the population has a limited range of services through public broadcasters. So I'll do what I can to contribute to a quick improvement in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e939	‘Last year, there was a record number of drug deaths in Rogaland. Negative developments continue, not least the situation in North Rogaland is dramatic. In such a situation, the public offer should be stepped up sharply, instead reducing State aid to important measures. How can the State contribute to an offensive against drug abuse in Rogaland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e946	The representative of Kvassheim addresses a very important topic. The State Institute for Drug Research has estimated that the number of drug users with an intravenous abuse pattern has doubled over the 1990s and that there are now between 9 000 and 12 000 people injecting drugs on a regular basis in Norway. We know that there is a high risk of death with such an abuse pattern. We have also seen that the number of overdose deaths reached a preliminary peak in 2000 with 327 deaths. This is undoubtedly an alarming development. There is agreement that we need to do what we can to prevent drug users from dying of overdoses and other drugrelated deaths. However, experience shows that there are no simple measures that can solve a problem as serious as what we are facing. I have noticed the increase in the number of drugrelated deaths in Rogaland. The situation there and elsewhere requires active action locally and centrally. We need to carefully evaluate how we organise efforts, and we need to ask ourselves if we are using the total resources in the drug field to get the best effect. The government provided a significant increase in the free income of municipalities in the 2001 budget. As I see it, it's the municipalities themselves who know the problems of the body, and it's the municipalities that will be the best ones to find concrete solutions. That will also be the case in Rogaland. With regard to state contributions, as the representative of Kvassheim calls for, we have already launched a number of measures to improve the situation of the most serious addicts and limit the number of overdose deaths. In the revised national budget, I will explain how we are now facilitating the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation to more people who need it. We have established low-level health interventions for drug users in several places in the country, two of which are in Rogaland — in Haugesund and Stavanger. The aim of these measures is precisely to reduce the number of drugrelated deaths. The measures shall include, inter alia: provide drug users with information on how to avoid overdose. As I know it is absolutely necessary that the health care system plays a much greater role in this group of heavy addicts. In the current action plan for the first line of social services, ‘Knowledge and bridal construction’, active development of competences in the work with drug addicts is being pursued. Stavanger is also part of the housing project of the Ministry and the House Bank and receives grants for housing measures for young people aged 18-20 years with low housing capacity. This is an important project for drug users. The Ministry is now working on a separate action plan on drug problems. The main themes of the action plan will be the prevention of drug use and the strengthening of the provision of housing, treatment and care for the most deprived, especially those with complex needs. A coordinated assistance effort between local and state authorities is a prerequisite for improving the success of these difficult problems. The transition from prison appears to be a risk situation for overdoses, which may be considered in this context. In the context of the action plan, the Ministry will examine the issue of injection rooms, and I can assure you that all aspects of such an action will be addressed. As a result of the reform of the state takeover of specialist health services, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will, during 2001, issue a future model for the care of drug users. A proposal is planned to be submitted for consultation during the autumn of 2001. The Ministry intends to ensure that any changes in the organisation will enter into force from 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e963	I would like to thank the Minister of Social Affairs for the answer, which contained a lot of importance, and much that I agree with. The need for coordination of local and central efforts is underlined, and because time is limited, I focus on it in the follow-up issue. Despite increasing problems in Rogaland, we are now experiencing a current debate on cut in an offer in Haugesund, with which the Council of State is well aware, an offer that a local says is of great importance to the most stressed drug addicts in the city, and Haugesund is one of the cities in our country that have the most problems. This cut in State aid may lead to the closure of the offer less than one year after its start-up. Is the Council willing to re-examine this, precisely in the light of the opportunities opened up when a local and central interoperability is positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e970	The project that has not received the appropriations you wanted from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I have not received any contact from yet, either from them or from the municipality of Haugesund. I am nevertheless informed by the press about this. I have noticed that despite the fact that this is certainly a useful project, the municipality of Haugesund has not increased its contribution to this in the current year. They granted NOK 100 000 in 2000, and have also granted NOK 100 000 this year, while the project applied to the department for SEK 1 million. kr. I noticed that. But what I'm going to do is contact Haugesund and Stavanger municipalities and Rogaland county councils, where public responsibility lies, and discuss with them how best to meet just the challenges they face, by the fact that opiate abuse has now taken such a form as it has now done, and that we see an increase in overdose deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e977	With regard to the specific offer in Haugesund, the Ministry has rejected an application. A new enquiry has now been sent in the department. When the municipality of Haugesund has given its allocation, it was in a kind of understanding that there was a three-year trial project, where the various actors were to continue their commitment. I would like to ask the Council of State to help this project continue. I record that the state council at a youth party in Oslo could draw up a check of 1 million. kr from the rear pocket, and that certainly made sense. I hope that there can be similar creativity in order to make a state contribution to the project in Haugesund this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e982	I'm very proud to have found the money to prevent the new drugs, ecstacy and so on, and I expect the Left also to agree that we should be involved in prevention in that field. With regard to health measures and care measures in relation to the very worst abusers, which in a way is on a completely different scale, I am very concerned that this is a public responsibility – it is a municipal responsibility, it is a county responsibility, it is a state responsibility. Therefore, I will do as I said in my previous answer, contact the municipalities and county council that are responsible for this matter, and see how we can handle the problems in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e993	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the national transport plan, the government has set up an annual road traffic growth of 1,3 pst. from 2002, which is significantly lower than the actual traffic increase. Transport users expect a significantly higher traffic growth than the Government, which will increase congestion from the current level. How will the Government meet the zero vision with such a starting point?’ I'll make it clear that it's going to be 1.4 pst. and not 1.3 p.p., as it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1004	The vision of no fatal or life-long damage is at the root of the government’s long-term road safety work – it remains firm. The vision does not depend on the level of traffic forecasts. As outlined in the National Transport Plan, the Government will give the highest priority to road safety work and a number of relevant new measures have been identified. However, there is uncertainty in the estimates of the number of fatalities in traffic. In particular, uncertainties relate to the impact of actions related to driver training and driving licence dot load – measures that have not yet been found to be definitive. In addition, the effects of any increased police control during the period have not been calculated. The government will closely monitor developments in accident rates and the actions taken during the planning period to assess and keep track of whether this will lead us in the right direction in relation to the long-term vision of no fatal or life-long damage to traffic and, if necessary, assess new measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1011	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Road Traffic Information Council stated that the traffic growth in September was 1.7 p.m., in January 2.1 p.m. and in February 1.9 pst. in relation to the same month of the previous year. Freight traffic on the road was approx. 18 000 million tonnes/km in 1999. The Joint Organisation's forecast for transport users based on the 1990s increase shows that it will grow to 26 000 million tonnes/km, against the Government's forecast of 20 000 million tonnes/km, i.e. a dramatic increase. This shows that the government's traffic forecasts for growth are unrealistic. The imbalance between road standard and traffic load will deteriorate with this, and then I do not understand that the government is not taking inward that the forecast they are working on is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1018	Firstly, the representative Mr Brunæs refers to a relatively short period of time. In addition, the traffic forecasts used in the national transport plan are not any government sitting in the back room and boiling together. You use the best available expertise. We've done that, and we'll still do that. But the representative Brunæs' question did not focus on realism in the prognosis, it was on how we would deal with this in relation to the zero vision. Then it's like getting a higher traffic growth than what we've been thinking about, it tells us that we need to further intensify our efforts towards zero vision, more collective transport, more goods at sea and on the track, more measures on the behaviour side, and I expect Right-wing support for even more important behavioral regulatory measures if traffic growth turns out to be higher than what we've assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1025	I can assure the Council of State that we will support any attempt and action to improve road safety, but the underlying reason is the volume of traffic on the roads. That's from the accident. That's how it goes. In the last long-term, 1993-97, the Government’s traffic growth forecast was 0.8 pst. per 1 % years on national average, but it grew three times as large. These are the realities. Of course, all the world's actions can be good, but if the plans that underlie what to do, because the standard ways are to have, are completely unrealistic, then I have no faith in the Government's visions. We're going to be involved in fulfilling the visions, we think they're excellent, but then the material we're building on must be realistic, and I hope that the Council of State can be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1032	I repeat what I said instead, that this is not something the government sits in the back room and boils down, we use the available expertise, and I expect that the representative Brunæs and Right also have the sense that we are just starting from the expert's assessments. So also expertise can be wrong, and then it's important that we can review and review what we're going to do. There are, among other things: this with physical measures important but also behavioural regulatory measures. I note what the representative Mr Brunæs said, that we will receive support for all measures that can improve road safety. Then I have to be allowed to say that Document No. The 8th proposal to go back to the old per mille limit comes in a somewhat strange light, compared to the short-term – but still – experience we are sitting on, has shown that there has been a measure that has given a positive effect, namely that fewer are running in the affected state. It's an element. I'm not saying that's all, but that's one element. And typical of this is that there are a lot of measures that have to work together, both the physical and the behavioural conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1042	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: «Water lake, which is a drinking water source for 50,000 people in the Mosse region, has poor water quality due to emissions from, among other things, agriculture and households without sewerage. The North Sea Declarations require Norway to reduce anthropogenic emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus by 50 pst. between 1985 and 1995. Nevertheless, the farmers are still large polluters, and sewage treatment is missing. What will the Council of State do to enable Lake Van to continue to act as a source of drinking water?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1051	It is important to work to improve the poor water quality in Lake Van. The water supply as it works from Vansjø Waterworks today is satisfactory due to the water treatment, but there is a risk that the situation is developing in the wrong direction. The two main sources of nutrient inputs to Lake Van are waste water and agricultural activities related to the watercourses draining to Lake Van. Several measures have been implemented, both in the sewerage and agricultural sectors, to improve water quality. The County of Eastfold has made strict demands on municipalities regarding the large emissions from sewerage. The County of Oslo and Akershus have made demands for high-grade cleaning at agglomerations upstream of Akershus County. Thus, the current national waste management requirements have been largely complied with. On the agricultural side, particular attention has been paid to targeting instruments such as the transition to spring ploughing, the use of catch crops, the construction of catch ponds and the use of vegetation zones to reduce nutrient salt emissions from this sector. However, water lakes and associated river basins also receive sewage from single dwellings and cabins not connected to the municipal sewerage network and of varying quality of their sewage treatment plants. The municipality is the pollution authority for such plants, which have emissions from less than 1000 persons units. The municipalities concerned and the agricultural authorities responsible for the quality of water in Vansjö and the relevant instruments must implement the necessary measures. There's a lot of positive community will to do this. Not least, this is reflected in the ongoing MORSA project, which includes an active investment in both agriculture and spillage. This is an important work, and I have therefore agreed to visit the project and carry out an inspection before the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that she wants to visit the MORSA project, but it must not be put under her chair that for many years it has been a theme of the county in Eastfold, and this with traps and the receiving of grants for not plowing etc., which has been in the hands of the farmers, has not produced results. And Lake Van is about to be destroyed as a source of drinking water. It does not conceal the experts, so something should be done relatively quickly. When the Council of State visits the region and goes through this, I expect her to be realistic. If she sees that there's just a lot of pretense and cosmetics, and that it doesn't matter particularly in practice, she should consider other instruments than this. And if she gets materialized that what's done, in close proximity is sufficient, what can she do based on the experience she has, among other things. with other sources of drinking water, will the Mosse region be properly watered?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1080	I am very interested in how we can improve water quality in this area and in some other areas where there is also a need for it in our country. I see that the way to go is the work that the municipalities do, and still work on the agricultural sector, and it's about how the different authorities can merge. I am interested in this area, including: in the light of the good cooperation projects established, and I would like to look at them in order to see how they can be even better impacted from the actions in progress and how they can be strengthened. But I think it's important to build on what's going on from those responsible that we know could lead to results in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1087	It sounds good, but something has to be done about Lake Van, because there is an irreversible situation in which an internal fertilisation mechanism ensures an increase in the amount of nitrogen and phosphorus in the lake. Therefore, we cannot allow it to last for 10 to 15 years until concrete and significant improvements are made to nitrogen and phosphorus. After all, farmers have had grant schemes, as the Council of State said, to build prisoner dams, grants to avoid plowing and other things. And if this thing that is now in the hands of agriculture and the municipalities doesn't work, won't she have a rice behind the mirror to make sure that something can now be done in practice, which really means something to over 50,000 people in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1094	First of all, I see that we have achieved results in terms of improved drinking water in many places in the country precisely because of the measures that have been taken on the agricultural side, so I still see that we have a potential to achieve more in relation to Lake Van. Otherwise, I also attach great importance to the fact that we have come a great deal further on a country-by-country basis when it comes to the purification of phosphorus. We have something left in terms of nitrogen, in relation to our international commitments also in this area that we take deeply seriously, but I see at all events the possibility that we should move forward in this work, based on the means we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1104	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Narvik Hafenvesen has engaged Novatek A/S diving company to inspect the leakages from the wreck of ‘Erich Giese’. The inspection shows significant leakages and risks of major instantaneous oil spills. Copy of video film has been transmitted to the department. On Saturday 14 April 2001, the police had to move out after the registration of a larger oil flake likely to come from the leakage of ‘Erich Giese’. Will the Council of State ensure that ‘Erich Giese’ is emptied before an oil disaster is a fact?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1113	‘Erich Giese’ is one of four wrecks at Narvik port which was thoroughly examined in the summer of 1999 under the control of the State Pollution Control Authority. The three other wrecks examined were ‘Neuenfels’, ‘Hermann Konne’ and ‘Georg Thiele’. All the wrecks are from the war. The studies showed that the three latter do not contain significant quantities of oil. ‘Erich Giese’, on the other hand, contains approx. 300 m3 oil divided into 26 tanks. "Erich Giese" is a hunter, and the individual tanks are small. Volumes vary from 8 m3 up to 25 m3. State pollution control therefore points out that any collapse of individual tanks with subsequent outflows will result in a limited volume of emissions. For a long time, there have been observed drop-boxes from several points on the wreck of ‘Erich Giese’. The recent documentation provided by Narvik Hafenveve also shows this. In general, the wreck will be weakened over time, with progressive droplets of oil. However, the likelihood that the entire wreck collapses, with subsequent major emissions from several tanks simultaneously, is considered to be low. The oil found in the wreck is a mixture of heavy oil and diesel. The incorporation of diesel means that the oil is relatively light and a large proportion of potential emissions will dissolve and evaporate from the surface relatively quickly. At the same time, preparedness in the area has been specifically strengthened by state resources through the so-called ‘Warning Plan Narvik’. Preparedness is regularly exercised with the assistance of State pollution control, precisely in view of possible discharges from the Narvik area. As I have previously informed the Stortinget, the wrecks of «Boardale» in Borre in Westfold and «Holmengraa» in the West Column were examined in 2000. These studies showed that only ‘Boarddale’ contained significant oil. All of the six wrecks with the highest pollution potential assumed along the Norwegian coast have now been thoroughly investigated. I have wanted to see all six wrecks at a time, as the discharge of shipwreck is technically very complicated and very expensive operations. State pollution control will make a recommendation before the summer based on the studies on what should be done with the oil on board of ‘Erich Giese’ and ‘Boardale’. On the basis of that recommendation from the State pollution authority, I will then decide what measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1124	I thank you for your answer. It becomes clear that you don't intend to do anything at this point. You're still going to look at what's going on. I have addressed this twice before, and nothing has happened, either from this Environment Minister or the previous one. It seems to me that the government is more concerned about finding new environmental taxes and cleaning up environmental problems in other countries than cleaning up its own backyard. After I submitted the question, there has been an oil leak again in Narvik. In today's future, it says: ‘On Monday, an oily lomvi was found in the sea outside the Fornosodden. The bird was raised from the sea, but died after a time." Furthermore, it says ‘that there was a hundred meters long oil flake on the sea’. In other words, it's the second release in a short time. So during the nesting period, there's oil, birds die in this period, but you don't do anything – you wait for new reports. It's urgent to do something now. I find it very regrettable that we have to wait for new investigations. Now, since the beginning of the 1990s, what should be done has been explored again and again. You know about the oil spills, but you don't do anything. Obviously, you are waiting for the disaster to be a fact. I wonder where the limit goes for a disaster, when birds are killed by oil spills and you have a hundred meters of oil flakes inside Narvik harbor, where we know that it comes in herring hours followed by claws. Is it a disaster if these get into the oil spill and die of it? Or is there something you can accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1142	We've focused heavily on the whole situation in this area around Narvik, as I said, and closely follow with regard to whether there should be oil spills that could threaten the environment in the area. We have a good job going on in that way. When the representative Svendsen refers to investigations and similar answers, it may be related to the fact that the questions get so close that they are the same investigations I refer to on some occasions. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that these are very complicated and costly operations, where it is absolutely essential that we know what we're doing before we start. We also now have several other operations involving the removal of wrecks – very costly, difficult operations – linked to the ‘Green Ålesund’ down in Haugesund and later this year also wrecked the ‘Boiky’ in North Norway. I think the environment is worth taking the necessary steps according to the risk of the individual wrecks, and that's the line I'm going to follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1153	It is not very reassuring to hear that you are saying that you are following closely. So here in Easter there was an oil flake over 100 meters long, and on Monday, two days ago, there was a new oil flake in which a seabird dies from oil damage. And then you say that the environment is good for you to follow along. But the environment doesn't deserve to be followed, the environment deserves to be done when the problems arise. I'm very interested in knowing how close a disaster you're going to be before the Ministry of the Environment does something. It is also said here that it is very costly. I think it's too expensive to do anything. You don't have money to do this in today's Norway, with oil billions on the book. In other words, you accept bird deaths and fish deaths in the area without lifting a finger to do anything. Is that a correct view?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1162	I share the representative's commitment to the environmental hazards along our coast. However, usually it is the representative Svendsen who tends to remind me of the need for cost-effectiveness in environmental policy. It's very important to take into account the important work we're talking about, so that we use the resources we have, in the best possible way. So we're in the situation of dripping oil from this ship. It's mostly light oil, and we get professional assessments from the State pollution authorities every day and will make sure that we don't get any surprises on the environment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1172	This question, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1175	‘The Council of State expresses to the media its concern about the high fees of lawyers and in this respect suggests measures to increase competition between lawyers. At the same time, the Government introduces 24 pst. VAT on legal services from 1 July 2001. How does the Council of State explain the context of these proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1182	When Stortinget decided to reflect the general rule of value added tax on services, legal services were one of a wide range of services that were considered excluded. There were then no compelling reasons to make an exception. And it is therefore right, as the representative Burnde indirectly says, that services that are expensive even without VAT are becoming more expensive with VAT. The legal aid scheme is the most effective instrument to support those who need it the most. In order to compensate for VAT, the income limits for free legal aid are substantially increased from 1 July, so that many more will be entitled to free legal aid. At the same time, it has been decided not to calculate the proportion of VAT for those who receive free legal aid. So they don't want to label the price increase at all. For individuals who are not eligible for the costs of the public aid scheme, VAT will not be the largest expenditure item, but the price at which it is calculated. It experiences many as high. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that the public must have access to good and reasonable legal services. I am therefore working on the possibilities of putting down a sample to look at measures to ensure this. It will be natural to look at, among other things. the proper functioning of competition in the law market, whether or not something can be done to make it easier for individuals to inform themselves in the law market, whether or not access should be extended for persons other than lawyers to provide legal services, and whether or not they can contribute to the organisation of the legal services so that they can, to a greater extent than at present, meet the needs of ordinary people for simple legal services, both better and cheaper. So it's not like you can just have one thought in your head at a time, you can say the opposite. The introduction of VAT on legal services makes the need even greater to see what can be done to ensure that the basic price – which is actually the largest element in the price paid by a user of legal services – is the lowest possible. So even if I accept the VAT reform, it's not like I'm not interested in people's legal security and I want to work for better availability and cheaper law services for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1195	I fully agree with the Minister of Justice when she says that legal services are often expensive today, and that it is a high threshold for ordinary people to use legal services. Both in divorce and in other contexts, it is terribly expensive. But if the Minister of Justice believes that the services are already expensive, there must be a lack of logic when she at the same time believes that it makes sense that they should be 24 pst. more expensive. The point is that with the VAT reform for which the government, along with the central parties, has obtained a majority in the Stortinget, it is far more expensive for ordinary people to use legal services. Businesses are not allowed to do so, because they have a VAT account so that they can deduct it. But what the Minister of Justice says is that she will now work to look at the possibilities of creating a sample to look at this. It's very obligating – to drop a sample when you have nothing else to do! So, doesn't the Minister of Justice see the lack of logic in doing it more expensive than it already is, when it's already too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1204	To take the last one first, I agree that that formulation was not quite lucky. The reason I said that we would look at the ‘possibilities to set down a sample’ is that we have not finally decided in what form this work is going to take. That's why I wouldn't say "put down a sample" right now, because the exact shape of that is something we're working on. But that work has to be started, and that there has to be work to find measures that are sensible and can work, is not something we can just take out of the hat. If we could have done that, we would have done it a long time ago. As far as the second theme is concerned, whether there is a lack of logic, the value added tax makes what you buy more expensive, no matter how you turn it around. The whole of the VAT reform is based on the principle of non-discrimination between the use of VAT on both goods and services, because in many areas there has been no discrimination between different types of services and goods. There are many necessary and important goods and services that are currently subject to VAT, and there are many other services than legal services that are subject to VAT. This is one of many ways in which the state provides income to ensure income for the welfare community, and that is the basic reason for the VAT reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1211	Now the VAT system was pointless from before, and it doesn't make any less sense when you get half the VAT on coke and potato gold from 1 July and 24 pst. VAT on training hours. But it's now – leave it alone. It's not a theme here. I have to say that I had actually expected that with Hanne Harlem as Minister of Justice we would get a fresh breath into the Ministry of Justice. But I'm glad that the Council of State takes self-criticism into account the most bureaucratic formulation I've heard for a long time – that one should work to look at the possibilities of reducing a sample. Usually, at least you have enough power to reduce a sample if the case is difficult enough. The point here is that it's an action you're after. So it's going to be 24 pst. more expensive to use a lawyer from the summer. In particular, those who are weak are affected, and even if the income limits for those who receive free legal aid should also be adjusted, the rates are already very low. The point is that from 1 July, those who use law enforcement services will – and that is in a difficult situation many people need them, for example. in the case of divorce and difficult family relationships, or in the case of property e.g. which insurance companies do not cover – had to pay 250-300 million. kr more. It's going to be 24 pst. more expensive, and there may already be under-use of some of these services. So the Minister of Justice said that she might look at the possibility of reducing a sample. It's very little actionable. Can't the Minister of Justice now say that she wants to go back to the Minister of Finance, look at the effects of the increased VAT on legal services and come up with something more firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1220	I have already taken self-criticism that that wording was too bureaucratic, but I understand the representative Burnde's need to rub it in with salt and sugar – or what I'm going to call it. I do not intend to go back and say that we should not introduce the VAT reform on legal services. That's what the Storting has decided, and I'm dealing with that. We've decided to increase the income limit for free legal aid, and that actually means that something like 20-30 pst. the population falls below these income limits. We increase them very strongly, so that if you first have income below the limit, you will get free legal aid and get away from the effect of the VAT reform on legal services. This is actually protecting the weakest. Then I acknowledge that there are other groups in addition to what may also be interested in cheaper legal services. That's what I'm busy doing, for example. to look at the law firm. I think it's a lot to pick up there, but then we have to find the good tools. That's why I'm doing a job for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1232	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «Inside. S. No 246 for 1998-1999, the Committee stated: 'The Committee believes that the training of elephants with a view to sub-competence needs to be strongly strengthened in the labour market.' The level of competence of apprentices must be defined. The guidance on special training states: ‘The individual training plan shall be drawn up on the basis of a realistic assessment of the apprentice’s potential and not according to the needs of the enterprise.’ Does this mean that the Ministry places less emphasis on professional competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1241	The size was predictable and courageous when it adopted the system of sub-competence and training as apprentices. The schemes have been implemented, and we receive feedback that an increasing number of students with such training needs are being trained as apprentices. At the same time, the size has adopted a training law conferring rights on individuals. Therefore, training should be primarily adapted to individual assumptions, abilities and motivations. Secondly, all vocational training shall be aimed at giving business the skills they need. This also applies to sub-competence vocational training. It also clarified the opinion of the Innst Committee. S. No 246 for 1998-99: ‘The Committee recalls that everyone with a right to education should receive an offer which corresponds as closely as possible to the individual’s abilities, abilities and motivation and which, in addition, provides a documented competence.’ Further training is adapted to the labour market's requirements for competence, inter alia: by: training councils and industries are strongly involved in developing new curricula for the subjects, thus largely designed to respond to the needs of the labour market in the local authorities to some extent to adapt the structure of supply to the labour needs of the region to the objectives of the curriculum in such a way that training meets the needs of the local business community; I don't see any contradiction in this. Apprentices shall have a training offer adapted to individual assumptions, abilities and motivation, while at the same time addressing the labour needs of the local business community. That training is being given to the student group today. The representative of Rikvam quotes the scheme for the few of this group of students who receive training against sub-competence as special education after a single decision. For these students are fighting. 5 of the Training Act specific requirements for individual adaptation, both in the training situation and in the company. The normal arrangements are custom-made training.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1267	First, I would like to thank you for your answer. I very much agree with the Council of State that the Stortinget was foresaw when we adopted the arrangement with apprentices. It's important, if we're going to make this system work, that those who sign a learning contract get the skills. And it's important that this system works, because this is part of the decoration of higher education. We have those who are going to be able to study, we have, of course, the arrangements with those who are going to a letter, and then we have this new order for those who are not able to plan for a letter. They shall be able to use the four-year period to acquire a different competence. And then it's very important, if we're going to make the system work well, that the rivers that choose this know that they get a competence that business needs and when they're done with education. That's why I'm a little worried when someone doesn't stress this in the instructions as clearly as I would like. Because we have a problem marketing the system and making it work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1276	It's very important that we clearly distinguish the different groups that we're talking about here. It is clear that, in the case of ordinary apprentices, it is important that the training offered to them is adjusted not only according to the individual's assumptions and abilities, but also in relation to the labour needs we have in the various sectors. Then we have a special group that, after a single decision, receives training for a partial competence, for special reasons of the individual. Here is what we say that the individual training plan needs to be drawn up on the basis of a realistic assessment of the potential of the apprentice. In these individual decision-making cases, we must not allow the needs of the enterprise or the requirements of the sector to destroy the possibility of offering an adapted offer to those who, for some reason, do not enter the regular training course in different disciplines. I believe that such a system ensures both the objective of good professional competence, good training against the requirements, needs and expectations of the different professions, and also that we meet the specific needs of special student groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1285	I agree with what the Council of State says. However, we should be aware that the students who will receive a training plan after a single decision will also have a competence. It is very important that these training plans are designed and developed in such a way that when these students have completed their training after four years, they have a competence such as that of the labour market. That's the goal, at least part of the goal. It is often these students who have the biggest problem getting a job when they finish their education. For this reason, it is also important that we stress for this group that education should be targeted in relation to the skills required by the labour market. So, in general, I also want to stress that the system of apprentices, at least as I have been informed, does not work well enough. It is a little too poorly known, and it is important that the Council of State now also market the scheme better than it is, that the Ministry makes it clear to the county councils that there is a new offer here, here we should be able to choose a different training offer than that which goes against professional letters or against study competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1292	I do not believe that the representative Mr Rikvam and I disagree at all, I think we fully agree on the need to adapt to the needs of the sectors and professions. And of course, it must also be that you have a conscious thought around it that those who receive an offer from a single decision should not only have an offer adapted to the period they are in training, but that as far as possible you should facilitate that, after completing training, they can also, with a partial competence, be useful to an enterprise/workplace, so that they can move on to work. For it must be the aim of being able to obtain, through the type of training which leads not to a full professional letter but leads to a partial competence, the results of their own work. You have to look at the relationship between what you do in training and the benefits you can get from that person when he comes out, that person is able to get out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1300	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The purpose paragraph of the primary school states: ‘The primary school shall, in cooperation and understanding with the home, assist in providing pupils...’. A NOVA report on cooperation between home and school shows that parents have little influence on school activities. What will the Council of State do to improve cooperation between home and school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1309	Cooperation guidelines are laid down by law, regulation or administrative action, including the curriculum. The L97 School of Education Plan states: ‘Parents/trainees have the primary responsibility for the provision of their own children and must therefore have co-responsibility in the school.’ It is emphasised that the home needs good information, and it states: ‘It should be facilitated that parents/trainees can be actively involved in the development of the school, but with a degree and in a way that is affordable in the case of activities and activities.’ Municipalities are responsible for facilitating compliance of primary school activities with the curriculum. The organisation of good school-home cooperation is primarily a responsibility for each school. The Parental Committee of Primary School, FUG, is carrying out the project Development of home school cooperation in the period 1999-2002. The project takes place in two counties and eight municipalities and is funded by the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. The questionnaire survey on which the NOVA report is based is part of this project. The study is sought, inter alia: to give a picture of the direct cooperation between each parent and the school. It shows that the majority of parents are mainly satisfied with information on education and the school development of children. At the same time, a majority of parents express that they rarely or never discuss or discuss the teaching with their teachers, and that they do not have participation in the teaching. Nevertheless, there is a clear link between school information and the experience of discussion and participation. Those who are satisfied with the information experience greater participation. In classes where parents know each other well, parents are more satisfied with the cooperation with the school. The survey was carried out in the school year 1999–2000 as a survey of the basis for further work in the project. As a general task, the learning centre has been given a responsibility to further develop cooperation between school and home at national level. I will continue the project Development of home school cooperation through the Learning Centre. I would like to encourage good experience from the development work to be made well known, so that schools throughout the country can get help in their own work developing cooperation between home and school. In 2001, the Educational Centre, in cooperation with the FUG, will assist the Ministry in drawing up brochures for parents on the rights of pupils and parents in relation to the school. The Ministry also supports a project to strengthen cooperation between home and school in teacher training. I want to continue that project. The Ministry’s strategy for quality development in primary schools 2000–2003 highlights the need for municipalities to provide good information to parents and the community on quality development work. In 2001, the government’s education offices were required to cooperate with the FUG on home school cooperation. School-home cooperation is important. I will contribute to the follow-up of the Education Centre and the State Education Offices. The work carried out shall be continued and further developed. I would also like to continue working with the FUG.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1328	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It seems reassuring that things happen, and that he follows closely, because the NOVA report shows that cooperation between home and school is often poor, and it is often worse as older students become. Young people are therefore particularly vulnerable, and this is happening at a stage where it is very important for school and parents to stand together. Targeted quality development work is important at all levels, so that parents can participate in and develop a high-quality school. I agree that FUG is central to this work. I am not going to take the debate on the insolence here, which shows that the Council of State has little understanding of the wishes of its parents. But the last debate we had on the full-day school shows that FUG has not been in the picture either, and the Council of State has received a letter criticising him for this. So my question is, how does he want to make sure that FUG can get into the processes of new school development at an earlier stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1335	I underlined in my first answer that we want to have a close cooperation with FUG, that we want to have a close cooperation with the parents and to facilitate that parents can contribute to the design of the school, and I am pleased that the representative Scarbøvik in this way felt it was reassuring. With regard to the specific case of an experimental agreement with the teachers for the reorganization of the school in different ways, it is not an obligation for the individual municipality to do so; it is an opportunity for the individual municipality. We've only reached an agreement with the teachers where we get more flexibility, where we get more opportunity for diversity, where we get more opportunity for variation and development in individual schools, but we haven't ordered any school to implement any of those measures. On the contrary, it will be the individual school, in close cooperation with parents and students, who have to design how they want to do this. And that's where the parents have to get into the picture. We're not going to sit centrally, neither the Minister of Education nor the FUG, and we're going to restrict or impose on how this is to be done. The individual parent, the individual student, the individual teacher and principal of each school and municipality must be involved in designing, and that is where parental influence is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1342	The reassuring thing is the big and fine words, but what I'm asking for is how it's followed up in practice. Formally, parents have influence in school, but it depends on parents wanting to get involved. The Christian People's Party wants stronger and qualitative better cooperation between home and school, because the primary responsibility for the assignment lies with the parents, and the school must be seen in the light of the parental mandate and parental law. A new stakeholder organisation called Active Parents has now been set up, precisely because of the frustration of not reaching out and which will be a support device for the FAUs around the municipalities and schools. Now there is a new big message about teacher training next year. Does the Council of State see the need to do something about teacher training in the field of school-home cooperation, so that this can be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1351	The ability, the will and the ability to cooperate with the parents I think is central to everyone in high school, both those who are going to graduate as a newly educated and those who are already there. It is therefore quite obvious that this must be an element of teacher training. How and to what extent this is going to happen, we have to get back to when we go through teacher training. But the goal of teachers having that kind of competence and that kind of commitment, I fully share with the representative Scarbøvik, and I'm convinced that a lot of teachers in our schoolwork are doing a huge job trying to get that kind of cooperation. Still, we see that many parents and many students feel that they do not have a good enough influence on their own school life and their own school. I'm very busy facilitating it, among other things. by providing pupils with good opportunities for feedback on their own day-to-day school and school situations, and also by gradually finding schemes where parents can be drawn more by both evaluating the quality of education and education that their children receive, and by having a real influence on the organisation of the school. So we keep making these nice words into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1361	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘By means of press releases, the Minister of Church, Education and Research has indicated to the institutions concerned in the higher education sector that the unanimous recommendation of the Mjøs Committee will lead to the granting of university status by new institutions 5-10 years, while the Council of State is ready to issue licences immediately. What is the basis of these stories?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1370	State research funds need to be concentrated and channelled into quality environments in order to provide a basis for internationally competitive research environments. Without such a concentration, the quality increase in Norwegian research foreseen in the Research Communication will be difficult to achieve. We therefore say in the big message that we presented not long ago that we do not have room in Norway for more broad universities than the four we have today, and that it is important to strengthen their role as basic research institutions. Both the Mjøs selection and St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 presupposes that current higher education institutions may obtain university status if they have been approved for the establishment of doctoral education. The difference lies in the number of doctoral programmes to be required before they can receive the university designation. The Mjøs Committee proposed that there should be four doctoral disciplines, while the notification assumes that one area is sufficient. It implies that universities may also be entitled to be called universities on the basis of doctoral degrees within their field of competence. The Representative for Wage asks for reasons for my opinion that it may take several years before colleges can become universities if the criteria of the Mjøs Committee are taken into account. There are three state universities that currently have access to doctoral degrees, but they only have doctoral degrees in one or two disciplines. It takes time to build the professional foundation for research education, and it costs money to fund doctoral programmes. The government also proposes that needs assessment be carried out before new doctoral courses are approved. The authorisation itself shall be based on an expert judgement which must take time. This is the background to my estimate that if the model of the Mjøs Committee is chosen, it may take five to ten years for new institutions to receive a university designation in Norway. The criteria of the Mjøs Committee may also contribute to a biased focus on doctoral programmes at the expense of other professional development. It would be unfortunate at a stage where universities have important tasks in improving professional courses, ensuring the quality of study for all student groups and focusing on research and development that benefits professional and regional innovation. From this point of view, I believe that the model proposed by the Government strongly respects an overall development strategy for these institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1383	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, quite rightly, was only partly an answer to the question. The reason I've raised the question is that there's been some pretty big news in the press, most recently in Stavanger Evening Magazine a week ago, which reproduces the statements the Council of State has dropped, which, in my opinion, gives a rather skeptical and misleading presentation of what the University and Higher Education Committee has actually proposed. The University and Higher Education Committee has found that, as the Council of State says, there are no more than four broad universities involved. So we agree on that. However, what is the main point of the Mjøs Committee's proposal is that a distinction should be made between professional and political assessments by establishing a stand-alone body to carry out purely professional evaluations. And that's at this point it seems to me that the presentation of the unanimous recommendation by the Council of State is misleading, because it doesn't include the very point in the proposal of the Mjøs Committee. It reduces it all to a calendar issue: who can provide university status as quickly as possible. Does the Council of State really believe that the recommendation of a unanimous, wide-ranging selection can be ignored in such an easy-to-use way?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1394	I record that the representative on his follow-up question talks about something quite different than he did on his primary question, where it was about how long it would take for new institutions to get university status if the recommendation from the Mjøs Committee were followed. The creation of an independent accreditation institution or independent assessment of the breadth and quality of an institution before granting the right to a university designation will at least not lead to a reduction in time; it has little to do with it. On the contrary, there will be a time-consuming process, as well as the institution, of course, having to develop first the four doctoral programmes required by the Mjøs Committee. When you also know that the Right in your assessment of the Mjøs Committee in a separate work committee that the Right has set up, you say that you have to have very strict criteria for using the university designation even if you choose the model of the Mjøs Committee, I think I have my words left, that this will take quite many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1399	I find that the Council of State is not willing to address the question of his own way of presenting the proposals of the Mjøs Committee and the Council of State, respectively, is a factual and comprehensive presentation or not. I think that's a pity, because the Mjøs committee here has done a thorough job. It is a broad range of educational policy and professional, and this recommendation is in fact one of the few points where the sample is absolutely unanimous in its recommendation. And one of the reasons is that we, among other things. when awarding doctoral degrees to higher education institutions, has unfortunate experience of what happens if a Council of State falls for the temptation to short-circuit the professional and political process. This happened under the past of the Council of State Giske, and this led the Board of Directors of the University Council to write a letter outlining any future cooperation with the Council of State. Does not the Council of State think that this speaks for the fact that all parties are served by the fact that the technical and political decisions are somewhat kept tidy apart?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1406	I fully agree that we can have a discussion about which procedures will lead to the quality assessment that will lead to a possible university designation, because we also say in our big news that there must be a quality assessment on the basis. But precisely because it's not in my position as Minister of Education to allocate some political doctoral programmes, this will necessarily take a long time. The professional basis to be developed, the doctoral programme to be developed, and the quality assessment to be carried out. And with Right demand for strict criteria also within a Mjøs model, it will necessarily take many years. I fear that this will significantly lead to a unilateral focus on doctoral programmes and additional basic research resources within the institutions, leading to a spread of basic research resources, and to a lack of a comprehensive strategy. I fully accept that the Right has a skeptical view that Stavanger, Kristiansand and Bodø will use the university designation and want stricter criteria for that designation than the Government is in favour of. That's a neat point of view, but that it has no effect other than that it's going to take many, many years before it happens, I can't see that I don't have the basis to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1416	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State wish to ensure that students at the Norwegian veterinary high school have access to both relevant education and practice in relation to small ruminant diseases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1423	The veterinary college of Norway has a national responsibility for the training of veterinarians, with special responsibility for basic research and for the training of researchers in this field. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research assumes that the Veterinary College is doing its full task, and so far we have had no reason to doubt that they have done so. We must note that Norway's veterinary high school currently has a tight economy. The college has gradually built up a level of activity that is above the budgeted and has therefore come into an economic situation that has required a turnaround. However, there has been a pre-requisite on the part of the Ministry that the financial reverse operation should not weaken education at the university. The KUF has engaged a consultancy company that assesses the economic situation of Norway's veterinary high school. It has been necessary to get an overview of all aspects of the economy of higher education. I assume that the university is following up on its responsibility to provide professionally satisfactory education and practice. The Ministry will take it up with the College on the first occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1434	I thank you for your answer. A time of focus on the interrelationship between animal health and quality food, with the search lights on animal welfare and safe food from land to table, requires a good veterinary service. In a budgetary situation with increasing numbers of students and fewer funds this year, Norway’s veterinary school has been forced to exclude students from the most relevant and useful practice of the Sandnes Small Fee Research Institute. The background to my question is not lack of trust in the performance of their tasks by the Veterinary Sphere. The background is information on an alarming budgetary situation in an area where education is crucial. In addition to a reputable professional environment, the Sandnes Institute for Small Fetishing has small fetish clinics, furniture and facilities that are dimensioned for a larger number of students, and it is located in the most expensive area in the country. We state councils look at the possibility of using this institute to strengthen veterinary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1447	It is well possible that the offer in Sandnes is both qualitatively good and effective for those who benefit from it. We have to look through every budget at what appropriations we are making. That's the way we allocate resources in the education sector. For 2001, the various institutions and institutions have been allocated their budgets, and it is important that they are able to provide professionally satisfactory education and practice on that basis. In the big message we have submitted not long ago, I have said clearly that we need a clear division of labour, but at the same time a good cooperation between various institutions and the Institute in Norway. So that's the way we have to use the disciplines where they are, and we have to have point skills. It's completely in line with the idea we have, and if such cooperation can go within it, I'm positive to it. But it really has to be a long way to go to assess and be able to work together on how resources are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1454	I would like to highlight the unique potential of relevant practices in Sandnes, because it is the most expensive area in the country. Let me take advantage of the need to challenge the Council of State in two areas: look closely at the budgetary situation at the Veterinary College in relation to the challenges they face, and look at the assessments that the Veterinary College itself has made in relation to the clear challenges ahead and the steps that must be taken, both structurally, organisationally and economically. The Swedish Veterinary College's own institute in Rogaland can participate with more than today. Food surveillance in Rogaland has shown that they can be involved in the teaching of meat control and in food hygiene, both in meat and fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1463	I am convinced that the offer in Sandnes both professionally and not least in relation to the activity taking place in the region is a useful offer. And in relation to the attractiveness of the region, probably the representative Meltveit Kleppa has a greater professional competence than me. But I have to say, however, that although there are certainly positive and good measures, the institutions themselves have to consider how they want to use their resources within an overall framework. It's a tough period for Norway's veterinary high school. It's a tight economic situation. At the same time, you have quite a lot of investment needs to be able to make a real offer to the students we're training, so we have to make good use of the resources. If this can go into that kind of thinking, it is positive, but it must be for the institution to take that kind of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1470	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-25.ana.ud506e1479	There is no record.
