ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e30	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e33	On behalf of Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on amendments to Law 26 March 1999 No. 17 on rental contracts to mitigate large domestic rentals in the rental market, to ensure better housing security for tenants and to make user payments in the Dispute Settlement Committee and the Conciliation Council equal. [[the renting of dwellings,]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e38	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e50	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e61	The main challenges in Norwegian energy policy are limiting energy consumption, reducing the use of electricity and investing in new renewable energy sources. In connection with the treatment of the energy message last year, the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and SV supported a goal to use 4 TWh more water-borne heat and to build wind power plants producing 3 TWh by 2010. The goal of limiting the use of energy was also supported. If we're going to do this conversion, we're going to depend on more efficient organisation and more stable funding. Today, the in-conversion work is unbridled, fragmented and resource-intensive. We don't know what our efforts actually give of results. The Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supports the Government's proposal to pool the activities of a new energy institution. Enova, who becomes the name of this institution, shall take over the work and responsibilities currently shared between the NVE and the distribution companies. The majority of the Committee is committed to the widest possible use of Enova by external partners. In this context, Enova is not going to evolve into an operating institution. The government has decided to locate the new body in Trondheim. It is a reasonable choice based on Enova’s need for the recruitment of competent professionals. Trondheim’s wide-ranging labour market and strong energy and technological environment ensure the ability to provide the necessary resources. Regional centres have considerable skills and know the needs of conversion work very well. These centres will have a new contracting entity and will have to compete in time in line with other actors. But I'm pretty convinced that their unique position makes them have the best assumptions for success. The Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV support the Government's proposal for a new funding model, where the body is financed through two sources of income, a mark-up on the network tariff, and funds from the State budget. The funds are allocated to a fund that finances Enova's activities. To achieve this, there has to be a change in the Energy Act. The mark-up on the network tariff is legalised and made compulsory. The working party, the centre parts and the SV agree that the application is set at 0,3 ears. But at the same time, we ask that the Government look at the possibility of expanding the basis to include other stationary energy consumption. We don't think it's fair that only hydropower should be involved in financing the big conversion of our energy system. The working party is committed to maintaining the state transfers to the Fund at a high level. The fixed revenue generated by the mark-up on the network tariff must not become a sleep cushion for the country. We rely on money from both sources to achieve our ambitious goals. The working party believes that natural gas is also part of the conversion of our energy system. For this reason, the Labour Party disagrees with the Christian People's Party, SV and Left's proposal to establish a dedicated gas centre. We do not think it is appropriate to start a necessary process of pooling activities by establishing different alternative energy sources institutions. An overall organisation in Trondheim provides an opportunity to assess different energy solutions against each other. This allows you to choose the most appropriate option in each individual situation based on local conditions and environment. If it really is that the Christian People's Party, SV and Left are afraid that too much money will be spent on gas, these parties should have scrapped these plans. A national gas competence centre initially requires much more money than the Government in this process proposes for Enova to take care of. However, the working party does not reject the future establishment of such a centre of competence. But we have to start at the right end. First, the Storting must present a national strategy for domestic use of gas. Then we have to determine the scope of such a strategy. And finally, we need to find out if there is a need for a dedicated centre of expertise to implement this strategy. The decisions we are making here today will have a significant impact on the success of the conversion of energy consumption to renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e97	When the Storting addressed the Energy Communication, the majority argued that 5 billion DKK over 10 years were to be allocated to the conversion of energy use and energy production, and that a new independent body responsible for energy saving and new renewable energy sources should be set up. The Energy Communication represented an important cross-roads in reiterating both in terms of new renewable energy sources and in terms of improving the efficiency of energy use. Here the Stortinget has said that the large hydropower expansion period is over. It is now time to take the necessary steps to achieve technological and environmental improvements in the production of energy and electricity. In addition, Norway has signed international agreements that commit us to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and these climate agreements are leading our energy policy. Actions for more efficient energy use and energy savings are central to an environmentally friendly energy policy and to the long-term and sound management of energy resources. For Norway, it is also important to combine the role of a large energy producer with being an environmental policy precursor. It is therefore important that, as an energy nation, we make greater efforts to use and develop new renewable energy sources and to facilitate a greater degree of energy flexibility in order to ensure continued environmentally friendly energy production. The collection of work and other energy conversion in one institution is very important for cost-effectiveness and for pooling skills. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a basis for stepping up the switch-on charge and extending the basis to other stationary energy consumption. This would have made it possible to achieve a level of investment that is in line with what the Storting said when dealing with the energy communication, but for which it unfortunately did not become a majority in the Committee this time. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to have overall environmental policy objectives that ensure that any parallel action does not favour a fossil energy source. That is why, in the budget negotiations with the Workers' Party, we proposed that gassing should be separated into a separate budget line, which we also achieved. We believe that this logic should also have been the basis for the creation of the new body, but I note that the majority here today are in favour of increasing domestic gas use as part of the new body. The Christian People's Party also wants an increased investment in natural gas as an energy source, but believes it is important to bear in mind that gas is not a renewable energy source and that a gas investment can take resources from energy saving work. Lack of infrastructure is one of the barriers to increased use of new renewable energy sources in Norway today. The development of gas infrastructure is highly capital-intensive and may take place in direct competition with the development of district and local heating networks. The Christian People's Party represented the minority in the Committee with the wish to establish a national gas centre and to localise it to Haugaland. Gas is used here in a wide range of areas, and competence and the environment have developed independently of central support. In a comprehensive strategy for the domestic use of gas, as the Government is about to join in, it would be natural to take as a starting point the activity of the national gas centre in Haugaland. Gas and new renewable energy sources can undoubtedly conflict with each other if the political focus on renewable and non-renewable energy sources is not distinguished. The Christian People's Party records that the Workers' Party and the majority do not want such a distinction. Finally, I address the minority proposal in the position of setting up a national gas centre located in Haugaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e118	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e121	The right has long called for a more rational and market-oriented management of the country’s energy saving efforts. At the latest in the budget position, we underlined that the market needs to be more widely used. Although we were initially sceptical about a new government agency, we are now pleased that we have achieved a stronger market thinking in this area as well. The task of the new body is to ensure the greatest possible savings and environmentally friendly energy units without building up an operational organisation itself. The work is to be carried out by all those environments that have good ideas and which work with projects linked to an investment project. We are particularly pleased that the majority agree that the Ministry should develop clear criteria for success for its activities. But this is not just a matter of organising work on energy savings, it is also a matter of a new flat-rate charge on electricity. The right is opposite this for two reasons. Firstly, we believe that households already pay too high charges for their electricity consumption. The majority open up to increase the levy and find more areas to charge it. This shows that this charge could soon be used as a tool to increase electricity prices in Norway. The same parties have pledged to grant NOK 5 billion for this purpose. We're afraid that this whole bill will be pushed over to the power users. It is a great paradox that households that use the renewable energy source electricity have to pay a levy for energy savings, while for example: households using oil shall not pay the corresponding fee. Secondly, we believe that increased work should be given equal priority to other areas of the State budget. We find it unfortunate that the revenue from this new levy is directly linked to policy areas. When the Government announced this matter in the budget proposal, there was some uncertainty about the use of the fund. Some people talked about a new energy directorate, others thought that this body should have the task of following up the national gas strategy. Through this case, this has now been cancelled and cleaned up. Activities will relate to energy savings and new renewable energy sources. Natural gas can, of course, be part of these projects as long as it is a complement to other energy sources. In the past, the right has had an impact on the requirement for a national strategy for the use of gas on land. There it would be natural, as the majority suggests, to come back to who will be responsible for following up such a strategy. I agree with the description given by the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV of the active gas environment in Haugaland. But, in our opinion, it is wrong to set up government bodies before the Storting has discussed what is the goal and strategy for the use of gas on land. Such a strategy will need to address the use of gas in three main perspectives: as energy, in transport and not least as raw material in industrial/product development. It's quite obvious that the agency, as intended, will not be able to attend to all of these sides. With this I take up proposal No. 2, from the Right, and recommends the Right Group to vote against the option I, proposal for a new §4-4, but otherwise support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e138	The representative Bent Höie has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The President will note that the time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that the morning meeting be extended until today's map has been completed. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e143	For the treatment of St.meld. No 29 for 1998-99, a majority in the United Kingdom adopted targets for the conversion of energy use and energy production. The majority were concerned that in Norway we had too high energy consumption and therefore adopted some measures to limit this consumption as well as some measures to convert energy production. For this, 5 billion new tax and tax credits were to be allocated, among other things. to subsidise energy production which could not stand on its own economic grounds. Of course, the progress party distanced itself from this, not least because we do not have a higher energy consumption in Norwegian households than in the countries with which we normally compare. In addition, we believed and still believe that it is totally wrong to subsidise energy production in a country that is almost flooded with energy. The Party considers energy to be an ordinary commercial product which must be freely marketable without public interference. We therefore take a strong distance from measures that are distorting competition, such as subsidisation – which I have already mentioned – and the continuous introduction of higher taxes and new taxes, which the case we are dealing with today also contains. The Government proposes to reorganise the work on the conversion of energy use and energy production. In order to achieve this, a new and bureaucratic organisation will now be set up. Of course, funding should be shifted to consumers in the form of a new fee. Of course, the Progress Party will not be involved in building up a new and totally unnecessary bureaucratic body. Nor will we support a new charge that comes at the top of already too high charges, but we believe it must be the market price on energy that must be crucial for the profitability of consumers to start up an additional measure at all times. We assume that the country's businesses and households will focus on saving energy because it represents a cost that most people want to reduce. We therefore believe that it must be the economic gain of the individual that must be the main incentive to save energy. The setting indicates that some are calling for the establishment of a national gas land-based gas centre. We do not think it is right for us to address this at this stage, given that the government is now preparing a big message on these issues, which we will be receiving later. We therefore support the proposal to come back to who will be responsible for following up the national gas strategy in the context of the said Gazette. I will finally signal that we want to vote against the proposal for a new section 4-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e162	With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a relatively large deal in this case, and that is my starting point. It is also positive – to talk a little about the gas at the beginning – that a majority impose clear restrictions on the use of gas on land. It is clear that there is a multiple in this gas power plant room – the government came to power on a matter of gas power plants – but as it is now formulated, it is suggested that it should not be the main strategy, at least not in this case. But the Labour Party is an Ole Brumm party, so it may still be that they will say: Yes, thank you, both – even if it looks like these gas plants are slow. I think it's important that we now get an instrument that can put some theory into practice. We know that there are quite a lot of good projects that are not put into practice, including: because they don't get funds. For this reason, SV’s budget is completely different in terms of both supporting research and being able to address the energy problem in general, based on the crazy climate problem we are facing and which is constantly emerging. I believe that the organisational approach that is now taking place could lead to more concrete efforts on the part of an individual and to an increase in energy efficiency. If we can do it properly, some other needs will be reduced in relation to the amount of force added. And then it's also a mess. Would you like to include a fossil fuel in such a centre — a fuel that helps increase greenhouse gas emissions? Or should a person focus on the most environmentally friendly options? And so that's where we're going to separate layers. SV and two of the center parts mean that we shouldn't have these two things together, that it might weaken the bet on the best environmental options. That's why our proposal is to separate gas as a project of our own, because it makes sense in some contexts as well. We have seen through various projects in Haugaland that gas can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is the most important starting point for SV. We have seen it when it comes to industrial development and product development. We have seen in the transport sector that if we add up to the use of gas on land, it is possible to get buses and cars on top of it, if a bet on it. We have seen that it is possible to phase out the use of more polluting sources as oil for the benefit of gas, i.e. concrete measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There's the Haugaland in front. Then the question is for those who have a bit of local difficulty both here and there: what's wrong with us starting from that place in the country that's in front of us when it's going to be using gas on land, saying that we want to continue working on this and that here we want to create a national center that we can show up to others? What's wrong with establishing that principle? I don't understand. It is obvious that it is important for a party such as the Right and the Labour Party to operate so that the development of the use of gas on land in the Haugalands area is not speeded up until a new one is notified. Our proposal is that we take that grip now, and then the other parties that fail this proposal will explain why they cannot take this grip now. SV is largely satisfied with the grip that is now being taken, with the exception of this one point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e179	We have a lot to do in terms of reducing energy consumption, in terms of reducing energy pollution, and in terms of transforming into more alternative renewable energy use. We have to succeed, otherwise it will quickly go in the wrong direction in all these three areas. The measures associated with this legislative change are positive in order to bring about the changes on which there is broad agreement. The centre party does not want us to now decide on the establishment of a national centre for natural gas, which three parties now believe we should decide. We want to have a more detailed analysis of whether there is a need for a centre of expertise for natural gas and, where appropriate, its location. The central party believes that it is appropriate to allow the new fund and the new agency to support natural gas projects where natural gas is a complement to other energy sources. Trondheim has been elected by the Government as a locator for this island centre. It's a good and natural choice, and that's what I mean to be able to say without saying anything negative about the Haugaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e188	The matter we are dealing with today is a follow-up to the energy message that the central government provided. An ambitious effort was made to increase investment in renewable energy sources. One main act was the escalation of appropriations for these purposes; another was the organisation of accommodating work that we are discussing today. The Left supports the proposal of the Government and supports the Government's choice of location of that unit to Trondheim. I am of the opinion that it is important to stress that what we are going to establish in Trondheim is not to be a bureaucratic, heavy and resource-intensive entity. I think it's important for the Storting to follow closely that we get a unit that uses the money, not a unit where funds are administered away. We have a network of island centres in our country, and several of these have worked very well. It is important that the new unit in Trondheim be set up in such a way that it becomes an active interaction with the local environments of competence, so that they can be maintained and further developed. This is also a way to ensure a good decentralised effect of the on-the-job work. A national strategy for the domestic use of gas is now being pursued. It's an important work, and the Left wants to escalate efforts in this area. It must also be reflected in the appropriations made by the Storting. We don't want an additional body to deal with this gassetting, because we think it will help to focus away from the work and the commitment to renewable energy sources. The left wants to build a gas centre in North Rogaland, where it's right for it. I believe that the right time to make such a choice is now. Then one can build this unit and incorporate the gas strategy that one will later design. I am disappointed that the majority does not agree with the structure of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV, but I record what is actually present: that this is a postponement of this decision. This means that at a later stage we will have the opportunity to take a new debate on the location of such a gas centre, for example in North Rogaland. I see that there is something different approach to this issue from the Right and the Labour Party. It seems almost as if Right Bent Höie is looking forward to this new round, which could lead to the location of a gas centre in North Rogaland, while the case-rapporteur in a petition almost gave the impression that this was an obligation race that one saw having to go. There is a need to escalate the allocations to the new and renewable energy sources. It is not enough just for the transfer charge to be charged. It must not be a sleep cushion in the work of the majority in the United Kingdom that they will carry out, to escalate the annual appropriations in the State budget by 500 million. kr for this purpose. There is a great deal to be recovered in terms of energy saving, and there is a great deal to be gained from intensive investment in renewable energy sources. The starting point is not that we have a crisis situation that makes us have to go for solutions that are not sustainable and environmentally sound in a long-term perspective, we have the freedom of action we need to make the good environmental choices. The Energy and Environment Committee was recently in Germany and gained insight into energy policy as it is working on. One of the elements of that policy was the objective of reducing energy consumption in the period 2010-2020. It would be natural to have a similar ambition in Norway, yes, an even more offensive ambition. The agency that we set up in Trondheim should be able to become a driver in this direction. With extensive savings after a completely different strategy than the one that has been followed so far, and with a completely different pressure, we should be speeding up the work on renewable energy sources. I also miss the action plan that the Government has said it will come to stimulate the construction of pure gas power plants. It is also necessary to bring it forward in such a way that it becomes the choice of clean gas power stations, and not the highly polluting ones, with a technology that has been put into practice. The ambitions of the left in terms of energy policy are to combine strong efforts with energy savings to become a major net exporter of clean energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e208	This matter is a very important part of the strategy for transforming energy production and energy use in Norway. With this legislative change, we provide a whole new and more efficient organisation of work to limit energy use, turn the consumption from electricity to environmentally friendly heat, and increase the production of alternative energy. I am therefore pleased with the great upsurge in this matter, which seems to be happening today. Today's way of organizing this work is fragmented and untargeted. Law-enforcement actions are funded by afact on the network tariff, and work is usually carried out by regional acknowledgment centres. The work is limited to neutral information and guidance. Insufficient flexibility in the use of money, problems in testing the results and lack of motivation of the network operators, who are the owners, suggest that things can be done better than today. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate may arise in situations where the role of concessional authority and regulator conflicts with efforts to promote increased use of renewable energy. As a directorate, the NVE is also bound by a series of institutional frameworks that make it difficult to achieve long-term and more active bets. Work on the conversion of energy production and use needs to be organised in another way to achieve the results we want. The law changes build up under the broad deal on the energy policy goals that emerged in the energy message setting last year. A multi-digit figure was recorded in the target of limiting consumption, of using 3 TWh new wind power and 4 TWh with water-borne heat based on new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat by 2010. These objectives also underpin the Government's policy in this area. Based on this setting, an energy body will be created in Trondheim before the summer, and the name of the new body will be Enova. Equally important as the organisation is the fact that legislative changes lead to a new funding of this work. The mandatory application of the network tariff and the creation of an energy fund will contribute to a more flexible and long-term funding. The activities of Enova will be financed by the Energy Fund. Concrete and long-term performance targets shall be set for the use of funds in the Fund. The size will be briefed annually on the results of the work. The effectiveness of the measures shall be evaluated after four years. The aim of this transformation is to have a more powerful and offensive organisation of work to achieve the energy policy objectives. Therefore, it surprises me that the individual party wants to split up and red tape this work now. In the context of the current year's budget, there was a broad consensus that a desire to stimulate the use of gas in water-borne heat systems was needed. With the help of the minority, such projects for future purposes would send two applications and turn to two different bureaucracies. There will also be a setback in relation to the way this work is organized today. Natural gas is, in my view, an important part of the work on the conversion of the energy system. The natural gas will play a much more important role in the future than today. It is good for both the development of industry, the environment and energy supply. Finally, I would like to say that this new body is dependent on being associated with external assistance in order to do the job. So this shouldn't be an exercise. in the context of work related to gas and other energy sources, one will also in future need the environments existing in this area today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e234	The background to the issue we are dealing with today is a follow-up to the measures adopted during the energy notification process last year. And there the majority insisted with a broad pen that in Norway we were some big wasters of energy, despite the fact that in the Progress Party we could point out a lot of statistics that showed the opposite. As late as last week, there was a new NVE survey that once again strikes holes in that myth that we are so big energy wasters in Norway. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: will the Government now take account of the new signals coming from the NVE and look at Norwegian energy use with new eyes, or will the Government continue to work to reduce the growth of consumption by means of increasing charges for Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e239	It is true that studies show that we in Norway have about the same energy use as in other countries. This does not mean, of course, that one in Norway and in these other countries cannot become more efficient and use this energy in a better way than is the case today. What is special about Norway is that we mainly use electricity in our energy use, while most of our neighbouring countries have a much wider range and a greater variation in the energy source. Our policy is to follow up the objectives that were drawn up last year in the Energy Communication, and which, in my view, were well founded. We want to use the energy in a more efficient way than is the case today. This is what we want from the point of view of the environment. But there's also an important new moment that has come in relation to when we're dealing with this last year -- at least I'm going to focus it more strongly than what you did last year -- that electricity is now becoming a good thing that's scarce in Norwegian society, and that therefore there's a greater requirement for us when it's going to be efficient to use this energy source so that we get the most of it back. And it's like that, for example. we can meet the heat needs we have, even if we reduce the use of electricity for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e246	I found it interesting to hear the Council of State Akselsen talk so much and so positively about the environment, energy efficiency, business etc. But it's a problem that arises for me at least: when you're going to shift energy use and energy production, as the Council of State emphasized, it doesn't mean that one in one way has to weaken other objectives that one has, for example. relative to an increase in electricity generation through, inter alia: gas power station? Based on this, the Council of State will work on building gas power plants that do not use energy more than 60-65 pst, when one knows that it is possible to use more than 90 pst. of energy? For the argument, a little bit is hollow if one thing is to apply to household sounds and another thing to gas power stations when it applies to this, for example. heat recovery. There I found that the stas council has an explanation problem, but he might be able to explain it in a line. So a little bit of a strange argument from the Council of State in relation to a minority proposal on gas centers. He says that this will lead to increased red tape, and that one has to send two applications. There's a strange argument from a government council that that's the problem. It must be possible to solve it by means of an organisational grip on the part of the Council of State. This I did not think as a factual argument. But let me ask you if that's how to understand that the Council of State agrees that there is an area in Norway that is in the front when it comes to the use of gas on land, and that it's natural to develop such areas instead of starting a completely different place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e255	The representative of Langeland claimed that I have an explanation problem when it comes to the issue of gas power plants. I suspect that in this area there is also an understanding problem and a lack of understanding. Actually, I don't think we should spend so much more time talking about gas power plants, because either one is dependent on it or not, it has to be a goal for all of us to use the energy we have at our disposal, in the most efficient way possible. So, of course, we, who are followers of using gas power plants, think that the option is the import of coal power, so there I would argue that there are several others who also have an explanation problem. But I still hope we won't have more rehearsal exercises on it today. So the question of using the gas. There's of course one in Haugesund has done a very good job, just as one has done a couple of other places in Norway. In my view, there is nothing in what the majority today decide, which will prevent that work from continuing, because in the future, this new energy body that is now being created in Trondheim needs to get help from outside to carry out the tasks they're doing. In this way, they can then purchase the service from those who currently have this competence. But I am much more concerned that we use the money we have available, to build pipelines than to pay bureaucrats. I know it's set of 20 million. kr for gas purposes on an own pot in the current year's budget. They thought I was going to build pipelines in the terrain to get the gas out. But if a private body is to be responsible for gas only, I'm afraid the money will agree to pay the bureaucrats instead. So Langeland says we have to find an organisational grip to sort that out. That's what we've done. We have proposed that this be consistent, because it is related, and therefore these applications should be treated in one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e269	If it is of the magnitude that the Council of State now expresses that he is thinking of a bureaucracy linked to the creation of a new body, also attributed to Trondheim, then there is every reason to follow in the establishment there with great vigilance – because there must be an organ of little bureaucracy and a strong desire to use the money in the field. The body to be set up in Trondheim is part of an offensive policy to focus on an increasing and renewable energy sources. Along with a body, you have to follow the money that allows you to do something. There were plans for the joint arrangement of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. Unfortunately, in its first budget, the Labour Party government significantly reduced the appropriations for these purposes. Now this was somewhat improved by the budget agreement in Stortinget and the involvement of the centre parties there. Now it is known that the Labour Party has been at the budget conference in Halvorsbøle, and there have been plenty of leaks in a number of areas. It could have been interesting to hear if the Council of State in the baggage from Halvorsbøle had brought with it the appropriations for an increase in work and renewable energy sources needed to follow up the energy message and needed to equip the body we are now establishing in Trondheim, with the action needed to achieve the objectives we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e278	This, I thought, was an interesting question from a former parliamentary leader. I wonder if that was how the center party operated after they had been to internal conferences in the government, that they ran around and explained and told me what had been the result. However, I would like to say that there was no other result than a continuation of this work, and that the budget will be presented in October. So it's said that a reduced permissions in this area were said to be monthly last year. I will make a strong reservation against that. What has happened is that we've had a strong growth in the vows for a few years, with the result that the money hasn't been used. As a result, one in 1999 had to write the permits down to zero because one did not get the money to pay. And it wasn't because there wasn't any need for the money, but simply because it takes a certain period of time to carry out that activity. That's one of the reasons why we're adding a fund, so you don't have to give up the money, and then you pay it back to the Treasury when the cough comes. The last thing that the government did when they wrote these permissions down to zero was to bring a warrant, so that these money could be disposed of. When we took over the power, we saw that we came in the same situation – we didn't get to spend the money. That's why we took some money and created a warrant. This meant that the activity was not significantly reduced. And unlike the previous government, which withdrew the money in 1999, we chose to transfer it to the current year, so that the money is available and can be used in the future. I would therefore warn against saying that the activity in this area is monthly reduced. One must see the warrants and the permissions below one, and that is what the pool gives the activity in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e287	The cord shift has therefore been completed. No more people have joined the list of speakers, and the debate in case No. 1 is over. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e297	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e303	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘A national gas land-based gas centre is established. The centre shall be located on Haugaland.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The revenue of the EFF shall be allocated to the State budget.’;» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e376	Here you have the Right and the Progress Party notify that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e401	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e410	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27-lower.ana.ud2130e421	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
