ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e27	Since this is the first meeting of the Stortinge in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Stortinge, the members of the press and all those who have their work related to the Storinge, a really good new year! Representative Ole Johs. Brunæs, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e37	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e42	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e47	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e55	The representative, Jan Petersen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e58	I will first put forward a proposal on behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Bent Höie and myself on the action plan for the control of environmental pollution PCBs. And then a proposal from Per-Kristian Foss, Ansgar Gabrielsen and myself to wind up the business cycle charge on commercial buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e66	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative Mr. Børge Brende will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e71	On behalf of the representative Per-Kristian Foss and myself, I submit a proposal asking for the presentation of a report on the main features of a possible reform of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e81	I would also like to make a proposal to repeal the Decision on the short-term economic tax on investment in new industrial buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e86	The President is convinced that this too in its diversity will be dealt with in a regulatory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e105	Before we start up, the President will remember that Stortinget has adopted a temporary change in the Stortingen Rules of Procedure, which means that representatives can only ask one question each in the ordinary Questionnaire. This provision has an effect from today's Question Time and implies that, in Question Time with many questions, it should still be possible for representatives to ask two follow-up questions. The practical implementation of the ordinary Questionnaire is amended at the same time by the use of the two interlocutors placed in the hall. This means that the representatives who have to ask questions do so from the pulpit at the press room, while the respective members of the government give their answers from the pulpit at the diplomat's. It goes without saying that both parties should be in the vicinity of the interlocutors in a reasonable time, so that we can get a winding that is not characterized by long walks from the opposite side of the hall. The President stresses that these amendments are a testing scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e110	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Ellen Horn State Council Guri Ingreichsen State Council Trond Giske The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - No one's getting up. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e129	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. It may not be surprising for the Minister of Culture that the question will be about the NRK, when we have registered the report that the NRK has received in the media lately, where the NRK and the progress of the case are presented as both a scandal and what is worse. In this context, I note that the Minister of Culture continues to show full confidence in the government that exists – where the chairman has now withdrawn – even though it is claimed that there have been both large leakages from oral internal negotiations on the board, and that documents for internal processing on the board have also gone astray. My question to the Minister of Culture is: is it still such that the Minister of Culture has full confidence in the existing government and will not take account of these conditions when a new government is to be constituted during the extraordinary general assembly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e134	Leakage issues have been central to discussions around the outgoing Governor of the NRC, which justified his departure from the problems of leakage. Anne Carine Tanum has naturally joined the board as Vice-Chairman in order to function until the extraordinary general assembly that I have already called, and which will probably take place on Friday 19 January, and I have told her that if there are leakages from the board's inner life, it is totally unacceptable and must be dealt with immediately. As regards the final composition of the board, I will come back to this at the general meeting in the middle of January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e139	I thank you for your answer. I find it a little strange that the Minister of Culture still cannot give any indication as to whether she has confidence in the existing government, when we know that the NRK itself is looking for moles in this board. But let me go a little further. I also find it somewhat worrying that the situation is as it is in the NRK today, when we know that the NRK is funded by Norwegian taxpayers through licensing payments. It is therefore very important that this is done in order. It may seem that the NRK has not taken inwards that it is an AS, but still operates as a state monopoly and then does not have the right operation. I wonder when the Minister of Culture finds it right to inform the Storting about the general situation in the NRK, so that the Stortinge will not get all the publicity and all the information about the NRK through the media – when we see the headlines that have been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e144	I have the greatest understanding of Storting's concern about the situation in the NRK. It is also mine to the most extent, and top priority is being given to the Ministry of Culture at all levels to obtain a note to be delivered to the Government, which will be presented to the Committee next round and, where appropriate, to the Stortinget. As far as trust is concerned, I must stress that I have never expressed my distrust of the current board. It was the board of directors who chose to leave. The problems in the NRC include a number of issues, I recall the economic problems and challenges of the new digital media, as well as the leadership crisis, which is now evident. All these things will be discussed carefully and given top priority by the Council of State and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e149	There will be follow-up questions - Ola T. Loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e152	There is a serious situation the NRK has come up in. It is known, as the Council of State has also stressed, that the institution has major financial problems. Now, economics shouldn't be a goal in itself. Economics should be a means of furthering other objectives, and when one has experienced the situation that the director has left and the institution is thus brought up in a crisis, I would like to ask the Council of State: what responsibility does she have for the institution to come into the situation in which it is, not least in view of what role the NRC will play in the future in meeting a new reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e158	I would like to stress that as a specialist council and general assembly for the NRK, I feel responsible for the development of the NRK very heavy, and as I have already said, it is one of the highest priority tasks for me to address this. Both the digital challenge of eating up competition and the strong need for better financial management led me to reduce the current government under Reve's management. While this board has addressed a number of major challenges in terms of digitisation and financial management, they have failed in the important work of facilitating the recruitment of a new broadcasting director. But I would like to stress, of course, the seriousness of the situation to the new board that is then appointed in an extraordinary general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e165	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e168	Neither of us should underestimate the economic problems that the NRC has faced, nor the challenges that the NRC is facing. Nevertheless, we should insist that the NRK is not any private capitalist enterprise, it is actually a licence-funded public broadcaster that will provide the population with both a cultural offer and a media offer that is not based on commercial criteria. For me, it looks like important forces in the NRK have put a very big emphasis on winning the game of viewers with TV 2 – almost at all costs. And I believe that the Minister of Culture has played with these forces in many ways when she now appointed the board. So I want to hear a little bit about what kind of vision the Minister of Culture has for the NRK. Does she want the NRK as an important media and cultural enterprise when she is to appoint a new board of directors? Will she tell us that the NRK doesn't need a cleaning boy or a cleaning girl in terms of the economy, but a person who has social understanding and good things in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e173	I thank you for the question. My vision for the NRK is – and I have said that here in this room before – that the NRK will also be a central cultural institution and a backbone in the Norwegian cultural landscape in the future. A prerequisite for this is good governance. I've never seen economics as a separate goal for the NRK, but I think it's absolutely necessary to have a government that has the ability to think strategically and to clean up the economy in order to get the best framework conditions to perform the institution's important societal task, that's to be a democratic pillar in our society in terms of both culture, language and societal debate. This is my vision, and also that it should be a channel for the whole country, with district offices and with a broad social anchored profile. But economic governance and order and a grip on technological development are prerequisites.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e180	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e183	I will not entirely let go of the question of trust in the board, because the council just said that she had not expressed distrust of the current board. In today's VG, State Secretary Roger Ingebreichsen answers the question ‘ – Do you trust the board that is now in the NRK after the leak accusations from Reve?’: “ – It says itself, if not they would not have been sitting there today.” Will Ellen Horn sign this statement of trust from his Secretary of State to the remaining board of the NRK, and if so, does it mean that she does not trust the statements made by the disfellowshipping Governor Torgeir Reve, that there must obviously be leakages from the sitting board? Can the Council of State have a government to run the country's largest media business, which is leaking like a sieve, and which is unable to find its role at all? It seems that the NRK is still living in a monopolistic process, a monopoly situation, rather than being an enterprise in a competitive position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e193	Leakages have been widely discussed and expanded into the media, and have been central to the discussion of Governor Reve's departure. But finding that people in this board have actively leaked information, I have no basis for doing so. In that case, I wouldn't have confidence, and it would be impossible to have persons with whom this has been documented on the board of the NRK. Leakage problems have been addressed carefully in the NRC. There has been a review of the procedures in relation to documents and internal procedures, and I have also underlined today to Governor Anne Carine Tanum that she must keep an eye on this. That's why I trust the board that is now sitting until I'm going to have an extraordinary general meeting next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e198	Anne Enger Lahnstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e201	I think we can quickly agree that the NRK is one of our most important social and cultural institutions and our most important media business. And then it's important that it works well, and that you have a government that can take on leadership in such a demanding time as the NRK is now inside. In connection with the previous board, which the Council of State therefore appointed for approx. six months ago, the Council of State stressed that there was a wide range of expertise in technology, economics, law and management in the new Governing Board. Taking into account the experience of the Council of State with that board of directors, and where has the board of directors gone, I find reason to ask what qualifications and requirements of competence will the Council of State feel there is a need in the board of the NRK, which is to lead the NRK in a demanding time and also find a new head?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e208	I registered that Anne Enger Lahnstein did not at all mention the word culture, and I would like to stress that the former Vice President of the Board, now head, Anne Carine Tanum, comes from the book industry and so by me – and I will believe by most – is considered part of the cultural sector, with its anchoring there. That being said, of course, culture and society are an important dimension for those who are going to sit on the board of the NRK. I want to emphasise that the Board of Directors will have a broad composition with the widest possible competence, and that hopefully we will get a broad range of knowledge on the board that is necessary, both in terms of culture, society, economy and new media and competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e215	An obvious misunderstanding: I certainly mean that I said cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e221	There is no reason for this. Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e226	In the December 2000 online newspaper, we read that broadcaster Einar Förde says that the NRK is too political. Is the Council of State in agreement with this, and in that case what will the Council of State do with it? There's a difference between being aware of things and not doing anything about it. The Head of the Broadcasting Board at the same time stated that the NRK before his time and also during his time had been too much slave of the license and thus of the political winners of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e231	I've been very clear that I think we have to take the consequence that the NRK is now an AS with a board that has the management of the NRK's business. But nevertheless, I would like to stress that, given that the NRC is a state-funded social institution, we cannot fail to be very clear that the Storting has an absolute responsibility to follow the fact that the NRK's activities are in line with the important role of society of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e236	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e239	I will first assist my good associate Anne Enger Lahnstein by saying that she mentioned culture in her post. Then I go back to the question to the Council of State. The Council of State is the owner of an AS. You can be a passive owner and an active owner. At a time when the Council of State itself has stressed that ownership involves understanding the digital revolution, how will the Council of State ensure that digital formation is also involved? In other words, how do you want to ensure, through governance and in other ways in the ownership function, that you represent the societal and cultural perspective that you have to be involved in when you're excited about technology, but not blinded by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e246	I very much agree with Dørum that you should not become a slave of the technology. My main idea in finding the right candidates to sit on the board of the NRK is precisely that they possess the technological and economic knowledge that is necessary, but also that they have the necessary ethical, social personalities there to ensure that the balance between these two dimensions is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e251	Øystein Djupedal – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e254	This exposure to the NRK shows the significant institution. The fact that the NRK is in deep crisis is probably beyond doubt. There's an idea for how the NRK will manage to reconcile the stock exchange and the cathedral, which is perhaps the NRK's most important challenge right now, namely to have two equalized bosses, such as after a lot of media houses and businesses. It has become the pattern in the major newspapers in Akersgata and also the pattern in many other media institutions. I have noticed with great surprise that the Minister of Culture has rejected such a solution. When you see the efforts of the previous board – and how difficult it has been – to get a new broadcasting director who combines these two considerations: having economic knowledge and also broad cultural and media knowledge – it shows that what many media companies have done is perhaps wise: that you have an editor who is responsible for content, and then you have others who run the money bag. My challenge to the Minister of Culture is: Will she reconsider this and give the new board the opportunity to see if this is perhaps a wise opportunity to bring the NRK into the new era and not into the old organisational pattern, which the old board obviously has been looking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e261	I thank the representative for the question and would like to clarify my reflection on this proposal. I'm very concerned that the broadcaster is the head and top manager of the NRK. That doesn't mean that I don't see very positively the possibility that the broadcaster has an assistant broadcaster, a director, but they shouldn't be at the same level. That's what I rejected, because I think that gives fuzzy control. I think the broadcaster has to be the top boss, but getting an assistant next to him, I think absolutely can be a good idea. There are no superhumans in this society, and I agree that it may seem that we are looking for a human being with so many attributes that it is impossible to find it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e268	The president assumes it's time to change the channel. Are Nose – to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e273	I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs if she does not like me also would like to have a cup of coffee on the plane if she flies home Friday afternoon, and if she has experienced, as I have done, that the airline Braatens does not serve coffee Friday afternoon, but, on the other hand, offers free wine and beer. Now this may be a small matter, but in an area where all small steps go in the wrong direction. As I see it, there is a difference between being able to pay for a box of beer on an internal plane and being offered free wine and beer in part as a first choice. Can the Minister of Social Affairs say anything about how widespread this is, and does the Minister of Social Affairs like this gesture?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e279	I fully agree with the representative Næss that a cup of coffee on the plane home on Friday afternoon makes itself absolutely excellent. The two Norwegian airlines that I usually travel with serve free coffee on Friday afternoon as well. They don't serve free beer and wine. It was new to me that some airlines do it, and I have to say that when I hear that the first choice is to be alcohol and not the usual, tea, coffee or mineral water.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e284	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that professionals in the field of drug protection have reacted strongly to the wine serving on the planes. I feel that it was not this Workers' Party that wanted to do so when, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, they pressed through the permission for wine-serving on domestic flights, and I would like to ask the Council of State if she would like to do something to intensify the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e289	As I said, this matter is new to me. I'm going to take the information with me and look at it back in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e294	There will be follow-up questions – Annelise Höegh.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e297	I have to say that it was new also to me that Braathens serves free wine and beer on the flights home on Friday night, but I think that was a very happy New Year's report on the private airline, which I hope the Council of State has not intended to interfere with and get them from. That they also serve free coffee, of course I have nothing against it. But if you're going to have a good Friday night, you might have more joy of wine and maybe also of beer than of coffee, because then you get to bed sooner. [[Laughter]] I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs has not intended to block the long political struggle Right has led, and that we finally got the Workers' Party on, that there should be not only beer, but also wine on domestic flights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e302	The changes that were made during the reign of the Workers' Party, namely that it was allowed to serve wine in addition to beer on domestic flights, we have no intention of doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e312	The President proposes that we close the service and move on to the next main question. - No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e315	I share the President's assessment that time may be in for both a cultural break and a coffee break. On that occasion, I address a question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. It is clear from today's Evening Post that his State Secretary's statement that it can be expected that the Government will publish its views for the Mjøs Committee's investigation as the conclusion has been reached, and long before the big business announcement announced in March of this year is presented. The State Secretary suggests that this is a somewhat unusual procedure, and I personally believe that this is a very unusual procedure. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he is no longer of the opinion that the importance of this reform is the whole and the context, as he himself said in the budget proposal for the autumn. Does this mean that it is no longer a whole reform, but that it can be cut into its individual components?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e322	The most important thing about the reform that we are going to propose for higher education in Norway is to ensure that students receive a good education, that there is quality in research, and that we spend the $15 billion in the best possible way. As the representative of Inge Wohnung is certainly well aware, the debate after the Mjøs Committee presented its position last summer has been extensive and focused on both the details and the overall nature of the reforms to come. I have recorded that the representative Wohnning has also taken an active part in that debate with a clear and well-defined position. It cannot be that the only person who cannot take part in that debate and who cannot have opinions on the reforms to come is the Council of State responsible in this area. Of course, I must also be able to take part in that debate and also, when I have concluded with regard to individual matters, be able to make views on it. The only thing I've yet concluded is that we're going to propose, and as the government is also behind, is a change in the degree structure from today's 4 plus 2 scheme to a bachelor and master model, where we get 3 years plus 2 years. It has been received with mixed reactions, and the debate is lively both in the newspapers and probably also in the various educational environments. It's healthy, it's good. That means that we get views on the different parts. But when the big message comes in March, we will have the overall overview and the comprehensive presentation that the representative is asking for. I want him to be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e331	Of course, I have nothing against the participation of the Council of State in the public debate. It was just supposed to be missing. What is the unusual procedure is the State Secretary announces in the Evening Post interview today, namely that the Government as such will present its conclusions as the conclusions have been drawn. But it's just not to participate in the public debate, because then you get the conclusions without any premise. As I see it, it will make it difficult for the Storting to handle the big business message when it comes. What makes me worried about this point is that we all know that if this big thing is to be able to deal with such a big thing as this, the time and the way is very, very scarce. I welcome the fact that this may complicate the process, by requiring further wide-ranging consultations when the Stortinget finally receives the Storing Message and can start working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e337	I find it very difficult to understand that more extensive consultations would be needed, for example. In fact, the representative's salary in good time before the Storing Message comes, knows parts of what the Government has concluded. On the contrary, there is a greater opportunity to discuss and debate the various parts of the proposals. When I am out giving talks on the major reforms that come into Norwegian higher education, I present the whole that the representative is asking for. I'm not just presenting the conclusions, but I'm going to make sure that the reasons for the various proposals are also properly presented, as well as the argument that we have that a new degree structure, a new governance structure, better education and greater quality requirements for higher education and research will provide an overall picture that ensures both quality and good use of resources, and that this country is at the forefront of higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e342	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e345	I also notice that there are now positions on higher education from both the Council of State and the Prime Minister. I understand that this is part of improving the efficiency and conversion of the public sector. It's highlighted several times. We in the Center Party agree that it is unfortunate that students spend a very long time in their studies, and we understand that it should be put up for an improvement in efficiency. Of course, we have not yet taken a decision on the degree structure – until we have received the message. But why are students taking so long? The answer is, of course, that it is too poor to finance studies. Then my question becomes Giske – since he has been playing with a lot of things, perhaps he can make some points of view: Will he take the initiative towards the State Loan Fund, which has now announced an increase in interest rates on student loans, will he take an initiative to possibly change the student loan policy, so that there is a policy-driven interest rate, as the student organisations have now addressed and sent letters about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e352	We now have a government loan fund scheme where interest rates follow the rest of the interest rate in Norway, so there is the most important thing to ensure an economic policy that keeps interest rates down. And that's where I think it's the budget that, among other things, The party representing Tingelstad in Stortinget has been involved in achieving for 2001 is a good contribution in this way. But that the interest rate itself makes the students study more, I'm not so sure is right, because the interest rate on the student loan comes first and foremost when you're finished studying. It's only when you're done studying, that interest starts running, and that's when you start paying. I think the most important thing for the students to study more is to make sure that the cost standard – the money the students have to live for while they are studying – is that you can be a full-time student, and that you don't have to sit in the cash register at Rimi or elsewhere when you're really going to be a student. After all, a lower level of interest rates would benefit all those who have been students, for example. My own study loan would then be considerably more reasonable to operate. But I'm not sure I'm the one who needs the financial help. Those are the students today who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e359	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e362	Before the question: I note that the Council of State will contribute to the public debate in a healthy way. I look forward to that with great anticipation. But when you participate in the public debate, you create expectations that the Storting should be able to have proper treatment, and you also create expectations that the results will be available. And since it's an election year, many will have expectations that they will be there before the election. Can the Council of State, with this initiative-rich concept, which he represents to the public guarantee that the Storting will be notified in early March to the Mjøs Committee, so that it is actually possible for the Storting to sort in a proper way the expectations created by the public debate and to deal with it before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e367	There were some who thought that it was relatively ambitious for the Government to deal with the whole of the Mjøs Committee's position, which came last summer, with the deadline for consultation in October, and so few to submit a notice that we would have dealt with it before the summer of 2001. But I thought that was necessary, because if we don't get it done in the spring, it'll be another year's delay before we can put the new reforms into practice. If we agree to that in the Stortinge in ours, for example. the degree structure is implemented from the autumn of 2002. If it is until the harvest we deal with it, we probably have to wait another year before we get it out of life – if it is adopted then. So I'm going to do everything I can to meet Mr. Dørum's request that we come early in March with the message. I also hope that we can make a message that takes care of the main lines and the general basic principles, and then we get to work on both in government and with matters for the Stortinget with more detailed questions as the process goes and the different main principles are to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e372	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e375	Unlike Wage, I believe there are many good reasons why the Council of State should take part in the debate on the future reform of higher education and higher education, so that is clarified. He has done so, and he has indicated that he has a great sense of the proposals on a new degree structure, that is. that we should go away from the former cand.mag. and main subject system that we have at Norwegian universities today, and move on to Bachelor's and Master's degrees. I have a question for the Council of State. In the Norwegian degree system there are many good elements. It lies a lot of good in the main subject, with a piece of research and independence, etc., and it is important that we are able to take care of these pieces. So my question is, what are the possibilities of a new degree structure for the state council to take care of the positive parts of the Norwegian system with a cand.mag. and a major degree, and does he see the possibility of combining this in a future degree system for Norwegian universities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e382	I hope that's exactly what we're going to do, to maintain the reputation and quality that the main subject in Norway actually has internationally, with a new degree structure. That is why we also need to keep the two-year depression in the proposal we are presenting at the master's degree. The different master degrees also have to have a good deal of depression in relation to research education, because we're going to need a lot of skilled researchers in the future. So I hope that by using the resources, we can better maintain the quality of the students we're training, even though some of the degrees get a shorter run. In some subjects, only 26–27 weeks a year is taught – a year of 52 weeks. Although you have a long break in summer schooling in Norway, I believe that the academic year for many students can be better used. Better follow-up, more participation, more contact with scientific staff and greater study intensity will help maintain quality, while using resources more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e393	I have a question for the Social Minister. We have known that for a long time, and now we have received new evidence: there are over 20,000 children in Norway growing up in families who have had income below the poverty line for over ten years. That's the brother part of childhood that. We have known this before, and the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission have saved the Christmas spirit in many homes. There's a great shame in the world's richest country, and it's a big shame that the government doesn't do anything about it. I see that there may be three reasons why it doesn't happen: either the government won't, or they don't believe in the investigations, or the government is powerless. Why does the Minister of Social Affairs not take immediate action to improve the situation of these poor children's families?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e400	I'm actually very pleased with the big focus that's been on the poor in our community in December, and I hope it stays through the year. We've had different numbers that have gone through, and the last ones, that came from Econ, estimate that it's about. 20,000 children living in long-term poverty. The reasons for this are relatively many, but they have at least the same thing in common that it is the parents who are poor. In our society, there is a expectation for us that we will live by our own work. When you don't make it, we have arrangements for those who are sick, and we have arrangements for those who don't get work, and then we have a arrangement for those who fall outside for short periods and are not adapted to the other two. That's the social welfare system. It has never been meant to be a living thing over time. What we're seeing now is that those who receive social assistance over time have a complex problem picture. There may be health problems, drug problems, low education or very poor links with the labour market. It has been shown that it is difficult to disconnect them from the social welfare benefits of a single measure. However, what the Government plans to do within a very short time frame is to provide guidance standards for social assistance. We already have projects to help long-term unemployed people get back to work in several municipalities, and we have an action for the homeless because the problem for a good part of them is also the housing situation, it is too expensive to live in cities until they manage themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e411	I record that the Minister of Social Affairs is giving the same vague answers now as before, and I therefore want to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Education, because in school too, children are reminded of their poverty every single day and put outside because they cannot pay for school trips, cultural offers or anything else for which self-payment is required. This is unacceptable because the school is a place where all children are to meet and be equivalent. What will the Council do to ensure that the entire school offer is free, and that the school should be a place where the child can go and get an equivalent and complete offer and leave the wallet at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e416	Section 2-1 of the Training Act clearly states that primary school should be free of charge, and it should be for everyone. We have seen a worrying use of prowess in various activities in the school that are to be included in normal learning and what is covered by the curriculum. This is contrary to the law, and that is why we need to ensure that we are able to identify the scope of this kind of self-payment, so that we can respond to those who do not follow the rules. That is why I have taken the initiative that we should now have a full review of it and get an overview of the use of self-payments in school. The numbers we have per. Today, years are coming back, and we need to know what the extent is, what happens, so that we can also react, because it is totally unacceptable that some children are excluded from part of ordinary education because of the introduction of self-payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e421	There will be follow-up questions – Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e424	The Christian People's Party shares SV's concern for the 20,000 children growing up in poverty. At the same time, we know that from 1 January this year, the social welfare period for lone dependants has been shortened to three years. The Christian People's Party believes that the disappearance of transitional aid can lead to even more children experiencing a difficult financial situation. In my home country, East-Agder, I am made aware that a large part of the lonely caregivers have neither work nor are under education. What measures can they expect? The group of lone dependants is a diverse group, which requires flexible solutions. Can the Minister for Social Affairs think of a more flexible transitional allowance for parents who need more time to go out in full employment, for the benefit of their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e431	When the transitional benefit was changed in 1997 in the context of the treatment of the welfare notification, a period of 10 years to a period of three years, possibly with a two-year supplement for education, was passed. One of the most important reasons for this was precisely the workline policy, the longer you are at home and away from work, the more likely you are never to come back. The fact that you never get back to work will contribute to more poor children when this benefit falls away. That is why, when it was amended, considerable efforts were made on networking projects among the lone carers, so that they would be inspired and helped to start training or get into work on the day the transitional aid ended. We will take this further, but I will also look at whether we need to make changes to the labour regulations in order to address just the problem that the representative is dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e436	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e439	On behalf of the Central Party, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to step up his efforts and move from all the descriptions to concrete actions. It is also on behalf of all the parents who are now struggling to get their everyday lives to go together for their children. It will be two years this spring since the Equalization message was produced in Stortinget. There is no ex post evidence of a discrepancy in relation to the descriptions that were already in place. there are two groups in a hurry for action. It is those of the single caregivers who are having trouble getting into work or getting into school, and it is they who are incapacitating parents. I expect the Minister of Social Affairs, in connection with the action plan now to be presented, to make improvements both in relation to the child supplement for disabled people, which goes straight to disadvantaged parents, and in relation to greater flexibility in the transitional benefit. I'm asking for a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e446	I can confirm that we are going to look in particular at the situation of children with regard to the Action Plan on Social and Economic Security, and it is natural to address both areas addressed by the representative, Kleppa. I can confirm that. In addition, when the guidance standards for social assistance come, we will take particular account of families with children there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e451	Vidar Kleppe - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e455	I think the Labour Party government has done little about the attitude they had at least before they reentered the government offices, that the excesses such in primary school could not be accepted at all. When one sees that the municipality after the municipality introduces a proportion more than what the law allows them to do, my question is – and the question has to go to the Council of State.Giske: When does the government council expect that the review that he will carry out with regard to the basic school law and the excesses that a person takes around in the municipality of Norway is complete? And when will he follow it up concretely by issuing a decree and notifying all the municipalities that such is not the case with the Council of State? Because it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e460	The President has some doubts as to whether the follow-up question is linked to the main question. But if the Council of State Giese wants to answer, then the occasion is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e463	That must be absolutely so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e468	I want to make sure that review is ready during the spring, but I would also like to stress that there is no need for new decrees or new decisions in particular. The law is clear – the school should be free. The elements to be covered for the implementation of the curriculum shall be free of charge and accessible to all. In all my political activity as a State Council, I have just been concerned that we should have a common public elementary school for all children here in Norway who want to go there, which is free and accessible to everyone. I am not quite sure whether it is entirely in line with what the Progress Party has in its programmes in relation to the schoolwork in Norway, but my view is that we should have a public common school that is free of charge for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e473	Annelise Höegh – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e476	I want to go back to the Minister of Social Security and the situation of those who come to social security and who have problems with their expenses. I got an enquiry yesterday from a carpenter who had been dissatisfied after a fall from a barley. He had tried recovery, but it did not work. His situation was that he had a house-banked house with a rent of only NOK 1800, and he saw the need to go to the social office to get help. But there he was refused because he owned the house himself. He would then live on a disability allowance of NOK 7 000 a month. Help to pay the rent would increase his wealth, he was told. But if he sold the dwelling, he took up a rental and got a rent of NOK 3 500 – 4000 or what it had to be, yes, then the social office would pay his rent, because then he wasn't the one who got increased wealth from it, but the one who owned the apartment he had to live in. This is crazy – a whole mole policy. Will the Minister for Social Affairs look at this and consider changing the rules on the payment of social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e483	The President still has some doubts about the device of the follow-up question in relation to the main question. With regard to the description of the Molbo policy, the President assumes that this is not a particular parliamentary speech, but if the Council of State now wants to respond, the occasion is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e486	It's quite popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e491	As I said in my first answer, the price of dwellings is absolutely essential for whether a family becomes poor or not. When it comes to whether the social office is going to cover social benefits for people who have their own housing, I think it should. Most people in Norway actually own their own home, and that should be the case. So if the representative sends the example to me, I'll deal with it in the department. As a matter of fact, I can't take this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e498	Rolf Rikvam - Last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e501	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, and I can promise the President that it has close links to the main question asked by Karin Andersen. A few years ago, a survey was carried out to show that the proportions in primary schools were about the same. One hundred million. kr. They are likely to be significantly higher today. A study was also carried out in Hordaland, which showed that approximately 15 pst. by primary school students do not participate in camp school because they cannot afford it. They cannot attend camp because their parents do not have the money to pay the stay. We have single classes where up to 25 pst. By the students they say that they cannot attend camp because they simply do not have the money to pay the bill. Is this a concern of the Council of State? If we assume that this is the national average, that this is comprehensive for the whole country, I think it is so serious that the Council of State should do something quite immediately to prevent this happening, and make sure that the excess demanded is not required into the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e511	In the case of camp school stays, the scheme is that education should be free of charge, but it is possible to take a special share in relation to what covers food expenses, etc. The assumption in respect of the clay school grant is that it shall ensure that the education part is free of charge. We proposed in the State budget that the clay school grant should be included in the general subsidy to the municipalities. It didn't join the Stortinget, and we kept an ear-marked clay school grant. But it really also means that municipalities can implement the part of the curriculum that is about outdoor life, etc., in a different way to that of camp schooling. There's nothing about compulsory camp schooling in the curriculum. Knowledge dissemination is to be carried out and, as some municipalities, it makes sense to implement it through a camp school stay. But the payment part is just about the other costs that are beyond education. I'm very concerned that we get a free school, and that's among other things. And that's why we've proposed free textbooks in high school, so we're constantly approaching a school where the expenses are as low as possible for students and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e518	We then go to today's last main question – Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e521	I have a question to the state council Trond Giske. A new drag shakes Oslo. Chief Anstein Grangedal goes out and shouts at the parents as those who are responsible for their children and young people. Visepolitimester Andresen goes out and wants to work with religious and political leaders in the immigrant communities. This is correct, and it supports the Progress Party. But there is another actor in this picture who, according to his own law, is responsible for the ethical formation of children and young people, and that's the school. And it says in the school law that the school is going to make them "a fun and independent person in the world and society." What concrete action will the Council of State take to respond to future actions of this type?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e528	In my view, safe and good growth conditions, a good school and a community with different ethnic backgrounds in a common school are those things that allow us to combat recrimination and violence. I think that it's some people coming to school and feeling that they're failing, falling outside, is a relatively safe source of recruiting for reindeer crime and making sure that ever-new kids end up in trouble. That's why I want to have a school that facilitates all children and young people, where they can go together, which, as a matter of fact, also relates to the previous question, is free of charge, regardless of parental income, where you learn our language well, where you can succeed, and where you can get adapted training, so that you can actually get your legs on and out of work and get on your own. I think these are basic assumptions. But then it is important that we facilitate such measures throughout the period of growth. We must have a good kindergarten. That is why we must still have state subsidies for kindergartens, which I have registered that the Ursula Evies party is not a member of. We have to have a good community economy that can ensure that the school has the quality we want, and we have to have competent and good teachers who can be role models for the students, who can organize, make demands and set limits, but also give them the competence and quality of education that we need. All of this belongs together. In addition, we need to provide leisure services, to facilitate sport, music and cultural activities for children and young people, who also need an active municipality and country. Here, I believe that the whole thing we have in our policies in these areas is what is needed to facilitate good growth conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e537	These young people we hear of have grown up in Norway and have thus benefited from the Norwegian school — and in many cases also from the Norwegian kindergarten, with strong subsidisation — and should therefore have a common understanding of justice and wrong, in common with most people. At the same time, we see — including in the Newspaper of yesterday — that millions of rolls into actions that, according to both the Nordahl and the Befring committees, have little or no use. We know that it is the teacher's competence and the competences of kindergarten staff that are very crucial here. My specific question is: What new measures will the Council of State take?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e546	We have to separate two things. The drug crime we have in the capital today cannot be solved with kindergartens or with school interventions. It has to be solved by police, by investigation and by tough action against those who are being taken for that type of crime. This is what the Minister of Justice is doing to implement, with new measures, including: more police in the streets and less use of resources for bureaucracy and more for active police work. But while we're doing that, we have to make sure that we also do preventive work and facilitate that, in a few years' time, those who today are not five or seven or ten years old will not enter the same thread culture. Here are grants for recreational clubs, grants for activity in the growing-up environment, a good school, etc. the overall grip that we have to do. It is true that the representative Evje points out that we have had a review of the various measures to evaluate what is useful and what is not useful. And it's true, as the representative Evje says, that there are many of the measures that have not had the big effect. What we have to do is, of course, concentrate resources on the measures that are effective, and spend less money on those that are not effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e553	There will be follow-up questions – Elsa Scarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e556	I'd like to follow up on this. The CRL subject, Christianity with religion and vision of life, is one of the subjects that can be of great importance in this field. There are just themes about ethics and morality, which are a platform for dialogue and for identity for all children, and where people are made aware of living rules. But there's a need for teachers who are trained in this, who can be safe in the subject, who are quite new. It turns out that for this particular subject, continuing training for teachers is poor. What can the Council of State do to improve precisely this, so that teachers can feel secure in this new subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e565	I'm a little uncertain as to whether the CRL profession has any direct link to the law crime in Oslo. But I fully agree with the questioner's main point, namely that the CRL profession provides security with regard to identity, and gives acceptance to other cultures and knowledge of different religions and life views in Norway. I think that knowledge and that platform are important for you to feel accepted and approved yourself, but at the same time have a tolerant and acceptable relationship with other religions. We have become a multicultural and multireligious society. We also have to take the consequences of this in school. We have to learn about each other's religions and cultures and have tolerance and acceptance for it. Then it's important with good teachers, who can teach it. We've taken the consequences of this in teacher training. The KRL field has an important place there. We're going to spend $25 million in 2001. kr for teacher training courses, and it would be natural to provide further training in the CRL field. In addition, during the spring, we are going to provide a big message reviewing the CRL subject in the light of the evaluations that have been carried out and the experience that one has had with the subject so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e574	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e580	For the sake of order, the President will recall what he said at the beginning of the meeting regarding the practice of today's Question Time. There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Kristin Halvorsen. Question 4, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. Question 6, from the representative Mr Børge Brende to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. Question 9, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 13 and 16 from Jan Tore Sanner and Svein Ludvigsen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left. In addition, question 10 fell away from the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, to the Minister of Culture, when the questioner was not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e608	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘From the moment when Storting manages the long-term proposal for spring, we need a thorough debate on what kind of defence Norway needs in time. The defense manager won't comment on this. The more important it becomes that the officers take an active part. But they feel like they've got a mouth basket. Will the Council of State see to it that the officers can freely participate in the debate on what kind of defence Norway needs in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e617	I have not seen the situation there until the officer's corps have been placed on the oral basket so that they cannot express themselves on the country's defences. I read quite extensive bunkers daily with newspaper clips that indicate the opposite. I think that's positive. With regard to the defence study 2000, in particular, there is a difference. Here, a large number of senior and local military commanders have made their contributions to the Chief of Defense, who have then made an overall balance and sent it to me. Then the same military chiefs can not participate in the debate on their own recommendations as freshly as after the product, the Defence Study. It would be easy for officials, in this case military officials, to be free in the public domain to question the results of a closed procedure in which they have participated. It is not advisable either in civil or military office and has the principal aspects that I have mentioned. I repeat that there are officers who have largely conducted the internal and professional military investigation of the defence chief's recommendations to the ministry. Employee organisations have been involved in the process. As a professional group, the officer corps have thus had ample opportunity to express their views on the content of the Defence Study 2000. Furthermore, officers’ organisations remain strongly involved in the public debate. Traditionally, the concept of loyalty is high in the officer's corps. However, very well known, there are no legal barriers that specifically restrict the right of the officer corps to participate in the public debate also on defence. General guidelines in terms of boundaries in relation to what I have just said are difficult to give. Everyone can use their own healthful discretion. For my part, I have faith that the officer corps will participate in the social debate in a constructive and dignified manner for the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e628	Kåre Willoch has, in a chronicle in the Evening Post recently on a principle basis, gone through the relationship between the right of expression and the obligation of expression for bureaucracy. He has concluded that there is a distinction between those who are added to the department and those who are outside the office, and he says, among other things. following: ‘In a democracy, the entire people are entitled to have matters informed as best they can, and when so much of the expertise is employed in the State, they are not only entitled to say so, but are obliged to do so.’ He also concludes as follows: ‘An area of defence policy is another area which highlights the need for freedom of expression on the part of the civil service. It would be extremely unfortunate if officers should feel that they should not express anything but legitimate opinions on military matters.» I thought this was a clear speech, and I perceive it so that the Council of State is also very much in agreement with this. The situation is that we are constantly getting messages here that indicate that officers who are happy in their careers are very careful to express themselves. I interpret the council so that they can do this freely, and I'm happy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e643	Now it's a little bit variable to what extent former County Willoch is an authority in the Right on all questions, but I don't have much principleal counter-representation against what he's said here – I think it's right that the officer participates in a public debate on the Defense. But it is clear that when military chiefs at a high level take part in a closed procedure towards an overall position in a very concrete case, or a group of specific cases, it is not as topical that the same general majors and brigades, if they are possibly dissatisfied with the overall balance, go out against the head of defence. I understand that. In my opinion, there is a parallel to matters in the civil service, where, as the government council, we do not take it for granted that Heads of Bureau and Heads of Mission and others participate in a public discussion. And here the distinction is not quite clear, I feel, between the political leadership of the departments and the office on the one hand, and the head of defense and his closest one on the other. There are some parallel principles. But I repeat: I want the officer on a general basis to take part in the debate on defence. But there's something else than to "kill" the head of defense at a concrete point where one disagrees with his balances.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e650	If we are to be able to take sensible decisions here in Stortingen, we need to know the professional point of view independently of political tendency, but we also need to know whether there are different professional points of view in this area. If we're not familiar with it, we don't have a satisfactory basis for what we're going to do here in the house. When it comes to the defence study 2000, it is essentially about rationalising the peace structure, and I understand that the fact that it has been a process can affect this to a certain extent. But what defence study 2000 doesn't say is what defence Norway needs in the future. That debate is about to enter into, and I understand it so that the Council of State says quite clearly that Norwegian officers can freely participate in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e657	I refer to what I have said, and I think it is quite a coincidence in the views of the representative and the undersigned. At the same time, it is clear that I do not believe either of us, either as a member of the Defence Committee or as a former member of the Defence Committee or as a State Council, feel that we do not have access to views of high professional military. It's not the same thing as they write newspaper articles every day, but I feel that I have good access to the underlying points of view, just as I have the experience that lead officers in contact with the defense committee, to mention the special body, are very open in their views. And I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e667	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e670	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: «According to Stavanger Aftenblad 3 January 2001 many Norwegian soldiers who participated in the Gulf War 10 years ago wear health problems. Some of these plagues are called Golf Syndrome. Soldiers from other countries, such as the United States and Canada, are also known to have similar plagues. What will be done for the Norwegian veterans who participated in the Gulf War, and what will be done to ensure that the same is not done with the sun data that participates in the Balkans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e679	I have, as I know, asked to make my own statement on this in the plenary next week of Storting, but I still ask for understanding to go something beyond the timeframe on this occasion too, since there is a great general interest, naturally, around this. I share the concerns of both the representative of Langeland and the representative of Halvorsen in the light of the information that has emerged in the media recently. The concern is particularly related to any health damage caused by contamination following the use of depleted uranium ammunition. That is why the Ministry of Defence has asked the head of defence to carry out a medical evaluation, including an assessment of the need for a comprehensive medical follow-up of all personnel concerned. Such a study may, where appropriate, be carried out in cooperation with other countries. We have also asked the Defence Command to assess whether a comparative study of a representative sample of personnel should be conducted. The Chief of Defence has now initiated the provision of health studies to all personnel who have served since 1990. I noticed that this was well received by the relevant civil servants' organisations. After the Gulf War, the Defence Sanitation carried out a survey of Norwegian personnel. Some of the personnel referred to airway plagiarism or memory failure. Details of studies, including: However, in cooperation with Glitrælinikken and the Rikshospitalet, did not reveal any morbidity. The health of the defense informs us that American research shows that about 10 pst. of the 700000 persons participating in ‘Desert Storm’, have subsequently been identified with various types of damage or diseases which may be related to the service in the Gulf. We are not aware of the extent to which leukemia may have developed. As can be seen from the Evening Post today, the State Institute for Public Health has had professional responsibility for the review of both this, that is, the American, and other professional analyses. This is now being followed up in cooperation with the Cancer Register and the State Radiation Protection Agency. Norway, by representatives of the former Bondevik government, addressed issues of potential adverse effects related to the use of depleted uranium during the Kosovo conflict in NATO, as one of a few countries. In 1999, NATO made the defence aware that there could be a danger to different types of pollution in Kosovo, and action was taken to prevent health damage among Norwegian personnel. This concerns air pollution, lead contamination, radiation hazards and potential pollution hazards associated with depleted uranium. Air pollution measurements were carried out in cooperation with the Norwegian Institute for Air Research. The samples showed values below the civil limit values. Because of lead contamination, blood lead values were measured in the soldiers before, during and after the stay in the contaminated area. The measurement results showed values well below civil limit values. More NATO countries, including Norway, has made measurements of radioactive radiation in the Kosovo operational area. It's as far the defense knows, not found any areas with radiation levels above natural background radiation. The depleted uranium represents a weak source of radiation. Unused ammunition and metal fragments in the ground do not constitute a significant radiation hazard. In cases where the ammunition is powdered, small radioactive particles are formed. The intake of such dust by breath and contaminated food may cause irradiation of viscera. Therefore, Norwegian KFOR forces were equipped with intensity gauges and person dosimeters, and the Norwegian veterinary team, which in this context are military nutrition experts, was equipped with an advanced gamma spectrometer. In addition, a separate radiomedical sampling unit was developed in cooperation with the State Radiation Protection Agency, which was made available to the Norwegian force. The above, which I have now been through, shows that measures have been taken by the Norwegian side to prevent any health damage based on the information that has been available at all times. As for the flow of information internally in the defence, in my statement in Stortinget next week I will come back to this. As I see it, the Norwegian side has sought to ensure the security of personnel for our forces in Kosovo on the basis of a precautionary principle. I hope that the actions that have been implemented have helped to reduce the health risk that Norwegian personnel may have been exposed to. Let there be no doubt that the safety of personnel is – and shall always be – the highest priority in this type of military operation. The UN Environment Programme has launched a monitoring of depleted uranium as a result of previous military activities. The survey also includes the use of this type of weapon in the Norwegian operating area. NATO, in cooperation with the United Nations, will do its utmost to clarify the root causes. I am open to consider further measures from the Norwegian side. In a few days' time, NATO military sanitizers will meet to assess the situation. I find it natural to await the outcome of this meeting before considering further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e708	I thank the Minister for the answer. On the SV side, we are pleased that extensive health studies are now available for those who have participated in these missions and may have been exposed to depleted uranium, but we find it very critical that it only comes now. There are examples of service staff who have approached them, without having been taken seriously, over a decade. SV has been dealing with these questions for a long time. We think it is alarming that we are now so surprised at what emerges about possible health and environmental plagues, both for military personnel and for the civilian population in the areas concerned. On 7 July, SV addressed former State Councillor Dagfinn Højbrätten and received a reply that there were no indications that Norwegian personnel had been exposed to levels of depleted uranium in Kosovo that would pose any health risks. Looking back, does the Council of State consider this to be correct information?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e719	I find it difficult to assess it that concrete. I believe representatives of the then government responded as best they could and based on the medical recommendations that came, among other things. from the institutions I mentioned in my initial answer. I have no reason to believe that information has been misjudged or misjudged at the political level of the former government. In this way, I will not give any ammunition to the representative at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e724	It's quite strange in this case, because the answer that the Høybråt at the time came a week after the Defence Command had been warned by the General Staff of the U.S. Defense about contact between personnel and vehicle bombed with depleted uranium and projectiles right away. And not only that, it's also such that the state council Tore Tønne in this government as late as November 21, 2000, less than two months ago, repeated the answer that the state council Høybråten gave more than a year earlier. It is therefore very strange that the information that is now available in the media, which we can document, has been known in the ministry, is causing great surprises now and has not led to any action in the past. It is also known that the warning received by the forces serving in Kosovo has not been consistent and somewhat post-entry, although the US Army and other forces have had completely different pre-regulations and have been informed of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e729	It follows from my answer that we are very keen to look at the flow of information both internally between the NATO countries and between the respective military authorities of each NATO country, the departments and all the relevant bodies, and I would be the first to complain about some government councils, whether by one government or another, have expressed themselves on an uninformed basis. But I would like to go further into the seams before I saw to say that I signed the representative's version of the story. That gives us ample opportunity to come back to next week, and I like to thank you for the recording as a warning about what needs to be given a satisfactory answer when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e737	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The development and modernisation of trade in goods and services is subject to strong restrictions. There is a stoppage for new buildings and an extension of the mall. Some central urban areas are excluded from this scheme, but the trade in many of these is now the equivalent of 24 pst. VAT on parking. In addition, the new fee will be 10 pst. on new buildings and modernisation. Does the Council believe that the framework conditions for the development of these important industries are good enough, or will they help to improve them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e746	The objective of industrial policy is to contribute to increased value creation in order to achieve overall objectives of well-being and employment. The government will facilitate, on a broad basis, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy. Business must be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the future. This requires a business policy that stimulates innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship. We want a resilient business that works under good framework conditions. This applies to the entire industry, including the commercial and service industries. The national policy provision for a temporary stoppage for shopping centres outside central parts of cities and agglomerations was established at kgl. Resolution of 8 January 1999 based on the Planning and Building Act and promoted by the Ministry of Environment. The temporary provision has a duration of up to five years and will then be replaced by sub-schemes for centre development and retail trade. This implies a significant regional responsibility for the management of the scheme. The aim of this provision is to facilitate stronger regional coordination of policies for the establishment and expansion of major purchasing centres. The aim is to strengthen existing urban and urban centres and to prevent increased car dependence. The long-term objective of the scheme is to achieve more sustainable and robust urban and urban development. However, exceptions to the scheme have been made in practice on the basis of local discretion, including: for stores dealing with groups of goods in demand, such as: garden centres, and in the case of the sale of cars such as wood and major construction products. From 1 July 2001, a general basis for VAT obligations on the turnover of both goods and services is introduced. Renting of parking spaces for parking activities will also fall under this scheme. A general duty on services will make legislation simpler and more transparent, and it will also be more consistent with the legislation of other countries. VAT is one of the main sources of funding for welfare services in our country. Services are also an ever-increasing part of our consumption, and in order to avoid any confusion in the revenue from VAT, it is necessary that the turnover of services is also captured by this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e757	I thank you for your answer. It's the whole picture that scares me a lot when it comes to the framework conditions for trade and service. The list of deteriorations is longer than the one I got space for in the question. We've got an extra electricity charge, we've got an equation value of fixed property that's increased by over 25 pst. In two years' time, we've got reduced depreciation rates. Depreciation rates shall deduct taxable profit and reflect the deterioration in value that occurs. My family and I have been trading goods in rural areas for over a hundred years, and we have always had a long-term perspective. With the new 1 pst depreciation rates. of the balance, it will be 418 years before we have been deducted from all expenditure on the ignition of income, when it is due to this construction. This means that if my ancestors had been as early out there as in 1583 to build the house, we would have to cancel the rest today. Do the state councils think these bets on top of the others are reasonable? Is it consistent with the intentions of the law and good framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e768	Now perhaps the discussion about the general charging system went over to the wrong government council. What is clear, at least, is that our business life, the Norwegian business life, is actually doing very well, and they're making a formidable effort. At the same time, business depends on good welfare arrangements. There has been some background to the introduction of the VAT system on the whole service side when the traditional industry is being reduced, precisely to ensure that we have incomes for our welfare systems, which once again also benefit business, and which they often express themselves may be the reason why the company is just establishing itself here, because we are going to have a part of what concerns quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e775	Of course, whether the question has been asked to the court or to the wrong state council can be discussed. My background is that this and several industries feel surrounded by several different sizes, several different departments. We have a rapid change in our business, and as the government itself said in its answer, we want a resilient business. But when cities and urban areas become the scene of a ceasefire, when the cities, as the Council of State says, will be strengthened by this legislation, VAT will be imposed on parking, which means that they will have poorer conditions of competition, and when rural and the rest of the country will have the framework conditions to which they I have referred, both in terms of the depreciation rate and in terms of the cost of the equation, will I repeat my question, which I did not feel I had the answer to: Does the Council of State think that the conditions are good enough, or will the Council of State help to improve the conditions for the important industries of trade and service? We should remember that the framework conditions for our trade in goods and for our service industries are a very important element when we talk about getting competitive prices in Norway, both on goods and on services. And here I thought it was very much done that we should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e782	With the increased globalisation of our economy, it is clear that Norway cannot have a very different overall framework than other countries. We are totally dependent – not least our export industry, but also much of what is now in goods and services – on our being able to compete on equal terms. There will now also be a review of our tax systems, which became part of the agreement concluded between the centre parties and the workers' party government. But at the end of the day, with regard to the cessation of establishment introduced by the previous government, it was precisely to ensure that there was coordination, so that in the case of new large establishments, sites were not completely depleted. It is important to play a team here, and that is exactly what is going to happen when this scheme expires after a period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e792	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e795	I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘More shipwrecks, with the support of ‘John R’ outside Troms as the last, put the search light on the monitoring of shipping along the Norwegian coast. In the near future, Russia will start transporting crude oil and nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast with a high risk of damage and pollution. The defence has a coastal radar network that can be used for the surveillance of navigational guides, but this is not being used for civil purposes. Can the Council of State envisage the creation of a specially supervised head of navigation for this ship’s traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e804	Let me first say that I understand the concern behind the question from the representative Bastesen. I agree that it is important to establish prevention measures that can reduce the risk of accidents. I would like to stress that it is important that we use the sea as a transport route and that we facilitate this. Maritime transport is an important alternative and, in some places, the only option for transport. However, all forms of transport involve the risk of accidents. Preventive and deterrent measures must be seen in the light of both the scope and nature of transport as well as geographical and climatic conditions. In order to promote and ensure maritime transport as an environmentally friendly mode of transport, preventive measures of a different nature are necessary. With regard to the supervision of the navigation manager, three traffic centres are currently established. These are: Oslofjorden traffic centre in Horten, which monitors Oslofjorden, Brevik traffic centre, which monitors the entrance to Grenland in Telemark, and Fedje traffic centre, which monitors traffic to and from Sture and Mongstad in Hordaland. In addition, under construction, we have a traffic centre on White Island in Rogaland, which is expected to be completed during 2002. The Coast Guard Station shall operate monitoring and enforcement of navigation rules through traffic centres. The aim is to provide the necessary information and navigation assistance to vessels operating the waters covered by the central traffic centres. We need to continuously assess the need for water monitoring based on the development of ship traffic. Today’s traffic centres are established in areas where the need for traffic centres has so far been demonstrated. The establishment of traffic monitoring to and from Russia should be assessed in the light of the traffic situation and the environmental threat it represents. The Ministry of Fisheries therefore took an initiative in the autumn of 2000 in relation to the problem raised by the representative Bastesen. We are now identifying the extent to which the expansion of the oil industry in North Russia can get. This gives us a basis for assessing how much shipping can become. In this context, we also need to consider the information on the transport of nuclear waste in the same area. My answer to the representative Bastesen's question is therefore that we are already monitoring the traffic we can predict from today's information. When this information is available, we will need to consider what measures might be taken to protect the coast from shipwrecks. One instrument may be the establishment of traffic monitoring. In this context, in my view, the possibility of coordinated use of the total Norwegian traffic monitoring resources should be assessed. Traffic monitoring must also be seen as a precautionary measure in the context of preparedness to limit the level of damage caused in the event of accidents. In the case of State oil protection in particular, the Minister for the Environment will address this in his reply to the representative Svein Ludvigsen during the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e819	It is possible that the Minister of Fisheries was as surprised as I was that the question ended with him. However, the issue included the possibility of regulating ship traffic carrying dangerous goods along the coast, not the coast, i.e. outside the baseline. The question was therefore the coin of the Minister for Food and Trade, but since the Minister for Fisheries has already answered, I would like to ask a few additional questions. The regulation regulating the so-called approved inland waterway traffic controllers falls within the jurisdiction of the Defence. This regulation is related to the provision on compulsory unemployment. Vessels covered by the regulation are permitted to sail outside the approved fairways if pilots are used. However, exemptions from this requirement often need to be granted. There is a lack of pilots with certificates for those areas outside the normal link. This is, of course, done for nutritional reasons, but it is obvious that this has a significant impact on environmental safety. What is the status in this area? And what does it take to possibly improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e833	Of course, we have a continuous assessment of the need we have for unloading along the coast. We believe that the system that is established, with evidence of fairway combined with the use of loose, provides a satisfactory solution in the vast majority of situations. However, we will continue to assess whether we are making good use of these resources and whether safety can be improved by making better use of them. Among other things, we'll look at the system of unloading, whether it's as effective as it can be, or whether an improvement in this can lead to an even greater exploitation of the unloading capacity that we have. But I agree with the representative Bastesen that the competence of the pilots in the conditions along our coast is very important to use in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e838	My last question is also a request to the Minister of Defence. In the context of the suspension of the Coastal Management Committee, defence was given a mandate in 1995 to establish a coastal preparedness and action management organisation. This was intended to give the Defence Command sufficient authority to maintain first line preparedness on behalf of the other departments. That is to say, the defence command was to be given the power to act pending the deployment of the emergency response apparatus to the responsible station. In this context, a separate plan has apparently been established, which was implemented a few years ago. Is it not the case that the first line preparedness agency should also be responsible for resource coordination? I would also like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Defence for a copy of that plan, unless it is graduated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e847	I also agree with the Bastisen that there is a need to coordinate the efforts made to ensure that we have a good preparedness, and to ensure that responsibility is allocated so that things are implemented when necessary. I can assure you that in a very short time, the relevant state councils will meet to sum up the situation that we have experienced after the unfortunate accidents that we have had on the coast for the last time. Then we will consider whether the system established and normally functioning properly should be modified or otherwise corrected in order to ensure coastal safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e855	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘I am aware that the overall responsibility for state properties in Bjørvika has now been added to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. In the past, it has been stated that an overall development company for Bjørvika, with all state and municipal property in the area, will quickly be created. How is the start of the company planned and when is it established?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e864	The government wants to facilitate the development of the Bjørvika area for Oslo, with the positive ringing effects this can have for the city, for the region and for the country. An important consideration behind the Government's commitment is the desire to optimise the conditions for the construction of new opera in the area. Contributions from all landowners in the area are, as established in the National Transport Plan for the period 2002-2011, a prerequisite for the full financing of the lower tunnel under Bjørvika and thus the realisation of urban development. The government has recently, through the examination of the case, provided guidance for further work on the matter by the State. In this context, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has taken over the responsibility of the State for coordinating the development of the area of the Ministry of Environment. The Ministry is currently preparing the necessary material as a basis for discussions and negotiations with the landowners in the area with a view to forming a joint development company for the Bjørvika area. Before this pre-processing is completed, it is too early to say anything about how the work of starting up the company should be put in practice. I would like to clarify that the State as such should not involve itself in the obligations of this company. The purpose of the company will be to operate with general urban development in the Bjørvika area, in addition to any state landowner wishing to engage on a commercial basis, such as: NSB Property. The Ministry is working to get started well and hopefully conclude negotiations on such a company during the first six months or at the beginning of the second six months of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e875	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am somewhat surprised that it takes so long to clarify the assumptions of a company, considering that the work has been going on for almost three years now, and that it is soon a year since I asked Minister of Environmental Protection Bjerke about this. But leave it. The central point in this case is that it is untraditional that all properties should be viewed in the context of the use of added value for infrastructure purposes. I think I would encourage the Council of State to engage personally in this, because I don't think the systems themselves carry that kind of modernity in their thinking. So I want to ask a supplementary question to the Council of State: Can the Council of State confirm – just like Council of State Mountain in its time, because I perceived it as being so – that when the company is established, no matter what part of the state that is part of the company, will the State speak with one voice for its property interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e886	It is precisely the intention of establishing this development company that the State should have the opportunity through the various actors to coordinate its overall efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e891	I see this as a positive and clarifying answer, and I'm going to ask my other supplementary question: The crucial thing here is that the state and the municipality of Oslo, which in practice owns all the land in the area, act together. I myself wish – and hope that the Council of State will do its utmost – to have the company set up in the first six months. I think it is important for further work on the national transport plan. But to make a contribution, I ask the following questions: Is the Council of State prepared with the Municipality of Oslo in the near future to make a statement of principle that such a company will be set up jointly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e898	There is direct contact between the department and the municipality of Oslo. Contacts look positive. These preliminary discussions have not yet been dealt with at political level, either in the Department or in the Municipality of Oslo, but it is clear that it is my ambition and the Government's ambition that this company should become complete, i.e. include both state and municipal interests. That's what we think will lead to the best result. The discussions and – I'm sorry to say that – the opinion of the Municipality of Oslo on these problems will be crucial if we are to achieve a common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e920	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e926	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e929	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Social Affairs: ‘For the first time, Borg Breweries in Sarpsborg delivered Christmas beer to Stroemstad and other border cities. Sarpinger can shrink the price from NOK 23.80 to NOK 14.50 per bottle by driving after the brewery to Stroemstad. The explanation is both the extraordinary level of fees and the greater profit margins of the Vinmonopolet. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the Vinmonopolet as a monopoly company should derive a higher profit than the Systembolaget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e938	I refer to the representative Hedstrøm's question to the Minister of Finance. The question concerns the price fixing of the Vinmonopole on Christmas beer compared to Systembolaget, and I would therefore like to answer the question on this basis. In December 2000, both Vinmonopolet and Systembolaget Borg sold Christmas beer with an alcohol content of 6.6 % vol. In Norway, the bottle cost NOK 23.80. In Sweden it cost SEK 14.50, which equals NOK 13.70. Without a mortgage, the price difference is therefore approx. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The lower selling price of Systembolaget is mainly due to three factors: lower purchase price, lower fee and lower margin. Firstly, Borg Breweries sold the beer NOK 2.43 cheaper per year. bottle of the Systembolaget than of the Vinmonopolet. Secondly, the alcohol charge is NOK 3.32 higher in Norway than in Sweden. In addition, higher VAT will be added as a result of higher purchase prices, alcohol taxes and margins. Thirdly, the margin of the wine monopoly is NOK 1.65 higher than that of the Systembolaget. This is due in particular to the following factors: Counted in litres, Systembolaget sells approx. 5.5 times as much as the wine monopoly. The system company therefore has several products to distribute its determined costs. Furthermore, there is a significant difference between Norway and Sweden in the marketing of beer. In Sweden, beer more than 3.5 % by volume of alcohol is only sold on Systembolaget. In Norway, the limit is known to be at 4,75 % vol. This results in a far greater turnover of beer on the Systembolaget than on the Vinmonopolet. The wine monopoly sold 647,000 litres of beer in 2000. The system company sold 130 million litres of beer in 1999. For the Vinmonopolet, starch stands for approx. 1 pst. of the total turnover. In Sweden, beer sales accounted for approx. half of the total turnover of Systembolaget. This, of course, gives economies of scale. In addition, each customer often acts in large quantities, e.g. boxwise. This also means that the handling costs per bottle can be held at a lower level in Sweden than in Norway. On the basis of this information, I'm going to assume that the wine monopoly could reduce its margins if the skirt, that is. Beer from 3.5 % by volume of alcohol was moved from the grocery trade to the Vinmonopolet, as is the case in Sweden. But I assume that the representative Hedstrøm has not thought of that solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e961	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and that she has gone into the problem and looked at the details. But it still doesn't solve the problems. Borg Breweries has known their market. 80-90 pst. of the Christmas beer sold in Sweden went to the Nordics who traded goods in the neighbouring country. It is, in fact, the case — the Council of State itself — that the price difference is about. 9 plus the mortgage, and then we'll probably get over $10. As a result of this significant sale in our neighbouring country, the Norwegian State loses significant tax revenue. I would also like to mention that the beer tax in Norway is at the top of Europe. Would it not make sense in a society where people travel more and more and can act where they get the cheapest products, regardless of the alcohol policy that is beginning to become obsolete, that we now looked at the level of charges, not only for consumers, but also for the state to get a greater percentage of the tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e970	Alcohol taxes have perhaps been the most important prevention measure we have had. High charges have been particularly high for all Scandinavian countries. They have also had the effect that although we now have a worryingly high consumption among young people, we can see that it is still significantly lower than in very many other countries. However, the alcohol tax is not the only possible prevention measure, and I therefore find it reasonable that we must constantly assess the alcohol charges as preventive measures against the availability of alcohol elsewhere, because I am also concerned that we should have clean trading conditions in the case of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e977	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that our neighbouring countries see this differently when they have lower alcohol rates. From 1 January 2004, Sweden, Denmark and Finland will harmonise the import quotas for alcohol with those in the EU. In practice, this means that differences in charges will increase between Norway and our neighbouring countries. Trade in alcoholic products will, of course, increase with imports from Sweden, Denmark, Finland and other countries. How will the Government meet these issues in the future? Will this be taken into account when assessing alcohol policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e986	As I said in my previous post, the fees are an important prevention measure, but not the only one. We also need to continuously assess the charges in relation to our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e994	We continue to charge charges. Although my question to the Minister of Finance should already be clarified, I will be allowed to ask the following questions to our Minister of Finance: ‘Ten thousand workers in the building industry may lose their jobs due to the new business cycle charge of 10 p.p. on private non-residential buildings, according to the Landsforening of Construction. The Landsforening of the construction industry has estimated to build for 11 billion. kroner are not built this year because of the fee. The result may be an increase in public expenditure due to redundancies and leavencies in the construction industry this year and strong pressure in the construction market in 2002 when the fee lapses. How will the Government deal with such a development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1003	In order to mitigate the strong growth in private sector demand and thus allow for increased allocations in priority areas, the Government of the State budget for 2001 proposed to introduce a general cyclical tax of 1.5 p.m., inter alia. the same basis as the employer’s fee. In the budget agreement, the Government’s proposal was replaced by a much more limited cyclical tax of 10 p.m. investments in non-residential buildings. The fee applies to construction completed in 2001 and to contracts concluded after 18 November 2000. The fee has several similarities to the fee proposed by the Government of Bondevik in St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 Tax, tax and customs decisions. Following the adoption of the levy, several contractors and builders have announced that the planned construction activity in 2001 could be significantly deferred as a result of the levy. In line with the parties to the 2001 State Budget Agreement, the Government will propose to wind up the short-term building tax. At the same time, it will be proposed to abolish the investment levy from 1 April 2002 instead of 1 January as previously adopted. The proposition to this effect will be promoted by the Council of State on 19 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1012	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I am pleased that this very harmful and pointless fee will not be any of it, after both the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties have now turned full retreat and capitulated almost unconditionally under strong pressure, as was mentioned. Of course, it is good and good that in the last few years you recognize your loss and change your vision, but there is a lot of unnecessary fuss about this. There is reason to ask how in all the world it was possible to adopt this, it should be said, the strange charge that everyone would understand would lead to a bomb stop in the construction of new private commercial buildings – otherwise just as the Progress Party always pointed out. Was the purpose of reducing the construction activity, or was the purpose of bringing in the 1.6 billion that you're operating with in the 2001 proceeds? How would you get SEK 1.6 billion from barley that nobody would build? And how was it possible to make as many mistakes as was made here, both for the Workers' Party, which defended this fee until recently, and also for the central parties which promoted the proposal, but which have now repented of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1019	If I am allowed to draw the attention of the representative and remind him that in the cabinet issue raised by former Prime Minister Bondevik in connection with the examination of the revised national budget in 1998, the proposal for a short-term building tax was included. As you know, the Progress Party voted in favour of that proposal and, in principle, the representative, Andersen. Therefore, the questions put to the undersigned by the representative, Andersen, can also be put back to the representative, Andersen. His party and assuming he himself has voted in favour of the corresponding fee earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1024	I thank you for your answer. I see that the Minister of Finance has problems explaining why the Workers' Party agreed to this fee. He has now seen in his afternoon that he does not dare implement it. But it must be embarrassing to admit that he has been completely on the wild roads in this context, and that this was a very little thoughtful suggestion from the first moment. He would not listen to the Progress Party, which was against this charge. So this is where you've bombed to those degrees. What is scary is the lack of quality assurance, in fact, that underlies important parts of the content of the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre. It must be embarrassing for the Working Party and the Centre to admit that these were really wrong. So now they're going to push their tails between their legs, after the Progress Party and the Right were completely right when they very clearly pointed out the unfortunate effects this fee would have. The finance minister cannot now deny that the Progress Party was always right in this matter, as in so many other cases, and that the Workers' Party here has gone on a real whistle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1031	Let me first remind you that the government, as we know, did not promote this proposal, but that it was the result of the debate in Stortinget. For its part, the government has drawn the conclusion that the levy had clearly negative effects and has been determined that it should be liquidated. A winding-up shall be subject to agreement between the parties to the budgetary agreement. Such an agreement has been reached in line with what I referred to, and in accordance with that, the Government will propose the termination of the fee. I must be allowed to remind the representative again that he and his party have voted in favour of a similar fee in Stortinget at an earlier time. Therefore, all the questions he raises here in relation to the lots that entered into the budgetary settlement in the Stortingen in the harvest, also become most applicable to himself and his party. It is true that all parties in the Stortinget at least one time, with the exception of the Coastal Party and with a possible exception of SV – i.e. both the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Workers' Party – have voted in favour of such a cyclical fee. You can then later see that it is most sensible to wind it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1048	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1061	The respondent is not present in the room. Then we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1068	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «According to § 13-13 of the Swedish Social Security Act, self-employed persons are not entitled to work injury if the income is less than 1 G. Unemployed pensioners may have income of 1 G in addition to social security and are also insured by the employer. It seems unfair that unearned pensioners, who are self-employed persons with income of 1 G, should not have the same possibility of insurance as other disability pensioners. Will the Council of State make proposals to amend sections 13 to 13 so that the conditions become the same?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1077	According to the Law on Social Security, all workers are subject to compulsory occupational injury cover. Some groups are equal to employees, e.g. military personnel and students. Self-employed and freelancers have the right to subscribe to voluntary occupational injury. In order to draw such a voluntary social security, the expected entrepreneurial income in the year must exceed the basic amount of the social security, currently NOK 49 090. The representative Nesvik raises questions about whether I want to take the initiative to change this scheme. He points out that disability pensioners can have an income of up to 1 G in addition to social security while being insured by the employer. The representative indicates that it appears unfair that unearned pensioners, who are self-employed persons with income of 1 G or less, should not have the same possibility of insurance as other non-earning pensioners. The specific advantages of social security in the event of occupational injury are primarily established for workers. The aim of the rules is to provide financial compensation for the damage and diseases caused by the particular risk of working conditions. In addition to the special advantages of popularism, all employers are required to take out insurance for the benefit of employees. Both unpensioned and unpensioned workers are victims of occupational injury when they have labour income alongside social security. This is the result of the compulsory occupational injury cover of all workers in the public sector. If the invalidity pensioner has an entrepreneurial income in addition to the social security, there is no compulsory professional indemnity cover or any statutory occupational indemnity insurance. However, as mentioned above, self-employed persons may sign a voluntary social security scheme in the form of social security. Since 1971, when the Act on Occupational Injury was incorporated into the social security system, there has been a limit of 1 G in order to be able to draw such voluntary occupational injury. The amount limit of 1 G has been considered to be natural in relation, inter alia, to: vesting of pension points. Furthermore, the activity should have a certain scope before voluntary occupational injury can be committed. This also applies in relation to the calculation of any social benefits, the basis of which may not be higher than the income after which a premium has been paid. My response to the representative Nesvik is therefore that self-employed persons should have a certain entrepreneurial income before being allowed to subscribe to voluntary occupational injury. However, I would like to assess whether it makes sense to have a slightly lower amount than is the case today, for example. 1⁄2 G, as the minimum limit today is for sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1096	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I hope that the assessment will come. Not least, I hope this will change, and given that there is actually a discrimination between workers and self-employed people. The problem is not when you get over 1 G, because then you can take insurance, but if you have an income that is below or just below 1 G, you do not have the possibility of professional indemnity insurance. I therefore hope the Council of State can come back quickly. I would also like to refer to a letter I received in her from the County Ironing Office in Eastfold to the Rikstrøgdeverket, which includes: points this out to the Rikstrygdeverket and the discrimination that exists here. And what's interesting is that the Rikstrygdeverket actually writes back in a letter to the County Strygdekontoret in Østfold the following: [[President clubs]] I'll take it in the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1105	I'm going to answer the first part. I believe it when I say that I will assess whether it may be reasonable to have a lower amount than is the case today. That is why I want to look at the matter and, based on that, do something about it if I find it reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1112	Then I thank you once again for the answer, and that will be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1120	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Ryfylkevegen, Rv 13 and Rv 520, are concerned as a national tourist road. Locally, there is a wide agreement from the municipalities and professional bodies involved that the Lightefjord should be the starting point and the Hard end point of a national tourist road in Ryfylke. In view of the planned funding model and progress plan of the Directorate of Roads, will the Council of State take such a solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1129	A project has been launched by the State Road Administration to develop a network of national tourist roads, cf. St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The selected road sections shall provide the road user with an experienced and varied driving experience in the highest of Norwegian nature. They shall also be high national quality tourist products, which are important in the marketing of Norway as tourist destinations. Proposals are available at the pre-project level for the Typhoon Road and four other sections, Hardanger, Lofoten, along the Atlantic Road and in the Geiranger/Troll Trail, for approval in the Road Directorate. The basis for approval is the driving experience. In consultation with the Committee on National Tourism Roads, and with the advice of the working group, the Directorate of Roads has concluded that in Ryfylke the route from Röldal to the west of the Tysdal Waters within Tau can be interesting as a national tourist road. In selecting the national tourist roads, we have a thorough process of using consultants and professionals with different backgrounds and experience. Representatives from, among others, the National Tourism Roads Committee. Norwegian Tourist Council, National Association of Travel Life Enterprises, Norwegian Automobile Association, Directorate of Nature Management and the Central Association of Municipalities. In addition, a specialist group of experienced professionals with good knowledge of the field of activity is involved. It is important to base professional assessments. With background in, inter alia: However, I would like to ask the Directorate of Roads to review this matter in relation to the tourist road in Ryfylke.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1140	I thank the Council of State for a positive answer. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 by the Ministry of Transport, the basic framework for state investment on national tourist roads is being established, and I believe that is what is now being followed up in the Transport Plan. In the proposition, there are, among other things. to say that tourists have to focus their experiences and needs, that road sections should go into areas of great nature and/or cultural value, as well as local initiative and commitment. This is the text that will be underlined in messages for the seeker. So the Ryfylkevegen in October 1999 was told to start the application work with the Lysefjord-Røldal section. It is based on the fact that the emphasis is on the fact that the premises have changed in the course of the process, with the result that they can be applied for both reduced means, reduced experience and reduced attractiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1149	We base the frameworks that have been drawn up so far, and that is also what is emphasised in the Government's proposals in relation to the national transport plan. I also agree that it must be the tourist experience – the driving experience, if you want – which is the basic one, and therefore the tourist road status should be high. But at the same time, it is important to see this as an incentive for local business and travel, and therefore it is also right to emphasise local involvement and attitudes. And it's especially on the basis of the latest that I'm going to ask the Directorate of Road for a new review of the case concerning the Ryfylke.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1156	I am very pleased with the emphasis that the Council of State here makes also of the travel professional assessments and the incentive that such a project will be for local travel in an area where there are great experiences for many. It appears from the application that this is about a split layer between the country and the municipalities involved to provide several tourists with rest spaces, photos and experiences. There is also broad agreement between local political authorities, the spokespersons of the municipalities in question and local professional bodies, ranging from the head of the road in Rogaland to the destinations of Ryfylke and landscape analyses. State Secretary Eirin Sund has also been on sight and has expressed support for the Lightfjord as a starting point. My question is, will one also focus on the views of local professional bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1165	I'll say it so that local involvement will be added to the weight. I would ask the Directorate of Roads to do that, and then I assume that the relevant professional and other local authorities will be involved in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1180	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1186	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1189	I have the following questions: ‘The Swedish authorities will increase their predatory strains. The proposal envisages an increase in the number of wolves from 70 to 500, an increase in the stock of yorks from 270 to a minimum of 400, and a minimum of 1000 animals and a retention of the population of gauze. 1500 animals. The consequences of the Swedish predatory policy will be an increase in the immigration of Swedish predators on Norwegian soil, which will result in severe losses for sheep farmers and losses of other huntable game such as elk and deer. What will the Council of State do with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1198	In a short time, the Swedish government will present to Parliament a proposition on its predatory policy. The Swedish proposals for stock objectives involve, for the wolf, a stage objective of approx. 20 young people per year. in Sweden, or approx. 200 individuals. A population of nearly 500 individuals of wolves is proposed as a long-term target. Within the stage objective, harmful traps shall be allowed in Sweden only to a limited extent. Furthermore, the establishment of family groups of wolves throughout Sweden shall be permitted, with the exception of all-year reindeer areas. For you, it is added to a target of 90 young people per year. This is an increase in relation to recent years, where the population of the herds in Sweden has decreased from 70 to 40 young people in a few years. For bears and gaupe, the Swedish proposal for stock targets presented to the Riksdag does not mean any significant changes in relation to current populations. It is up to each country to set its stock targets for large predators within the international framework in force. Therefore, Norway also has through St.meld. No 35 for 1996-1997 set our stock targets for the same predators. As this is largely a matter of common populations with Sweden, it is an advantage to arrive at stock targets in the two countries that are compatible with ensuring viability and in reducing losses and conflicts. From the Norwegian side, the objectives of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-1997. For wolves, this involves a target of at least eight to ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. Norway should take its share of these eight-ten family groups. Several meetings have been held in the autumn between the administrative authorities and the departments of the two countries in order to ensure good contact and mutual information. From the Norwegian side, special attention has been paid at these meetings to providing views on the problems the Norwegian authorities will face in the case of growing wild game populations in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1211	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that this is a common stock, and when the Swedes increase the number of predators, it will go beyond the Norwegian sheep farm and the herd of elk and deer. We're spending about 120 million today. kr both in the form of compensation and preventive measures. As I consider it, this could have to be increased as long as it is enough of domestic animals to provide for the predators. Now, with the use of helicopters and snowmobiles, we're going to have to launch a turbulent act. My question, in view of yours and yours, will the authorities open up so that you can also use helicopters and snowmobiles in search of gloat and yerv?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1222	In the case of questions relating to the possible killing of wolves, the Directorate for Nature Management has indicated that this may be the case, but that work remains on the census of populations before the Directorate may take a decision on the matter, as well as on the hunting method. In addition, it is not possible for me today to have any assessments related to you and other predators in relation to killing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1227	I thank you for the answer, and I understand that the Council of State may have a little problem answering these questions, which may be a little bit far inside the department. But I want to show that the helicopter was used for Yervejakt in Northernland for some time, and that it was successful. What will be important is to take out the quotas that are set for gloat and yerv, because it is these predators that pose the greatest threat to the sheep farmers. I could imagine asking questions as to whether there will also be the possibility of considering the extension of hunting time in terms of gaupe and yerv, to get the quotas that are set, and whether you can then assess a strong shot premium so it becomes more attractive to hunt these predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1236	These questions are important, and they are concrete, and they are also concrete in such a way that I expect understanding, including from the representative of Korsberg, that I will bring the views of the representative of Korsberg back to the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1244	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1247	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold we are affected by the fact that the Ministry of the Environment will allow wolves to import from Finland. This is to ensure healthy genes for the Swedish-Norwegian wolf tribe. Does the Council understand that some people living in these areas react negatively to the proposed importation of predators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1256	There is now an interesting genetic research going on to shed light on important questions related to the Scandinavian wolf. Work is being carried out, among others: to find answers to the relationship between different populations of wolves and to the presence of genetic exchanges between populations. Still, this work is only in the start-up pit, and it will take some time for results to be available. Research shows that the Scandinavian wolf tribe has been few in number over a long period of time. To ensure viability over time, there is, first of all, a need to ensure a minimum population of individuals giving birth. Secondly, it will be necessary to ensure a genetic diversity that provides viability. This suggests that there may be a need for a certain genetic exchange with other wolf strains over time. It is not appropriate to carry out a genetic exchange through active imports of wolves from other populations. My challenge is to ensure the survival of the Scandinavian wolf population over time, while taking into account other interests. This requires, inter alia: close cooperation with the authorities of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1265	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an interesting response, and which also emphasizes this with cooperation between the Nordic countries, which I also think is very important. The question of follow-up is as follows: Does the State Council or the Ministry of the Environment know about the past import of wolves into Norway – legally or illegally? These are claims that sometimes appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1272	It's true, as the representative of Bredvold says, that there are sometimes rumors about the release of wolves in Scandinavia and in the neighbourhoods. Firstly, such outsourcing has never been authorised; secondly, it is illegal under the law of the wild, and, in the eyes of the Norwegian authorities, it is not appropriate to carry out such outings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1277	I thank you for your answer. What this also often involves is quality of life. And I see that State Secretary Stein Lier-Hansen says there is no urgent need for the import of new wolves. I hope the Council of State will take this further, so that we weigh the quality of life against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1284	It's one of the factors that needs to be considered. But it is also important to follow genetic development, because there are different perceptions both in terms of quantities of wild game and also in terms of where such game should be allowed to live according to the Norwegian authorities. But it's in everyone's interest when these questions are settled, that the predatory game that's going to live gets a life force that gives the game a future. It is therefore important to continue research in this area, and it is important to assess, inter alia, the impact of this research. this, so that you do not prevent natural migration. But I repeat what I said in my main response, that it is not relevant to import or release of animals to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1299	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1305	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: «In the municipality of Gausdal there is a debate on the role of mountain governments. The members of the Board of Governors are appointed by the City Council but nevertheless choose to hold their meetings closed for transparency. Can the Council of State provide a reason why mountain governments are the only municipal elected elected governments that can still hold their meetings closed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1314	Section 3 of the Mountain Act states that there must be a mountain government in each municipality where there is a general government. The Board of Governors shall manage the exercise of the rights of use existing, such as the right to seats and to grazing, as well as the pursuit and fishing of the general public. The Board of Governors shall also ensure that the general public is used in a way that promotes the economy of the countryside and ensures the protection of nature and the interests of the open air. The activities shall necessarily be carried out in consultation with the State Forest SF, such as: serves the interests of the State as the landowner of the general government. The Board of Governors is appointed by the local authority and shall be composed in such a way as to represent the interests of the rights of use as well as the hunting, fishing and open-air interests. Mountain government is a very special body, which cannot be characterised as a purely municipal or state body, or as a denominator. The tasks are described in the Mountain Act and the Mountain Board must be said to be given a relatively independent position. In addition to the appointment, the municipality has no authority over the mountain government other than to determine the compensation of its members, as determined by the mountain government’s own resources, not the municipality’s. The municipality cannot instruct the mountain government, nor does it have any influence on the way in which the revenues of the mountain government are to be disposed of. The independent position of the Board of Governors is underlined by the fact that it may be a party to disputes before the courts and also the employer for its employees. However, for the proceedings of the Mountain Board, the rules of the Administrative Act relating to the preparation and justification of decisions apply, as well as the rules on access to documents. The decisions taken by the mountain government may be appealed against to the ministry under the mountain law. The appeal procedure has now been delegated to the State Agriculture Administration. When one cannot characterise the mountain government as a municipal body in the sense of the municipal law, the conclusion must be that the mountain government is also not obliged to comply with the rules of the municipal law to hold the meetings for open doors. In general, however, in my opinion, it is an advantage with great transparency in administration. If the individual board itself wants to have open meetings, there is nothing wrong with this, unless specific circumstances in the individual case would indicate that the board of directors is bound by professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1327	I thank you for your answer. I have to say that the position of the mountain government is something special. It is justified that the Mountain Government should promote business and outdoor life and that it is a special body. I can't quite see that the mountain government is a rather special body than any other sample and organ in this country, so I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding this. It is quite clear that they can hold open meetings, as it is said, if they will. But what will the Council of State do in those cases where you don't want to open these samples at all? That's what I'm asking, and it's especially in one municipality, the municipality of Gausdal, where you don't want to be transparent at all, and where there's a very heated debate in the community about getting insight into what this government is doing. Does the Council not see the importance of greater transparency in this administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1339	As I also said in my main answer, I think in principle the questioner and I'm far on the way are agreeing that transparency absolutely is the way progress should go. But in the question from the questioner he asks me to provide a ‘reason’ for why the mountain governments are the only municipal elected elected governments who can still hold their meetings for closed doors. And the reason for that is that the mountain government is appointed on the basis of another law, and that it is not covered by the municipal law. And the general provision of the municipal law on open meetings is not governing the meetings of the board. When Nistad asks what we could possibly do with it, if we want to, the answer is that in that case we have to do something about the mountain law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1346	I am very pleased that the Council of State and I agree in principle. And I understand that the Council of State will deal with this matter, so that we might get a solution to this, so that there will be more transparency in mountain governments. Is that how I can understand the Council of States, that he and I agree in principle on this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1351	For various reasons, it is probably reasonable to look at certain aspects of the mountain law. So starting a work to assess the design of the mountain law in the future is up to date. And the questioner can feel confident that when we start that work, the question of transparency will also be included in the board's meetings in the assessment related to legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1359	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «Questions about the care standard in Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act and Section 239 of the Criminal Code in case of fatal accidents in traffic were dealt with in Stortinget on 31 May 1999. The conclusion was then that one would see the further practice of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court's judgment of 8 November states that a different standard of care under Section 239 of the Criminal Code than under Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act requires a change in the wording of the Act. Is there any reason now to amend the law, so that it is only possible to punish for negligent killings by the use of motor vehicles in the event of serious breaches of the rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1368	The current Minister of Justice, Dørum, stated in the debate on the interpellation on 31 May 1999, that he agreed that the slightest negligence should not lead to the conviction of negligent rapture and that the first practice after the 1988 amendment was too strict. I agree with that. State Council Dørum further stated that practice had become so that it now takes more to condemn negligent carjacking, and that for that reason no legislative change should be made, but that the ministry would keep the issue under review. These points of view were echoed in Stortinget. In the post-interpellation period, the Ministry has obtained detailed information on both legal and prosecution practices and has assessed different solutions. The ministry was ready to give an assessment of it to the Stortingen in the fall, but wanted to, because we were aware that the Supreme Court rulings that came on 8 November were on the way, to wait for the verdicts as well. In the light of the findings, I will come back in a very short time to the question of whether there is a need to amend the penal code § 239. With regard to the specific opinion of the Supreme Court on the standard of care applicable under Section 239 of the Criminal Code, I would like to point out that it is still such that a conviction under this provision requires that care is also taken in relation to the consequence of death. This means that, in some cases, it will be possible to be judged for infringement of Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act, which has acted negligently in relation to the risk of injury in general, without the need to provide a basis for penalties under Section 239 of the Criminal Code. In other words, in a short time I will return to the question to Stortinget about whether there is a need to amend Section 239 of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1379	I thank you for the answer, which I am pleased with in the sense that there will now be a broad review of this, as I understand the Council of State's response. The background to my raising questions about this again is that I missed an initiative from the ministry in the continuation of what we had in the interpellation debate in May 1999, because now a couple – I would call it – have happened – almost a little bit of a watchful judge. Both of them happened in November. One was in Borgarting's law, following the procedure in the Drammen warehouse, where the actor suddenly dropped his claim and went for the acquittal that had been adopted earlier. Second, it is for the Supreme Court to state that if they are to change their practice, they have to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1386	It is precisely the new Supreme Court ruling that makes it necessary for us to go through practice one more round, in order also to incorporate into the work what is the Supreme Court judgment in the judgment of 8 November. That work is near the end and will therefore be presented to the Storting in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1391	I thank you for that. I would just like to stress that in the debate in May 1999, there was a large majority in favour of having a slightly lighter view of these issues than what had developed. The size did not mean that almost every day-to-day behaviour in traffic, which could result in death-to-dead driving, was to be punished, and that it was said to be fought in hard grain with ordinary killers. The Labour Party was, at the representative Rasmussen in the debate then, even ready to make the amendment of the law at that time. And I personally would like to add that I think it is now necessary, because the Supreme Court has not applied a unique practice, to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1398	I record the views of the representative Marthinsen foreshadowing, and also the considerations that run at a border between killing and everyday negligence, or what is even more precise, for example. may call error-sharing of attention, which is one way of describing negligence, which should probably not be affected by § 239. That's one of the things we're involved in the assessment that we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1406	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «We are surprised to note that the Law on Landfill remains in force, but that Atle Torvund in the Ministry of Justice's law department suggests that the law will only apply during 2001, according to Dagens Næringsliv 19 December 2000. As is well known, the law on Santa Claus was first adopted in 1996, and it is not possible to see any good reasons for the exceptional delay in proceedings. When will the Council of State ensure the enforcement of the Law on Santa Claus?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1415	After the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Landfills of 7 July 2000 nr. 70 emphasis has been placed on maintaining a level playing field in the preparation of the entry into force of the Law on Landfilling, the winding-up of price regulation in this area and the final drafting of the law. We are now in the final phase of the work, and I am aiming for the law to be brought into force on 1 July 2001. Most people and the authorities responsible for law administration should be given reasonable time to get involved in legislation, including: the new regulations to come. Therefore, some time should elapse between the publication of the regulations and the delivery of information until the law enters into force. Legislation of this type, such as: In addition, business activities should normally enter into force from the end of the year, and exceptionally from the mid-yearly end of July, which I now propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1424	I would like to thank you for your answer. One of the most important things is that this type of legislation should initially enter into force from the beginning of a year. There are some attempts to explain why it has not been possible since the current turn of the year. I would like to challenge the Council of State on this, if we could get a little more detailed justification that it was not possible to have the Law of Santa Claus enforced from 1 January 2001. I assume that we quickly agree that this is a law that involves a lot of people, because it's about homes or other properties for most people. And the uncertainty that has been in this law for many, many years now is of great dissatisfaction – I think – both for landowners and landlords. So I would like to know why this law has not been implemented – as everyone has believed, it has even been congratulations in the leadership of one of our national newspapers – from 1 January 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1433	I agree, of course, that it is desirable for a law to come into force as soon as possible after it has been adopted in Stortinget. The simple answer to why we have not been able to bring it into force from 1 January is simply that the work on the preparation of regulations and the winding-up of the price regulation regulation has not been possible to implement it as quickly as we would wish in isolation, that we have managed to achieve it. There's no more complicated answer to that than that. I wish it had been possible, but together with the other tasks that the same people are going to do, we have thus kept a steady momentum, but not clear to keep as high a momentum as the representative Hernæs would have wanted, and I, to my part, would have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1438	The following follow-up: Both parties in this case agree that the discussion and dispute around the Santa Claus Act is one of the classic lines of conflict in Norwegian policy. This may be precisely why it is also perceived to be so unsatisfactory that it has not been possible to achieve a secure legal order in this area. In addition, the Labour Party Programme for the 2001-2005 Major elections includes the following: ‘The system of fasteners should therefore be wound up.’ After two years, the law on emptying will also be evaluated, and then my question will be: is it part of the Ministry's further work and preparation to follow up the Labour Party's election programme for the current period, and can we expect that uncertainty will continue to be created about the law on landfilling, in the sense that work will be risked for its abolition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1450	After all, there is no doubt that a government has left the Workers' Party to comply with the Workers' Party's programme. That programme was adopted in November and is valid for the 2001-2005 enlargement period, and I can confirm that at least no concrete work has been undertaken in the Ministry of Justice with a view to obtaining the programme formulation of the Workers' Party. The work in the Ministry of Justice so far has been aimed only at bringing into force the law adopted by the Stortinget, and we have had no illusions that the sitting magnificence wants to make any change to the current law on the site, as it was adopted in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1460	In these per million days, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘No one fully knows how to enforce the new per mill limit. What is clear is that the promille of between 0.2 and 0.4 will lead to a fine and a review, but the size will vary. In the worst case, the driving licence may also be withdrawn. In addition, it appears that the measuring equipment is also not reliable. Will the Council of State stop further measurements until the measuring equipment is sufficiently credible and ensure that subsequent offences are fined equally independently of where they are in the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1469	The police's main instrument for controlling per mille is alcometers, which indicate the concentration of alcohol in the air exhaled by a person. Recent media surveys have shown the credibility of this method of control in the context of a change in the per mille limit. After I have been informed by the police director, it is not known that the instruments have technical defects. However, the assumption for correct measurement results is that the instrument is properly calibrated, i.e. that the correct zero point for the instrument to indicate per mill and that the controlled one has not eaten shortly before the check, e.g. make up containing some alcohol, oral spray or similar. I assume that the instruments are calibrated according to the current instructions before they are used for checks. As regards the implementation of the checks, I can inform you that the police officers serving the alcomets have been trained to take account of sources of error and have knowledge of possible sources of error. They will therefore ask the necessary control questions as to what may have caused the rash. The police will therefore allow him to wait a while before a new blow test. The alcometer rash shall not occur if the first measurement result is due to a source of error. This procedure is regulated by its own instructions. In the light of the information I have, it is not appropriate to stop the use of alcometers. In the case of specific guidelines for criminal prosecution within the framework laid down by law, this is the responsibility of the prosecution authority. I would also like to point out that, as is the case with other infringements of the law, criminal proceedings in pro-mille cases must be specifically determined on a case-by-case basis, inter alia. the size of the promillen, any other criminal aggravating factors and the personal circumstances of the promillen. In addition, fines shall be fixed in accordance with the relevant conditions of property. Individually defined criminal responses will therefore vary to some extent, but not more than is common in other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1482	I thank you for your answer. Much of that government council was in, is already known, but it was very much if and if and if in the answer. And that's also the perception that there's a lot of uncertainty about this. How severe the punishment is for those who get fucked with low promille, still hovering in the blue. Since there is a new limit, there is actually no case law. There is also no guidance on the size of fines, and the level of penalties may vary appreciably from place to place. It also underlined the Minister of Justice. The Advocate General has not given any directives, but wants to get feedback on the reactions that are coming and on the level at which they lie. We've got grotesque examples of how this can work out. In Oslo police districts, a rate of between NOK 5000 and NOK 10000 is imposed for 0.2 and 0.4 per million. We also know that this will lead to the need for new measuring instruments and adjustments, and it will cost tens of millions of dollars for investment. I hope in this context that it is not such that this becomes a balancing post for the individual police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1493	I didn't realize that there was any additional question, but more a comment, so I really don't have an answer to what was not a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1498	I can move on. I understand that the Minister of Justice does not have the full overview of fines to be imposed, and that's what I was looking for in my main question, whether she wants to take responsibility for equal treatment across the country, so it's not just going to be due to coincidences. I understand that the Minister of Justice does not want that to happen. In addition, breathing alcohol is equated with blood alcohol in terms of per mille driving. It is politically determined that 0.1 mg of alcohol per day. litres of air shall be equivalent to a blood sample of 0,2. However, since the accuracy of the measurement methods varies greatly, the safety margin for breath samples is much higher than for blood samples. My claim is that it won't be the same for the law, because alcohol concentration in blood relative to air varies from person to person. In fact, the uncertainty of the moment after it has become 0,2 per mille may lead to legal certainty, more than being within credible limits and limits to ensure the legal certainty of those to be checked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1507	I'm pointing out that the limits of promille, both in terms of breath and blood, are determined by the Storting and adopted by the Storing. I assume that legal certainty is reasonably well respected when the Storting as a legislative authority has actually established the limit to be applied, and then the representative Stang may disagree with it. With regard to the level of the fine, I also assume that the representative Stang is fully aware that the Minister of Justice has no authority to instruct the prosecution authority in the investigation of individual cases or the determination of individual criminal proceedings. It is in the hands of the Public Prosecutor's Office as the supreme authority. I assume that the prosecution authority is following it in the usual way, the way in which they otherwise govern the prosecution and the security of the equality of law in this country in all forms of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1517	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, in its letter of 27 September, has used the amendment of Section 25 of the Private School Act by Stortinget. 3 in June 2000 as a reason why the application by Sunnmøre Jugenskule for approval under the Private School Act has not yet been completed, after almost 2 years of treatment. Why does the change in the law, which is merely a clarification of the old legal text, lead to longer treatment time, and when can Sunnmøre youth school wait for an answer to the application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1526	Sunnmøre Indremission has applied for the approval of a secondary school in Volda municipality under the private school law. The school is applied for admission for 168 students. The municipality of Volda has stated to the Ministry that a ‘sees with concern that a private school is created in the youth class in the municipality of Volda’. After reading the opinion from the municipality, I believe that the approval of a private secondary school with up to 168 students can have a relatively large negative impact on the public school offer in the municipality of Volda. Since Stortinget amended the Private School Act this summer, the Ministry can no longer place a unilateral emphasis on the decline in the number of pupils for the municipality in the overall assessment of schools applying for approval under the Private School Act § 3 (a) or (b). I believe that the department previously had such access and that the amendment of the law therefore implies a restriction of the Ministry's discretionary authority. As a result of the amendment of the law, a more comprehensive examination of the application from Sunnmøre Indremition is necessary, inter alia. with an assessment of the syllabus. This means that the Ministry had to obtain a number of additional information from the applicant. The Ministry has received additional information from the applicant by letter dated 8 October 2000 and 6 November 2000 respectively. The new information is subject to new assessments by the Ministry, but I can inform you that the Ministry will decide on the application from Sunnmøre Indremission for the approval of Sunnmøre Youth School as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1535	That the department does not delay the processing of applications in exorcism, I would like to take it as completely self-evident. But my question is in paragraph 1 about how a legislative change that clarifies the legal text, which limits the space for the exercise of judgement, can lead to longer processing time. If I understood the Council's answer correctly, his answer to it was that the department really wanted to answer no to the application if the law had not been clarified. And when that possibility was ruled out, you had to look for a new reason to be able to answer no. I'd like to hear if there's a proper perception of what the Council of State actually said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1540	Firstly, the change that Stortinget made in the private school law on this point is not a clarification of the law as it was. It's a change in the law. The consequence is that one can no longer focus one-sidedly on, for example: the municipality's view that a new private school is damaging the public school offer. In the past, you could. It is a significant change, not a clarification of the legislation as it was. If you receive an application, such as: in Volda, where the local government really strongly warns against giving approval to the school, because they believe that it can weaken the student base at the Volda schools, and especially the out-of-school communities in the towns, it would have been enough after the old legal text to say that that school should not be approved. It's not like that anymore. Then, of course, you wouldn't have to go in all the other details if you could say no. But you can't do that anymore. You have to do the entire rest of the job, not with an initial attitude, but you have to make a real decision on a whole basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1547	What the Council of State now says is that, for its part, the Council of State disagrees with the Storting's interpretation of the legal text of the decision in June this year. And because the Council of State disagrees with the interpretation of the private school law by the majority of the population, and because he has to look for a new basis in order to answer no to the application, he spends so long on handling a case. I find that with respect to reporting alarming. For the purposes of the professional evaluation of the application, the amendment of the legal text made by the Storting may not be affected at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1552	I am a little unsure whether the representative really does not understand this, or whether he does not want to understand it. If you had previously a law that gave you permission to say no if a new private school damaged the student base in public school – I am a member of such a home and can use it to say no to protect the public general school and also the decentralised school offer in many municipalities – then you didn't have to do the rest of the analytical job if that was the basis to say no. Then I would say that doing that extra work is extra bureaucracy and extra use of taxpayers' money. But when that basis is no longer there after it was changed in the summer of 2000 – I disagreed with that change – I will, of course, follow what the Stortinget has decided on regarding that law, and then you have to do the rest of the job. That's what the department is doing. We received the latest information in November and work to complete the application procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1559	Case No. 1 on today's map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1568	The report is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber, and the President refers only to the number of cases and proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1635	President! I cannot see that the record is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-10.ana.ud2674e1640	No, that is unfortunately the case. But now it was referred from here, so the president hopes it was good enough. Then we can get the record distributed at a later date.
