ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e36	Representatives Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Lars Sponheim, Haakon Blankenborg, Marit Nybakk, Dag Danielsen, Lisbet Ruggtvedt, Einar Steensnæs, and Johan J. Jakobsen, who has been on leave, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e66	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e71	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e76	Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e81	I would like to make a proposal to review laws, regulations and practices to ensure better protection for persecuted women.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e86	The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e89	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to make the VAT compensation scheme for municipalities and county municipalities in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e95	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e98	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Ågot Valle and myself, I will put forward a proposal for immediate action to improve the economic situation of poor children's families.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e103	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e124	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen State Council Otto Gregussen State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – Has Mr. The Enoch got up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e143	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e148	The president sees Odd Roger Enoksen on his way to the pulpit. Then there's probably a misunderstanding. The President asked for Mr. The Enoch had reported to the main question, he did not signal who was going to start. The President is a member of private initiative, but not in any context. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e155	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In the first document of the government of Stoltenberg to the Stortinget – at least last year’s revised national budget – the following was written about taxes: «The ability to increase tax revenue is limited in the coming years. The level of taxation in Norway is already high compared with other countries.’ After that, the level of taxation in the draft budget increased by DKK 12 billion. Since then, you've come up with better thoughts. At least the Minister of Finance has put forward ideas to reduce top taxes, and a budgetary settlement has committed itself to removing the investment levy. When such ideas are launched from other parties, the Minister of Finance in Stortinget’s ‘svaretimes’ is used to use the opportunity to ask for the coverage. My question is therefore: What are the Government's plans regarding the collection of tax reliefs and the total elimination of the investment tax? What other taxes does the Government think will go up when these go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e169	Now, the representative here is asking about the arrangement of the state budget for next year. Of course I won't comment on that. But what the representative here also raises questions about is whether there is a majority in the UK that wants to implement changes in the tax system to bring about an approximation in the taxation of labour and capital. I have made it clear that, for its part, the Labour Party believes that there are strong reasons for a certain reduction in the top tax, and I hope so, Mr. Foss and I can agree. I am a little surprised by the ongoing tax debate on the Right, and also on the part of the Progress Party. It is true that there were two years when the Right Party and the Advance Party had an opportunity to influence the design of the budget, when they entered into budgetary settlements with the Bondevik Government. And that's how the figures for 1998 and 1999 are interesting to see how the taxes changed. It might be interesting to send the representative Foss a magnifying glass to try to show: Where did the tax cuts in the budgetary agreements to which the Right then was party? Was it the case that the overtime tax was reduced? No, it didn't. On the contrary, the actual overtime tax and marginal tax were reduced from 57 pst. to 48.8 pst. when the Workers' Party presented the tax reform in 1992. Was the gas tax reduced? No, it didn't. The first time the petrol and diesel taxes have been reduced is during this government. Is it the case that the alcohol tax was reduced? No, it didn't. In fact, this government proposed to reduce the brandy fee by 17,5 p.m.. Is it the case that food prices were reduced? No, not that either. But there is a budgetary settlement this year that means halving VAT on food. That's why I like this discussion about how taxes have evolved, among other things. In 2001, to which the Right Party and the Advance Party are still coming back, we look back at the experience gained with the budgets in which the Right Party has actually had the opportunity to exercise influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e178	I would like to make the Council aware that I am responding on behalf of the Right, and I understand that this is also a «black hour». I would like to answer the questions asked by the Council of State. So I allowed myself to ask a question about the collection of the tax reductions promised. I record that the government party will not respond to that at all. Otherwise, I fully agree that the Right needs stronger influence on the budgetary agreements – I share that idea, and I am working as hard as I can to achieve it. But I have to say that it is better to make a budget settlement with zero tax increases than a budget settlement with tax increases of NOK 12 billion. It's one of the driest things we've had in a long time, and it's in stark contrast to what the government itself has promised. One can discuss how credible one is when one promises relief in the top tax after having first increased it on every possible occasion. Let me just point out that throughout the 1990s, the number of people who paid top taxes increased dramatically, with the exception of a single year. Then there was no increase, and it was in 1999 when the Right had an influence on the budget agreement. We should have had more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e187	When there was a real change in the marginal tax on labour income, it was in connection with the tax reform presented by the Labour Party Government. From 1991 to 1992, the increased marginal tax was reduced from 57.8 pst. to 48.8 pst. But the starting point for my answer and my counter-question to the representative is that when the Right Party and the Advance Party stand in opposition, debates are taking place in the Grand Chamber, it is made like reducing taxes and taxes, and it is very central that we should get in touch with them. In fact, however, there have been opportunities to adopt their policies, partly when they themselves were in government position, but not least in the years of budgetary conciliation, for 1998 and 1999. And then it's not that we find again that right-wing priority is the reduction of taxes and taxes. It was not the case that the petrol tax was reduced, it was not the case that the alcohol tax was reduced, it was not the case that the tax level was reduced. That's why there's a strong contradiction between what the Right makes as its policy, and what they actually do when they have the power to influence, for once.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e194	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e198	After listening to the Minister of Finance, I realize that there is a need for reform of the Storting Question Time system, a system in which the Councils of State are given the opportunity to ask the representatives. I have understood that there are many things and a lot of government councils wonder which he does not have an answer to. But now it is that in this question-time form, it is the bigotry representatives who ask questions to the Minister of Finance, and so the Minister of Finance was unable to answer the question. Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland, the leader of the Workers' Party, has said from the Chair of Schjøtt-Pedersen that all essential questions should be put on the table before the elections. How is it then that Schjøtt-Pedersen is only prepared to put on the table the areas where he wants the taxes to go down, while he refuses to answer questions about the areas where the taxes will go up? If, for once, the Council of State could concentrate on answering questions, could he be so kind as to answer this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e205	So it is a majority in the Grand Duchy that has agreed to propose some systemic changes in the taxation of food and capital. It is also a majority in the United Kingdom that noted a few days ago that the desire to have a wider discussion on this issue would not aim to implement such a change from 2002 but from 2003. I think that's wise. I think it is wise to have better time to prepare for such a change, and to have better time to discuss possible changes with different professional environments and with different business actors and organisations. And then, of course, it's not that the government at this point in time has decided what the content of such a system change should be. On the contrary, the Government has always made it clear that it will not be possible to have completed a sketch for such a system change in ours. We have said that the first possible time will be for the harvest. Now we have the opportunity to spend more time, and I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e210	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e213	Thus, where the Workers' Party proposed the increase in taxes and charges of the time, the Progress Party proposed a reduction in the tax burden of DKK 40 billion for the current year. But the main question of Per-Kristian Foss was whether the government thought that the level of total taxes and taxes is now high enough, whether we can assume that the government will continue to increase the tax and tax burden for the future, or whether there could soon be a signal that the overall tax and tax level is high enough. It is not useful to try to pretend to be eager to reduce some taxes and taxes when you are constantly working to take it back in another way. And it would be interesting to know whether the Government intends to work for a lower tax burden, or whether we have to assume that different taxes and taxes will also increase for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e220	The government has no plans to increase the overall tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e225	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e228	Last week, the Storting discussed the processes for the planned reconversion of the tax system. It's kind of limited to talking about the process, but it's clear that the content is interesting. We in the centre party are very concerned about reducing the distance between the taxation of capital income and wage income. Now, in its draft budget, the Labour Party last put some emphasis on the so-called KAF model, i.e. a progressive surplus tax. We are somewhat sceptical about whether this is a proper model to preserve and stimulate value creation, facilitate innovation and make Norway attractive for the establishment of profitable businesses. I assume that the Minister of Finance has already begun to think about what he will present in the new tax system. It would be interesting if he would lighten up a little bit on the veil and say that this progressive excess tax – maybe it's not the best model to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e235	Let me first say that it may well be that the model that was discussed in the context of the national budget is not the one that is best suited as a model for system changes in the tax system. You can come up with other systems that can be better suited. Here it is that the party representing the representative of Sørfonn, the Christian People's Party, and the Central Party, the Left and the Workers' Party in the budgetary conciliation established some basic principles that should be the basis for a system change in food and capital taxation. That, of course, the Government has full respect for it, and it bases it on its further work. Then we have made it clear from the Government that there is a need for thorough investigations to find out how to design a system that is in line with the principles that were laid down. I think it's wise to take more time before such a system change is introduced. It is also the case that the Government has sent out invitations to broad professional environments and to broad business environments to discuss the possible changes in the systems. We'll listen to that before we go into any position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e244	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e247	In the original question from Per-Kristian Foss, it was mentioned that two important steps had been taken in the budgetary agreement, namely the approximation of the tax rate between labour and capital as a guide to the changes that will occur and the actual decision to remove the investment tax. My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Does he know that, by means of some budgetary settlement, a whole type of tax has ever been removed with as much proceeds as it was made through the decision taken on the investment levy? And does the Minister of Finance share the view that a future tax system based on a convergence of tax rates for labour and capital and for a broader and more efficient taxation of consumption is the international trend that Norway will follow in this respect and that will provide a future and good, robust and modern tax system that also practices other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e254	Let me first say that it is clear that the budgetary agreement decided to remove the investment levy is a big decision. I recall that also the government of Harlem Brundtland in the tax reform proposal in its time suggested that the investment fee be abolished. That time, the Storting didn't prioritize it. This time, a majority in the Biggest has come to the conclusion that it will be right to do so. So, of course, it's clear that it's a challenge for the Government to find room for it within the budget line that you're planning for next year, but we're of course going to base the budgetary agreement that's been reached. Then the representative travels Sponheim, among others. issues of wider taxation of consumption. Norway was, as far as I am aware, the only country that has a VAT system but has not had a general VAT on services before the decision taken in the autumn. I therefore think it was a sensible decision to introduce a general VAT now, and will come back to its limitations. There are many difficult issues that the Government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e264	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e267	My question also goes to Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen. SV has discovered that the oil fund has invested in an enterprise in Singapore producing landmines. Landmines are therefore prohibited by an international agreement of 1997, and Norway was one of the drivers with Canada in order to obtain this international ban. We also gave the Nobel Prize to Jody Williams, as a result of this international convention against the production and distribution of landmines. In addition, we have discovered that we invest our savings in Burma, a country that Norwegian authorities strongly warn against investing in. We have discovered that we invest in many of the world's leading tobacco companies, such as tobacco companies. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland is now using a lot of energy to say that companies are producing the most harmful of all products. We have discovered that we have holdings in companies that have genetically modified products, which Norway strongly warns against being able to patent – just to mention something. In addition, we also have holdings in companies that produce ammunition with depleted uranium. I must admit that I am ashamed that we spend the savings on this. What does the Minister of Finance say about that? Does he feel ashamed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e278	I very much sympathise with the concern behind the question put by Mr Djupedal. There has been a lot of work to find ways to take ethical considerations into account in the investment of the Petroleum Fund, but it has proved very difficult. In particular, it must be assumed that there is a need for general investment criteria so that it is possible to easily determine whether a company should be included or not. And then it is that Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance cannot themselves examine each company in an investment universe consisting of 20,000 companies – many groups with very varied activities, and many groups where the business changes relatively quickly. And that's why it's hard at any time to get an overview of what the individual companies you've invested in have in their activity. Furthermore, it must also be possible to verify it. Another important element is that there must be a connection between what we do inside and outside. And so the Norwegian State has also invested in companies that produce weapons. Kongsberg and Raufoss are important examples of that. The size has discussed this question several times. The Bondevik Government proposed three ethical guidelines, on environmental criteria, on the active use of voting rights in relation to human rights and the environment and in relation to tobacco products. And then a clear majority in the Storting went against the proposals to use voting rights. It was only the question of the Environment Fund that was endorsed by the Stortinget. I would assume that an important balance that was at the root of the Great Britain at the time was the great practical difficulties in following the ethical guidelines. The government will base the balances of the Stortinge here, and I think it is very difficult to propose a concrete, ethical guideline for the activity of each company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e291	This was very discouraging – that the Norwegian Finance Minister accepts that we use our savings to invest in an enterprise where they produce landmines, which through a Norwegian and a Canadian initiative is banned in 139 countries around the world, and so that we allow ourselves to say that we don't care about this, because it's too difficult to do. But 13 pst. of all U.S. pension funds now have ethical guidelines. 13 pst. of the largest speculators in the world have investment profile guidelines. And more and more Norwegian fund managers also now have guidelines for the environment and ethical profile, simply because it becomes a moral and ethical dilemma that Norway is constantly going to have one tab on human rights and the environment, while on the other hand we are a raw big speculator who invests only after profit and not according to what other reasons to take. I must be allowed to challenge the Minister of Finance once again: does he really think that we should allow our savings to be invested in companies that produce landmines, or will the Minister of Finance actually try to take an initiative so that we do not face this international shame as it actually is?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e298	What I tried to say in my answer was that I have great sympathy for the question that the representative is raising, but that both different governments and the Stortinget have discussed several times the possibility of making ethical boundaries. A majority in the European Parliament has argued that it is very complicated to find general guidelines on the basis of which the activities of the Petroleum Fund can be based. That's a conclusion that I'm basing on for my part, and then I'm going to take with me the problem that the representative here is raising, which has also come up in the media in the last few days, and get an opportunity to make a further assessment of it. But so far it has not been considered by the Government to be possible to design practical guidelines. I note that a large majority in the Grand Duchy has also taken this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e303	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e306	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. It is partly a period of disaster in Europe that concerns food security and food production. We have recorded that Germany is completely refocusing its agricultural policy. We have recorded that the leader of the Workers' Party describes the situation in agriculture as dramatic. The conversion made by Germany is largely in line with the big news from the Bondevik government, presented by Kåre Gjønes, followed by the Stortinget, to which the Labour Party joined. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is therefore: do we see that we need to invest in small-scale agriculture in the future, as the agricultural message suggests, rather than in industrialisation? And how has the Minister of Agriculture followed up what the Storing Message said, and to which the Storing agreed, that 10 pst. of the area in Norway shall be given priority to organic farming? [[The President clubs.]] How are the measures described after the treatment followed up by the Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e315	The president reminds me of the speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e318	There is no doubt that what the representative Lilletun describes as a very serious situation in European food production is a situation description that I fully share. Europe has definitely got a wake-up call, and we see that there are exciting processes going on in relation to changes in EU agricultural policy, not least by Renate Künast, the new minister in Germany. However, I must also be allowed to say that Norwegian agriculture is already much more small-scale and environmentally-friendly, taking into account animal welfare and animal ethics, than any conversion of German agriculture will be based on the considerations that Mrs Künast has put forward so far. We have an average size in Norwegian agriculture, for example. within milk production, of 12 to 13 cows. And even though Renate Künast is putting in line with what she has so far said, the future German agriculture will be of a completely different structure than what we actually have in Norway. What's my point is that we have a good starting point. It's important to take care of, and at the same time it's important that we don't rest on our laurels. I therefore agree with Mr Lilletun on his point. I think what we now need to do in Norwegian agriculture is take a power cap in relation to organic farming. So far, we've been working on different market strategies, which are also described in the paper. But in connection with the spring agricultural settlement, we would like to invite the state to what I have so far called a power package for increased ecologization in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e327	I thank you for the answer, which was to some extent appropriate. Obviously, Springlord has equipped Norway and Germany quite differently when it relates to land, so it's obvious that the structure won't be equal. But the main principle of balance in relation to ecology that lies in the German Minister's proposal is entirely in line with what Mr. Gøhne and the Government of Bondevik presented. In the agricultural sector now, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party support a strengthening of organic farming. But at the same time it is important, as the party leader in the Labour Party also said, that one also looks at Norwegian agriculture in relation to structure, in relation to whether we are working on a structure within slaughterhouses, dairies, etc. with too large transport distances. For this reason, my follow-up question is: will the Labour Party now cooperate with the agricultural organizations and cooperate with the centre party in the Stortinget, as one had about the message, and not seek cooperation with Right, which involves a more industrialized agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e334	As usual, the government will seek to have a majority of its policies. The starting point will be that the Government will consider that what comes from the Government is best for Norwegian agriculture. Of course, I would like to invite the centre to cooperate on that policy. But it won't be that the government is willing to go on chords with its own policy of drawing the center. If you can get more impact on important policy measures along with the Right and the Advance Party, you will also have to be able to cooperate with them in the future. Of course, the starting point for the government's offer in spring's settlement is that we want to get an agreement with the farmers' organisations. We will – this year as last year – put great emphasis on that. At the same time, it is also clear that Norwegian agriculture has challenges, and if we are not able to reach agreements on how to solve those challenges, we will have to get to the Stortingen this year as last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e342	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e345	Yesterday, SV submitted a proposal to the Stortinget to get their own survey on organic farming. We now believe it is necessary to have a comprehensive review of agricultural policy in the light of what is happening around us in Europe. To date, the signals from agriculture in Europe and from the Minister of Agriculture have been very positive in relation to it. He says sail today that there has to be a take-off for this. In the view of the SV, the agricultural notification underlying Norwegian agricultural policy is not sufficient. Maybe it's also not enough to reach the 10 pst. of which there is broad agreement. Does the Minister of Agriculture agree that we need a complete review to get a management of agricultural policy in place that can provide us with safe food in a better way than what we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e352	My general starting point is that what we need in relation to organic farming in Norway today is not primarily new messages, new plans and new investigations. We need concrete measures, and we need their implementation. One of the main problems we are facing today is that a number of organic products are produced in Norway that do not arrive at the consumer as organic products. I think that one of the most important things we can do now in terms of concrete policy measures is to create a pedagogue that will ensure that the organic products we produce from both milk and meat come out to consumers, who are actually going around looking for and asking for organic products. So one of the most important measures that I think we should take now is to create an incentive system that ensures that the organic products we already have come to the consumer. I think that will be the most important basis for us to be able to expand the area and at least achieve the objectives that the Storting has already adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e359	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e362	With regard to the crisis in Europe, the main conclusion is that the hunt for cheap food has a very high price. It's not just about organic food and the amount of it, it's about the ordinary food that's in the shelves. There's going to be another focus in the hunt for cheap food. It is a political responsibility to shift the focus, so that the usual food is produced safely. I would say that it is the Minister of Agriculture who has primarily focused on the demand for cheap food here in the country. Now Europe has shifted its focus the other way. Will the Council also change its focus on regular food production? I believe that consumers in Norway are not demanding cheap food. A study from Trondheim, published recently, says that when people express their opinion on this, cheap food is actually no. 15 on a list of 24 factors examined. Will the Minister of Agriculture reduce the focus on cheap food, as well as the demand and expectations of Norwegian agriculture to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e371	What this government has done is to implement the price concept proposed by the central government. So in the big news there was a price grip on reducing the target agricultural prices by 900 million. kr and compensate it with a tax scheme. We have. The focus I have had on prices is that the reduced target prices should benefit consumers, that they should not lead, for example, to: already by well-rich buyers will have increased their margins as a result of poorer payment of the farmers. I'm so absolutely going to keep that price focus. I believe that it is completely unreasonable that Norwegian consumers do not benefit from the reduced producer prices of farmers. But I have also been quite clear in the debate and said that so far it is quite obvious that the farmers have done their part of the job in terms of price. Now the other thing that has to follow up. It's a fight I absolutely don't have any plans to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e378	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e381	I believe that the agricultural communication provided a good basis for future sustainable development in Norwegian agriculture. Then we got a farm settlement, where the Workers' Party was together with the right hand side of Norwegian policy. In my opinion, this led to a significant step towards a more industrialised Norwegian agriculture. Now it's a fact that we have a different topography, and we have far fewer growth days than the countries that we usually compare with, and that is said to compete with in terms of price. We now get signals from different places in Europe that it's time to stop and think about it. Are we going in the right direction, given the industrialization of agriculture that has happened? Has this also led to a pause of thought for the Minister of Agriculture, which means that he takes account of the topography and growth conditions we have in Norway, so that the next agricultural settlement takes account of the fact that we are going to have a smaller scale of agriculture in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e388	If you relate to, for example: milk production, the point of intersection when last year's agricultural settlement began to work, was clearly positive at approximately. 12-13 cows. It can hardly be described as a simulation of an industrialised agriculture. I just want to say that it is not possible to describe it as an industrialization of agriculture. I believe very strongly that the focus is on supporting a professional farmer, supporting a farmer who is going to be present on the farm, who is going to follow in what is happening in the poultry, who is going to have an overview of whether the animals are healthy or sick, who is going to learn their profession really well from the use of pesticides, from the use of fertilizers and from focusing on the demanding challenges of producing food, is definitely taking the whole challenge we are now facing in Europe seriously. It's not certain that running a farm just like a beekeeper is equal to safe food.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e393	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e396	I notice that the focus has been very changed from what was Lilletun's inception, namely the disaster in Europe, to what is almost related to the internal affairs at the centre of agricultural policy. What I find disappointing is that when our neighbours are exposed to a disaster, we try to cut cheap political points towards one industry in this country. When Kongshaug talks about industrialization as a consequence of the agricultural settlement last year, which at best can increase the number of cows from 12.5 to 12.7, I can't understand how fine-tuned the central government was in its agricultural message, which added to a moderate structural development. My question to the Minister of Agriculture, who was involved in the agricultural notification and the treatment of it, and who agreed to the conciliation with the centre, is: Was it such that the centre had a different proposal for the development of agriculture than a moderate structural development, which means that there is a slightly greater use than the tiny ones we have in Norway, which is so small that people have a full job alongside?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e406	It's not like the big message that the central government sent out, and that we chose to leave in Stortinget, is 100 pst. in all possible areas. But at one point in terms of structural development, the notification is quite precise, and it goes on the large and important production that exists in District Norway, i.e. milk production, which is, of course, the bearer of Norwegian rural agriculture. There is a fairly precise message in the sense that it is said that it will be necessary to add up to a reasonable structural development over time. Of course, we also have the same opinion and added up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e411	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e414	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. Governments have traveled around the districts preaching a message about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, that with that policy the rural areas would be destroyed. Of course, that's not the case. I would like to remind you that the Labour Party has been responsible for agricultural policy in Norway most of the time after the war, and what has happened in that period? I will take one example: from 1976 to 1997, we spent 500 billion kroner injected into the agricultural sector, and mainly in the districts when we count on the protection aid. In the same period, we had the largest migration from the districts to the central struts in Norwegian history, and we had over half of the number of farmers. We have the highest food prices in stores, the biggest transfers and many dissatisfied farmers. [[The President clubs.]] Would it not be sensible for the Minister of Agriculture to focus on good, constructive agricultural policy solutions rather than on the policies of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e425	The President regrets that he has to use the club to shoot back at Mr. Hedstrom!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e428	I spend most of my time working on the solutions that the Government believes are necessary to address all the challenges facing agriculture. However, it must also be allowed to spend some time describing the consequences of the agricultural policy of political opponents. I stand fully on – I am fully on – the description that if the agricultural policy of the Progress Party had been implemented, it would in a very short time have led to a breakdown of the rural agriculture that we know today. Simple grip – as I can prove – is that, in the context of the state budget for this year, almost half of agricultural transfers in one year were proposed, that all livestock concession rules should be abolished, that all quota regulations should be proposed, and that any geographical differentiation should be abolished. This would, of course, have led to the fact that the whole of rural farming as we know it today, could have immediately been met with the use of the best agricultural areas, which are here in the East, and could have produced as much milk as you would have wanted, or as much pig as you would have wanted, or as much poultry as you would have wanted, here close to the market, without any restrictions whatsoever from the authorities. It would have been almost unimaginable to imagine that residents of the Lierne in the North Trøndelag, that settlements in More and Romesdal, in Finnland and in the Nordic countries could have any opportunity to oppose the industrialised agriculture for which the Progress Party is systematically in favour. To point out that the second largest party in the country is in charge of such an agricultural policy, I believe that it is absolutely a task for the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e437	I note that the Council of State does not answer the question, but still criticises the policy of the Progress Party rather than finding constructive solutions to the problems we have in agricultural policy. I would like to remind you of a Swedish Council of State – the Swedish Minister of Industry – who recently said that Norway is the last Soviet state. I suppose that's the agricultural sector he was thinking about! Many laws and regulations stem from the interwar period. I will take one example: look at Finland and the conversion and restructuring they're doing over there! It is probably a part that grumbles over it, but they realize that it is necessary to do so in time for Finland to look forward. Isn't it time we learned from other countries? And why should Norwegian agricultural policy bear parts of the rural policy on its back? Why aren't we going to put all industries and industries alike? Is it not time for the Government to consider separating regional and agricultural policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e444	Should Norwegian farmers be able to compete under similar conditions, it is necessary to establish grant schemes such as: compensates for the fact that there is a considerable difference between the production of milk, meat, vegetables, etc. in Eastfold and to operate the same production in Finnmark. It is clear that there are completely different geographical and climatic conditions in Finnmark than in Eastfold. Therefore, it is quite natural that if we are to have competition on a level playing field, we must support Finnland agriculture — if not, it will be completely impossible to farm in Finnland. And if it's in an area I think it's all reason to sunbathe in the brilliance of a different agricultural policy than the Swedes, it's in relation to housing and district policy. If you drive south–north in Sweden and do the same in Norway, the situation is that in Norway you drive through a living country, and in Sweden you drive through a deserted landscape. The difference is Norwegian and Swedish agricultural policy. What the Progress Party wants to introduce is a Swedish model, which will lead to a desolate country also in northern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e449	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e452	I also have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I would like to follow up a bit of what has been said earlier. In the newspaper yesterday, there was a headline across the front page: ‘A world of shortage’ – after the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, in his speech to the National Government Assembly of the Workers’ Party, must have said the following: ‘Most countries will see that we have a wrong course and that it needs a change to more local production. It may give higher prices, but many are willing to pay for higher quality’. I also said in the news on TV 2 last night that we should look at the structure of slaughterhouses and dairies, among other things, in view of a more local production. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: What will the Minister of Agriculture do to follow the statements made yesterday by the party leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e464	We're doing a great job, and of course, Thorbjørn Jagland hasn't taken what he says to the government, out of the loose air. In connection with the agricultural settlement in our establishment, we established our own value creation programme for Norwegian agriculture. That value creation programme has this year a budget of 100 million. kr. We've said it's the first year of a 10-year strategy, and we're going to grant at least $12 billion in the first five years. I have said that, in the course of the year's settlement, I am already prepared to increase the allocation over 100 million. kr that is now lying there. The entire purpose of the value creation programme is to address the second part of the market, the part of the market that is not about the type of goods that are exposed to competition in border trade, etc. – that is, this type of daily food on which we have a type of price challenge all the time – but that we should also address all the opportunities that lie in the most growing part of the market, which are about consumers who demand goods of special quality. Today, the situation is that we are recording an increase in imports of that type of goods, because the consumer is asking for it, but Norwegian agriculture cannot deliver it. Therefore, we buy hams from Italy and Spain and contribute significantly to the value creation of Italian and Spanish farmers. There is nothing wrong with it in itself, but Norwegian farmers need that value creation to have a good enough income development. That's why it's now the value creation program up and down. The whole idea behind this is much more local value creation, local farm shops, small and medium-sized food businesses. We're going to promote a proposition for Stortinget during the spring that's going to deal with this with origin marking, i.e. build a law that can protect that type of product, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e471	I stand here with a whole bunch of newspapers where the Minister of Agriculture says he wants to work towards larger units and lower prices of agricultural products, prices down to EU level. What the Minister of Agriculture is now saying is cosmetic changes in relation to the party leader's statement, where it says: «Culture, foot-and-mouth disease, stress among 5-year-olds and violent TV series scares Ap-leder Thorbjørn Jagland. “Now we have to change the policy in order not to tip over.” To drive talking about changes on small margins, where we might be able to talk about 2 pst. So organic production, while the rest of agriculture is going to go towards larger units, lower prices and, over time, fewer and fewer units, is with respect not to report a response to what it must be perceived as when you read and hear Thorbjørn Jagland's statement, as a dramatic reversal of agricultural policy. I would therefore like to repeat the question: is it simply a blow in the air that the foreign minister and party leader of the Workers' Party have come along with, or will there be any follow-up to other than small cosmetic changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e482	Now I have understood that it has done in the last few days, that Enoch and the Center Party, Morten Lund and others, are going around and describing this fantastic Norwegian agriculture as opposed to European agriculture, and now it is very important that we take care of this small scale of Norwegian agriculture, the environmentally friendly agriculture. The fact that the same Center Party and the same Enoxen have systematically been against the policies that have led to this amazing agriculture, we are left in this context, but it is clear that our starting point is that we are going to take care of a small-scale agriculture. I think one of the most important ingredients in small-scale agriculture is that of course we produce goods that have a market – that's point 1. Therefore, it is important that our products have a price that makes Norwegian consumers want to buy them. But it's also very important that we have farmers who should focus on being farmers. Therefore, we will give priority to the full-time bond, and we will give priority to increasing local value creation, because there we have great market opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e487	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e490	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question about the organisation of the Directorate-General for Fisheries' external offices. In my opinion, what is now happening is developing in a way that is contrary to the clear assumptions of the Stortinget that led to the introduction of the scheme and the reorganisation at all. One of these assumptions was that the services should be geographically close to the fishing environment and accessible to users. What has been implemented so far is the closure of the fisheries offices in the districts in favour of urban centralisation, often without a fishing environment at all. We are in a situation that is experienced as the raging of natural and important infrastructure in the fisheries districts. What characterises the situation is a lack of management and an organisation that does not take account of the users but more of the employees. My question is then: Does the Minister for Fisheries think that what is now happening is in line with the Storting's assumptions, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that this is a service for the users and not for the employees and the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e499	In my opinion, the Directorate-General for Fisheries' external office, as it appears today, is a service that is well adapted to the needs of users. But this is the way it is at the moment – and it has been quite a long time – that you do not have full coverage of fisheries law leaders in all municipalities. I would like to point out that since this system was introduced, the fishing industry has also changed significantly. There is no need for advice on industrial policy and day-to-day operational issues similar to those of previous years. The development that has taken place has been an adaptation to the resources that have been available and the tasks that have been faced. I believe that we still need to strengthen the local authorities' focus on the organisation of fisheries, and that this will be natural tasks for municipalities in the future. However, I cannot see that the reorganisations that have been carried out have significantly made the service less accessible to users, especially at a time when modern communications and new facilities allow matters to be handled in different places without the local proximity being decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e506	I agree with the Council of State that there is a change in the need for guidance and counselling services, but the changing needs do not mean that we can move services from where the fishing environment is, and into cities that hardly have a fishing boat, and that it does, we have many examples around the country. This was not in line with the assumptions that were underlying when the Storting dealt with that case. So I don't think it's a right development that's happening now. I see that the control unit, when one has merged the guidance service and the control unit, has traditionally found its place and office in a city. Would it not have been better to move the control unit from the city to the municipalities that have a fishing environment, and would it have been a base for both the guidance service and the control unit, instead of the reverse – and what is traditionally happening – to enter the cities, whether or not you need the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e513	I agree that it is important that the resources we have are used in the best possible way. However, the tasks of this service vary over time and the department is used not only for purely control tasks but also for guidance tasks. We have now had a period when the resources that we have at our disposal are to be used both for guidance and for control, and we have provided a flexible system that allows priorities to be given according to current needs. It is then that the department has sometimes found it appropriate to organise it so that resources have been moved to more local areas, but we do not have fisheries law managers present in each municipality. Therefore, you have to make the best of the resources you have available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e518	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e521	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. We have received international acceptance for our fishing zones, not least because we have an argument that they are of great regional importance. During the last year, 25 fishing concessions in North Norway have been purchased by strong fishing companies in the West, at adventurous prices. We understand that the actors are being tempted. Here fishing rights are sold for 30-40 million. kr, and there are rights to cod, sheath, herring, solder and shrimp. And there are no local actors, for example: in Finnmark, which has the financial strength to resist this. Will the geographical zoneing of fishing rights be maintained and strengthened in order to increase the ability to safeguard the fishing rights of the regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e528	I have recorded that there has been a discussion in the press where the number 25 has been suggested regarding boats that have been sold. The actual conditions, however, are that no fishing boats were sold – we are talking about trawlers – in 1999 from Finnmark and south, while two were sold last year and two this year. In addition, I know that there are three boats in a process where you have applied for permission to sell them southwards, and that the boats that today have delivery obligations for plants in Finnmark will release these delivery obligations because they are sold to active fishermen. I have to say that this is a development that worries me. It was the Minister for Fisheries Angelsen in his time who changed the decision of the previous Labour Party government, saying that, as a general rule and as a principle, delivery conditions should not be imposed when it comes to active fishermen. I think what we've seen lately, where companies want to finance a bad operation by selling the boats at the highest possible price to active fishermen, is not a wise policy. I have therefore instructed the Directorate of Fisheries that the handling of these matters should be stopped until we can assess what is involved. I strongly believe that the delivery obligations that are formally specific to the fishing industry in Finnmark and other locations in North Norway should be accepted, and that these are the conditions that the boats have been given and that have their specific purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e537	It is also stated in the press that only 4 out of 19 trawlers have maintained their delivery conditions, and these are conditions that North Norway cannot live with. I am pleased that the minister is concerned about this. I also think that when we are going to distribute new rights, we should perhaps think a little bit about it, so that we do not make the rights enforceable, and that rights of use should be more closely linked to the region. Does the Minister see it as a conflict between the rights of the region and the private economic assessments made by the boat owners and the fishing industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e544	I can assure you that with the capacity we have in Norwegian fishing fleet, it is completely out of date to distribute new trawl permits. However, it is equally important that the permits that we have and that have a special connection to the districts – because through these delivery conditions they have – are established. This is as I said instead, known for the companies that dispose of these, and it is known for those who invest in the companies, and so it must be. But I think it's hard to link this to anything other than the active companies, because it would be a very difficult situation to get this funded in the future. But the important point here is that the commitments that are firm should remain there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e550	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e553	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Although the Progress Party has been working for many years to remove the annual charge on the car, we are once again seeing evidence that the annual fee only increases and increases. For several years, the Labour Party has stated that it is more reasonable to own a car and, where appropriate, to use a car more expensive. Nevertheless, the year’s budgetary settlement has resulted in a considerable amount of time spent by the Minister of Finance in boasting of a relatively modest reduction in the petrol tax, while at the same time a further increase in the annual tax on cars has been achieved. Then it becomes relevant to ask what is really the government's view. Should it be expensive to own a car and cheaper to use a car, or should that be what the Workers' Party has said before, namely cheaper to own a car and more expensive to use a car? What are the drivers actually expecting from the Government in the future? Can we see anything about reducing these charges, or is it more expensive both to own and to use a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e560	In fact, I think it was quite good that the government was able to agree to the first reduction in the petrol tax that we have seen since the introduction of the distinction between lead-free and unleaded petrol. I also think it is quite good that we have seen a reduction in the diesel tax for the first time. So the representative says it's of limited scale. If there are modest reductions in the tax on petrol and diesel, what happens in relation to the annual tax must be very modest, because the changes in the annual tax are far, far, far less economically than the impact of reduced petrol and diesel taxes. The government has intended and had as its starting point that the total level of taxes on petrol and diesel had come too high. Therefore, the Government submitted proposals to implement a reduction. And I have to say, as I was also involved in my reply to the representative Foss, that I think it's more important to achieve things than to talk about things. It is quite right that the Progress Party is talking about the petrol tax, talking about the annual tax, talking about the diesel tax, etc., etc., but it is not that we then had the opportunity to exercise influence on the budget and actually entered into a budgetary agreement with the Bondevik Government for 1998 and 1999, so a reduction in the petrol tax, or then a reduction in the diesel tax or then a reduction in the annual tax. It's not like that. It's not like we're seeing again what the Progress Party argues with regard to cars, in the budgets for which the Progress Party actually got a majority together with the Centre Parties and the Right. There was no reduction in the petrol tax, no reduction in the diesel tax. There has been, on the other hand, in this government's budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e569	I note that the Minister of Finance believes that the fee that is now due around the thousand homes is a modest fee, and that means that the Government has no ambition to do anything about the annual fee. Then I would like to ask another question. Motorcycles and caravans are vehicles used half the year. At the same time, they are subject to a significant charge. In the past, questions have been raised in this room about whether it is possible to imagine a halve of the fee in line with the time of the year when a motorcycle or a caravan is actually used. The insurance companies for their part are just insuring motorcycles and caravans according to the time of the year in which they are used. Would it not then be natural for a government that would not reduce the levy in general, at least to consider the possibility of halving the levy on vehicles not in use on the roads throughout the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e576	Let me first correct a misunderstanding with the representative. She talked about a government that won't set the fees down. But the government has reduced the car-related charges. This is the first government that has reduced the fuel tax, the first government that has reduced the diesel tax. Therefore, it is not that this government will not reduce the fees. We've done it. We haven't just talked about what we've actually done. The second is that I did not say that the annual fee is modest. I said that if you talk about the change in the petrol and diesel tax being modest, the jam change in the annual tax must be very modest, because it is significantly less than the change in the petrol and diesel tax. With regard to the relationship between using and owning a car, the total fees relating to annual taxes, petrol taxes and diesel taxes under Norwegian conditions were significantly reduced in the budget proposal on which the Labour Party Government based. As far as the scheme of the annual fee is concerned, the Government currently has no plans to amend it. I record the views of the representative and take them with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e585	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e590	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 14, from the representative Randi Karlstrøm to the Minister for Agriculture, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2. Questions 17 and 18, from the representatives of Laila Kaland and May-Helen Molvær Grimstad respectively to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative of Magnhild Melting Company Kleppa to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e603	Before we begin the ordinary Questionnaire, the President will draw attention to that case no. 2 on today's map, interpellation by Hallgeir H. Langeland's representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will have to be deleted because the interpellant is ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e609	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In the last five years, the fees charged by the Brønnøsund Registers, the Ship Registers and the Patent Board have provided the country with a net profit of nearly 800 million. krones. This means that Norwegian enterprises pay far more for the service than the cost of the country. In addition, it appears that there are unclear accounting figures as to what the actual cost of each service is. What will the Council of State do to strike a proper balance between the actual cost and the fee to be paid to the registers by the Norwegian business community?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e618	The three mentioned registers, the Brønnøsund Registers, the Ship Registers and the Patent Board, provided the country with a net income of approx. 780 million. kr. The situation for the three registers is different, so I have to be allowed to spend some time talking about each of them. In the past, the Patent Board has made a smaller overall profit in its accounts. This is due, inter alia, to: that the increase in applications received has been greater than budgeted. The Patent Board implemented a change in the fees from 2000 onwards, when differentiated patent application fees were introduced to pay particular attention to the smallest enterprises. For 2001, the Patent Board has a budget that balances. There is no goal for the Patenary to go ahead with profits. The ship registers cover Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register – NOR – and Norwegian International Skip Register – NIS. For 2001, there are budgeted revenues of 10 million. NOK and expenses with a little less than 7 million. kr. This is therefore a very small part of the amount to which the representative Gabrielsen refers. Nor is it an objective for the Ship Registers to carry a profit. For the Brønnøsund Registers, the fees are linked to the legal fee and the amount of the fee is fixed in the annual budgetary procedures. The legal fees shall be the payment for the services received from the judiciary. The Brønnøsund Registers were established by the transfer of the trade registers from the local courts to an overall business register, which is the background for the establishment of the fee linked to the legal fee. In recent years, the size has increased the legal fee in order mainly to provide funds for the necessary renewal of the justice sector, which has automatically increased the fee and thus the increase in income also for the Brønn Island Health Registers. However, some changes have been made in 1996 when the fee was higher, but then it was reduced, so that the fee per person. the present company is below that in 1996. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has long been and is committed to making the best possible use of business. Both the pricing of public services and not least their quality are important in this context. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade took over responsibility for the Brønnøsund Registers on 1 January this year. We now have in the work plan that we should look at the fee situation in general. In that case, the focus will be on the situation of small enterprises. We will also look at the different registers and their services in relation to the fee size. It is true that the Brønnøsund registers in their accounts today do not have separate figures for their individual registers or services. We will also look at this in more detail. I would also like to point out that the activity of the Brønn Island Health Registers has evolved over time. In addition to traditional register functions, they have now had an important role to play in simplification and renewal. So we want to review the whole system, especially for the Brønnøysund registers, and see how the entire work of the registers can be better funded in the future. Finally, I would like to say that it is a very important area for Gabrielsen to raise questions about. I will come back when we have completed the review that we are now starting with regard to the charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e637	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I feel is very good in the sense that she takes the matter seriously, on a tight arm in terms of the amount of the fees. In that sense, I agree that, in principle, business must pay for the services they receive. The fact that we add up to rates that are significantly higher than the real cost means that legitimacy does not turn out to be the way it should be. The other relationship that I understand the Council of States will also look at is this with the accounting figures, so that you have an exact knowledge of the cost and thus can better praise these things. It is true that the state has imposed restrictions, for example. for municipalities in respect of fees – they shall not exceed 100 pst. of the cost. Does the Council of State think it would be reasonable for this type of gee-payer to have a maximum ceiling which actually means that the State will have to cover the real cost, but that it does not appear to be a fiscal charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e644	This is a relationship that we should definitely go into. I believe that for both the Patent Board and the Ship Registers it should be relatively easy to implement these arrangements. In other words, the Brønnøsund registers, as they are as linked to the justice sector as they actually are, have also led to changes not least from Stortinget every year. However, a review should definitely also reflect the individual services, and there we do not have a good enough overview today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e649	I believe that the Council of State takes the matter and somehow comes back to Stortinget with the result of this. I could only imagine finally asking the Council of State in connection with the study she is now launching: what time perspective do you have, and in what way will the Stortinge will be briefed on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e654	I would think it was natural for it to be included in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e662	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Minister of Fisheries’s reply to Mr Bastisen’s questions in regular Question Time on 28 February may be interpreted as meaning that a 24-hour continuous coastal surveillance or parts thereof will be based on so-called user funding. Already today, shipping must cost significant parts of the Coastal Coastal Preparedness. These services are overlapping. It may seem that this is becoming a dairy cow for the country. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible policy on shipping?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e671	Maritime safety is a central maritime policy objective of the Government. As the Minister of Fisheries said on 28 February, the Government assesses a number of measures to prevent accidents and looks at the overall preparedness for pollution along the coast, which I believe has also been answered in the past in connection with questions from the representative, Mr Kleppe. One of these measures is increased monitoring of maritime activity along the coast. Monitoring of maritime activities along the coast is an important measure to alert and intervene in relation to ships that have had problems, thereby preventing accidents. In principle, the necessary monitoring of coastal traffic should be user-funded, in the same way as when a ship needs to be unloaded and has to buy it as a service. However, we cannot charge ships that go along the coast without calling at the Norwegian port. Therefore, the financial instrument is complicated and not entirely linked to the way in which expenditure is incurred. In addition, both the technical means of monitoring and the need to keep track of traffic along the coast are in strong development and change, so that we are now in a process of adapting to new developments. From a maritime policy point of view, it is important that a monitoring system complying with the requirements of safe maritime transport should be established, and we want the financing of these tasks to be user-based. The concrete design is now being discussed between the maritime administrations and the Coastal Administration. The current work is a survey of the country’s overall resource use aimed at safety related to coastal shipping. It is therefore premature to determine now how monitoring is to be carried out and what costs this will entail for industry and for the country. This will be a matter of its own later for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e686	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is also known that Norwegian authorities are now working with requirements for the introduction of electronic ship identification, and in this respect, the Minister of Fisheries already concluded agreements for the exchange of information on shipping. There is concern about the shipping industry because it is necessary to keep some of the information in their possession secret because the shipping industry will take care of its interests and protect them. Does the Minister share the industry's concern about such information?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e693	I do that absolutely, but at the same time, the security and the ability to intervene on a more preventive level will be an important task for us as politicians. There has also been a relationship that the representative Kleppe has been involved in, how we can manage to join the monitoring system as early as possible. Now, the Coast Guard and Defense have different surveillance systems, and what's going to happen now is that we have to try to coordinate these so that we don't have the overlap that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e698	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know she's very busy with this. She's also impatient, in line with what the Progress Party and I are. However, it is also claimed that the exchange of such data could cause problems with respect to the demarcation of what one may exempt from the public. It is clear that when one looks at the important information that exists, it may also be tempting in the historical context to see that the information we have as a shipping nation should not come into the hands of other nations and others that have other interests in Norwegian shipping. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if they will also do something in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e703	The relationship that the representative here raises is important, and we should also take that into account in the further work, because in the case of business secrets, it is clear that there are opportunities to exempt information.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e708	So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e715	‘In the reindeer management agreement, it is set at 20 million. crowns in exceptional funds due to the economic crisis of the reindeer families. Which criteria shall this be broken down to?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e722	Friday, March 2nd this year, the Ministry of Agriculture has promoted the Ministry of Agriculture St.prp. No 52 for 2000-2001, on measures against cow disease, measures against the Q meierines and measures in the reindeer industry. In this proposition, the Ministry of Agriculture, inter alia: put forward proposals to allocate 20 million. ad hoc aid for major losses and production failures in reindeer management in parts of East Finland, West Finland and Trom reindeer pastures. This measure has been specifically addressed by the Government and not as part of the ordinary reindeer management agreement negotiations concluded on 27 February of this year. With regard to the distribution of these funds, the proposal states that the aid should be applied to the holdings in the most severely affected districts and then linked to the production failure of the industry over the last few years, irrespective of, inter alia, causal factors such as: large predatory losses, adverse climatic conditions and broken pastures. However, the amount has been proposed for capped. 1151 and is assumed to be administered through Rein driftsmanagement as exceptional business support. The detailed guidelines for the aid scheme will be drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture in consultation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Landsförbund and Sametinget of Norske Rein driftssamer. The final adoption of the guidelines will only be possible after the size has dealt with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e729	Fears are expressed from several practitioners who are in crisis because they have suffered significant losses for several years and have therefore fallen outside all the arrangements of the reindeer management agreement, where required, inter alia. a certain percentage of slaughter. They are afraid that those who have not received State aid, i.e. those who have fallen out of the scheme and who are actually the most affected are condemned to go down financially in order to rehabilitate practitioners in this way. It has been a political goal to reduce the number of holdings. Can the Minister ensure that all those in crisis, including those who have fallen outside the ordinary arrangements of the reindeer management agreement, but who have a holding, will have a share of the 20 million?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e734	As I said in my main response, the aid should be applied to the holdings in the most severely affected districts, and then linked to the last years of production failure in the industry. Based on my assessment of the supplementary question, it may not be that one has had such a major production failure that one has fallen out of the nutrition contract would have the effect of preventing ad hoc aid from being granted. The representative Karlstrøm and the Business Committee will now be given the opportunity to provide some guidance on the final guidelines by now considering St.prp. No 52 before the guidelines are laid down. Initially, I would like to say that I share Karlstrøm's assessment, and would like to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e739	When there is an economic crisis, women have to go out to make money for the household. Traditionally, they have carried out meat processing and skin processing in the reindeer and have a significant competence. This is a very topical question when there is both a crisis and a rate of value creation in the industry. I think there has to be a special effort against women in order for the value creation programme to help increase the income of those households that are currently in crisis, and not become a consultant for the Norwegian Investor Forum. In conclusion, I would just like to ask: will the Minister report on the distribution of these extraordinary resources in the future state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e744	I have no clear opinion on how to report on how to use these funds, but I notice the wish as expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e749	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e755	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘Nordic alcohol levies are a significant contribution to the borderline leakage. Statistics from the Association of Wine and Wine Importers show that more than 1 million Norwegians traded wine and spirits in Sweden and Denmark last year. Alcohol is purchased at Systembolaget in Stroemstad as in Fredrikstad, Moss and Sarpsborg together. Will the Government propose to reduce the taxes on alcohol in the revised budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e764	The aim of the high taxes on alcohol is primarily to limit alcohol consumption. There is reason to believe that the high charges have contributed to Norway’s significantly lower alcohol consumption than other countries. Consumption of pigs and beer has increased steadily in recent years, and the unregistered consumption of these products is low. Data from the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research indicate that border trade in these products is also relatively low. The placing on the market of the wine monopoly of weak wines increased by 66 pst. from 1990 to 2000. During the same period, the turnover of spirits fell by 21 pst. About half of the brandy consumption today comes from unregistered sources such as smuggling, home burning, border trade and tax-free trading. For the Government, it is desirable to bring the brandy consumption into more registered forms. Reduced fees for spirits will make smuggling and home burning less profitable and can help reduce tourist imports. This was part of the background for the Government to propose to reduce the tax on spirits by 15 p.m. in connection with the VAT reform of 1 July 2001. However, in the context of the budgetary agreement with the central parties, this reduction in fees was not adopted. I am therefore not proposing reductions in alcohol taxes in the context of the revised 2001 national budget. The government is aware that the development of taxes in Sweden could help to put pressure on alcohol taxes in Norway over time. Sweden will gradually liquidate its specific import quotas for alcohol and tobacco until 1 January 2004. With more liberal import quotas, Sweden may reduce the taxes on alcohol in the years to come, but no decision has yet been taken on this. In particular, in the light of tax developments in Sweden, the Government will review the alcohol levies in the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e775	I want to get into the last state council took up. Not only Sweden, but also Finland and Denmark are facing major changes in the charging policy. It is clear that when they join the EU's quotas, significant amounts could be taken into account when travelling in the EU's low-priced country for alcohol. In 2004, it will be possible to import 10 litres of spirit, 20 litres of liqueur wine and 90 litres of wine. This will, of course, put a strong pressure on the governments of these countries to keep a certain level of control, as the Council of State used as an expression, with its own sales and sales, so this will certainly force itself forward. This is, of course, an important element of the border trade leakage. Does not the Council of State not see that the pressures and pressures on the commercial and service industries and those involved in trade and vices – we have an incredibly long border with Sweden – are increasing and that they are coming into the backyard competitively?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e782	Yes, and there was some background for the Government to propose a nominal reduction in the brandy fee of 17,5 p.m. But I conclude that the Storting did not join it. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e787	There have also been surveys among the Norwegian people. A large study carried out by a gallup institute in 1999 showed that there was a significant majority in all batches for reduced alcohol charges, except in the Christian People's Party. Even the National Council of the abstinence people wants these charges to be reduced, precisely in order to reduce crime in this area, as the Council of State did. There is therefore a significant majority in the Norwegian people who do not want any special arrangements for Norway but want to move towards harmonisation in Europe. Don't the Council of State think it should make sense to listen to these almost unisony advice coming in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e792	Yes, but if the representative wants to hear what I'm saying, I'm going to repeat that we proposed 17.5 pst in the budget. reduction of the spirits tax, but Stortinget did not join it. It also states that the government sees both the problems that lie in the fact that we have a good deal of unregistered trade in spirits, and the issue of what we cannot ignore, which is a possible further reduction in taxes on the Swedish side. That was the background to the Government's proposal. But it was the case that the overall budgetary solution did not support that proposal, and I therefore find no reason to repeat it in the context of the revised national budget, but I have left it open so that the Government can come back with proposals for reduced taxes on alcohol in the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e800	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «A survey carried out in Kongswinger shows that dwellings with an approximately equal value in turnover have large differences in the value of the equation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to introduce a new and fairer valuation rules so that this injustice can be avoided for the future?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e809	The Ministry of Finance is now working on a proposal for a new tax solution, and it will be presented in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e814	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a very short and concise answer. For the Progress Party, and I also believe for all owners of housing in Norway, the question is of such a nature that it should receive a more complementary answer. Buying a home is perhaps the biggest and most important investment a family makes in life. The Progress Party has taken the consequences of this, and we want to remove all taxes on owning a dwelling. The calculation of value forms the basis of income taxes, property taxes and, in the municipalities that have them, property taxes. That's why a fair and fair rate is very important, and that all taxes have this as a basis. Can the Council of State say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e821	Of course, I agree that a fairer tariff is important. That's why I've worked out a proposal on it, and I'm going to present it to the Biggest in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e826	A valuation is also dependent on the place of residence, i.e. in which municipality you live, and also where in the municipality you live. In other words, when this is almost comparable, the value of the dwellings must also be comparable. The study mentioned two properties with a sales total of 1.8 million. SEK and SEK 1.7 million. kr, and with an equation value of SEK 499 000 and NOK 118 000 respectively. So once you add the equation value 10 pst. And then 15 pst, that's a total of 25 pst. two-year increase, the tax impact on one dwelling is about an increase. 14 500 kroner in the basis of income tax, while there is only NOK 2450 for the other dwelling. Does the Council of State see that this strikes out very unfairly as it works today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e833	Yes, I do. That's why I think it's necessary to change it, and that's what the Workers' Party has meant for a long time. There is also an important background for the Government to present a new system. We're going to provide a system based on output value, not on market value. That proposal comes in the spring. I would like to point out that the Progress Party has also voted in favour of increases in annual tariffs, at the latest in the context of the budgetary agreement with the Bondevik Government in 1998, which increased the housing tax by 5 pst. My starting point is that we have to get a fairer system, we have to get one fair system, and that's the starting point for what the government is proposing in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e843	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: «In ordinary Question Time on Wednesday 28 February 2001, Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Grete Knudsen informed that international limited liability companies may enjoy tax exemptions for as long as they have not acquired them. This shall not conflict with the EEA rules. Can an intermunicipal limited liability company not be considered as having acquisitions for the purposes of competing for tenders within the EEA territory?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e852	As a limited liability company, an intermunicipal corporation is initially a separate tax entity. However, a company may be exempt from tax liability if it does not have ‘requirements for purposes’. This is the result of a general provision of the Tax Act. This provision applies to limited liability companies, limited liability companies, clubs, associations, etc. The provision also applies regardless of whether the company is a public or private person. It is the local authorities that have to decide whether a specific company has a purpose, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade also replied to the previously mentioned question. It is necessary to determine whether the terms of the Act relating to ‘non-acquisition for purpose’ are met after an overall assessment of a number of elements. Central to the assessment, but not always decisive, are the provisions of the statutes on operation without profit. Furthermore, emphasis may be placed on how the company is financed, whether it has an ideal purpose, who the funds are due in the event of dissolution, and whether the company distributes dividends. The fact that a company competes for a tender does not in itself imply that the company must be regarded as having acquisitions for its own purposes. The task of the equality authorities in such a case will be to enforce tax law on the basis of the facts. If a company behaves in such a way as to satisfy the conditions of the law on tax-free status, it may have unfortunate distortions of competition. However, the fact that the company competes with others for commissions does not without further justification in order to conclude that the company has acquisitions for the purposes of the tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e861	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With regard to this specific case, which is based on an inter-municipal company called Waste Service, which has five municipalities, I think it is becoming more and more unclear. The objective of this non-profit concept is not profit, and then there is an ongoing assessment of whether the company has acquisitions for its purposes or not. Then there may be different interpretations from the different Equations Offices to determine this. Will the Council of State do something to make this legislation simpler, so that there is no room for different interpretations as it is concrete in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e873	No, I can't see that you can avoid elements of discretion. It's the local authorities that will have to exercise it. This makes it difficult for me to deal with this specific matter, it would be natural for the local authorities to take a stand. But it is the case in many parts of the tax legislation and the Equation Code that there is a discretion that needs to be exercised locally, and it seems to me to be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e878	It's clear that you're going to use a certain amount of discretion, but here you can get quite a lot of local variation within that discretion. A natural question would then be, what about the EEA? I don't know if this is this council table, and whether he can answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e883	Here I can only refer to the answer given by the Council of State Knudsen in the previous questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e891	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘25. In February 2000, temporary residence permits were granted to Kurdish asylum seekers from Iraq, among others. to stop inflows from third countries for family reunification purposes. It was assumed that return to Iraq would be possible in one year, which now does not appear to be the case. A practice of temporaryity that cannot provide a basis for permanent residence or family reunification this year in the future, over a long period of time, may affect human rights for individuals. What will the Council of State do now in relation to this group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e900	I have previously answered this question in a letter dated 16 January this year in response to Erna Solberg's written question No. 157. At the end of February 2000, the Government of Bondevik, with whom the representative is well-known, decided that Iraqi asylum seekers who, according to an individual assessment, did not need protection should be granted temporary authorisations which could neither form the basis for family reunification nor residency permits. The reason for this was among other reasons. the need to coordinate Norwegian practice with the practice of Iraqi asylum seekers in other European countries. An important reason for granting limited authorisations was that they would help prevent the influx of Iraqi asylum seekers without a need for protection to Norway. In addition, Norway, like other European countries, had no established system for returning persons without a residence permit to Iraq. The change in practice has not had an impact on refugees in need of protection in Norway. In the current year, the safety situation in Northern Iraq has been relatively stable. Both UNHCR and the other Nordic countries share this view. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has established a voluntary return scheme to Iraq in cooperation with the International Organization for Migration. I would therefore like to stress that it is now possible to return voluntarily to Iraq. The Foreign Administration will continue to work to implement the return of those who will not voluntarily return to Iraq. This will include, inter alia: be carried out in cooperation with other European countries. Any application for renewal of the authorisation of Iraqis under the Foreign Affairs Act shall now be decided by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs of the first instance and the Foreign Affairs Office of the Board of Appeal. The Foreign Affairs Directorate expects to receive renewal requests during this month. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs is currently working on an update of the situation and will, on this basis, work on guidelines for the handling of applications. If there is a need to change the practice of the directorate, I will consider whether to use the authority of the department to propose changes to the Foreign Affairs Act and/or the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e915	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I need some clarification on what is actually decided in this case. Is the response of the Council of State to that understanding that the temporary residence granted for one year has now ceased, since the Council of State also concerned the return and commencement of the return of Kurds to Northern Iraq? Or is it that the temporary arrangement persists? It is this ambiguity, which is very difficult for many of these Kurdish asylum seekers to live with, not least living without a family for several years, which has caused mental problems for many. It is very important to clarify whether this temporaryity is going to continue, or whether there is a clarification with also an opportunity for someone to stay, and for others, of course, not to stay where one is not in a protective situation. I also believe, based on the situation in Iraq, that there is a basis for dealing with these individual issues with liberality. But I would like to get an answer from the Council of State as to whether you actually believe that you should extend the temporary period, or whether you have stopped dealing with it under the temporary arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e922	Now, as I said, the security situation in Northern Iraq has been stable for the last year. The UN High Commissioner and the other Nordic countries agree that this is the case. That is why we have now opened up voluntary return to Iraq. With regard to what is now happening to the cases, it is the case, in the case of individual cases, that the application is to be submitted to the UDI and, where appropriate, to the Foreign Office. One expects the applications to come in during this month, and I would like to see what the UDI and the foreign student are doing to them before I say anything more about what I might have intended to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e929	The rationale for the introduction of this scheme, which the Council of State correctly explained, was to come from a third country. But after that police have got an overview, it's only 25 pst. by those who came at that time from third countries. That means that there's a fairly large group that's in a slightly different situation. In this context, I'm concerned about two things. One is liberalism in relation to these issues, which is in a critical situation despite the fact that the situation has not necessarily deteriorated significantly in the area. And the second thing I'm concerned about is that the situation after the Dublin Convention and the signing of this agreement is that the precedent effect or effects in relation to the risk of new inflows when changing Norwegian practice, or in the case of greater liberality in Norwegian practice, are not as worrying as otherwise. Following the Dublin Convention, asylum seekers should be able to have a proper system for the first safe asylum country to be in place, and otherwise the third country situation that occurred in the previous round will not be achieved. I hope that the Council of State will take note of the two reasons and base a liberal practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e934	I will, of course, take with me the signals that come from the representative here. But now, as I said, the case first goes to the Foreign Affairs Directorate, and there will be an individual assessment of all aspects of the case, and then we will see what the result will be. But we also need to maintain that what is the main basis for staying in Norway — and I say it in general — is that one needs protection, or there are other strong human interests that warrant it. It is a fact that the safety situation in Northern Iraq has been relatively stable in the last year, so it must of course also be included in that assessment. But now I think the things get going when they're going to go their way, so we'll see what the result is from it compared to whether I'm assessing whether it's something I should or should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e942	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «After the murder of the 15-year-old boy at Holmlia, the Prime Minister promised support for anti-racist involvement in the communities. The government then rejected the Rainbow Internet Coffee application for NOK 130 000. The reason is that there are no funds. In the past, the Rainbow Internet Coffee had been rejected by the UDI, which explained that the funds were to be used for the repatriation of Kosovo Albanian refugees. What will the State Council do to prevent this unique project from being abandoned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e951	In both 1999 and 2000, the UDI has supported the Rainbow Internet Café as one of several projects designed to facilitate and stimulate the return of refugees to their country of origin. The Rainbow Internet Coffee will not be supported on this basis in 2001. I fully understand that Rainbow Internet Coffee now wants to focus on racism and discrimination. However, far more applications for support for such projects have been made than the Stortingen have so far granted. The project supported by Rainbow Internet Coffee needs to be assessed against many other good applications. The application has not been completed in the department so far, and I ask for an understanding that I cannot therefore comment on this project now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e958	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Local involvement – such as Rainbow Internet Coffee – is one of many important reasons why violent racism has not been experienced in North Norway. The Internet café is a free daily offer to refugees at the two new asylum recipients, to immigrants and to all other citizens of Tromsø. The Rainbow Internet Coffee gives refugees the opportunity to learn about the situation in their home country and to keep in touch with family and friends. The Rainbow Internet Coffee creates contact and an anti-racist environment for the Norwegians in society. For immigrants and refugees, the Internet café creates integration in the long term and helps them realize their abilities. It means important resources for society. It is a shame if this project, which is one of the most important anti-racist projects in North Norway, has to be dropped after only two and a half years of operation because such a low amount of aid is rejected. The Internet café has done a great job. I hope that the Minister of State can reconsider the application and that the words ‘to strengthen anti-racist work’ will be translated into support for practical projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e967	I don't doubt that Rainbow Internet Coffee is doing a good job. All efforts against racism and discrimination are very important and very, very good. That there is also local involvement in this matter, I think it is absolutely essential to prevent racism and discrimination. But as I said, the application in this particular case is for treatment in the department, and I cannot comment on this until we have had the opportunity to complete it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e977	I have the following questions: ‘More than 6000 people have been thrown out of their homes in the last few years. Many of them waited for an hour at the social office. The alternative for these people is hospitable. At the same time, municipal and private rental properties are empty. Lack of local coordination, small and unbridled relief measures and no requirements for maximum price levels or the number of social rental homes hit people with little money. Does the Council see the need for a new regulatory framework that ensures enough cheap social rental housing and prevents homelessness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e986	I share Karin Andersen's concern about the situation of the homeless, which unfortunately we have too many in Norway. I have with wonder and despair recorded a case in Oslo in the media, which has mentioned a man who is frozen in the heels after being thrown out of a municipal apartment. This shall not happen. It was therefore absolutely necessary that Bård Folke Fredriksen, the City Council of Oslo for the elderly and the urban areas, take an initiative to improve the routines and cooperation between the housing and social affairs of the municipality, which is absolutely necessary to reduce the number of drafts and to ensure that people who are thrown out do not end up on the streets without having any place to go to or without any help. The local and regional ministry has since been in contact with both the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Trondheim. One has been informed that cooperation has been established between the housing situation and social affairs, which means that discards should not occur as a result of a lack of coordination between different municipal authorities. Most lay-offs are due to a lack of rent, but for many, the reason is a significant lack of mastery of their own economy and not just that they are not able to pay rent. Here I believe that some social offices should take a much greater responsibility than is the case in many cases today. The representative, Karin Andersen, asks if I see the need for a new regulation that will ensure enough cheap social rental homes and prevent homelessness. I believe that in order to do something about this, we need other measures than to change the legislation. As the representative is well known, both the funds for loans and grants to the Husbank were significantly increased by this year's government budget. That was absolutely necessary. In all schemes, priority is given to measures aimed at homelessness, in particular the housing allowance, which has increased significantly and which will help municipalities to give priority to different housing solutions for these groups. Hospitals and other random housing solutions are schemes I think we should get away from. They are expensive, and they are very poor alternatives in very many cases. Instead, solutions should be developed to allow people to stay in their homes. Dwellings with varying degrees of social follow-up are important to prevent discards and provide as stable and good a living situation as possible. This year's state budget is set at 5 million. kr for a development project specifically aimed at the homeless. Together with the Minister of Social Affairs, I have taken the initiative to establish cooperation with the five largest cities. I'm very pleased with that commitment and the effort that we're now starting to see the results of. All cities have received funding for local project management, and they are developing different housing solutions related to concrete health and social services. I am concerned that we maintain the division of roles we have between state and municipality in housing policy. I do not believe any further legislation, with new regulations for the municipalities, is the way to go. Economic instruments, dialogue-based cooperation with municipalities and better coordination within each municipality, I believe, are essential. Increased cooperation between municipal offices and several housing solutions with follow-up are key things that need to be put in place to improve the success of policies towards those who do not have a place to live or who live poorly and who are at risk of being thrown out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1003	I thank you for your answer. I know the government's commitment to the housing sector, which I appreciate. I believe, however, that there must be stronger grip than the Government so far has been willing to use. It's bad to witness that private landlords skin people with bad advice. Even worse, it's witnessing that municipalities are doing it, and it's happening now. For municipalities according to the municipality, a system of general subsidisation of social housing for a market rental or rent system is applied, supplemented by various small municipal housing schemes and state schemes. It may turn out to be a system that hits people with bad advice much harder than the government intends to do with its policies. We are now using a lot of money from Stortingets and the Government to build a lot more social rental homes. How are we to ensure that these dwellings remain cheap in the long term when municipalities are allowed to cancel their rentals unregulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1014	Firstly, I fully agree with Andersen's representative that more municipalities should take a much greater responsibility for the groups we are talking about than we have seen so far. I also record that the Labour Party in Oslo, where we had the terrible example that I mentioned in my main response, has addressed with the City Council in Oslo whether there are things that should be done better. I think that is a very important and absolutely necessary debate. We also have to make sure that there is a good enough cooperation between the different agencies. But so the municipalities have to take care of that, whether it's between those responsible for housing, or the social offices, and we have to make sure, as Andersen's representative was about, that we build a sufficient number of homes for those who need it. But I don't think it's enough just to build the houses, we also have to make sure that there are relief measures for those who need it, who don't have the capacity to live, and who don't master taking control of their own economy. Then we also have to make sure that we have systems that make them like this get a real housing offer and don't end up in the street. So there might be different ways to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1023	I agree with much of what the Council of State points to, but I still believe that there is a major deficiency in the reasoning. We actually want to bet billions to build up more social and reasonable rental homes. It is the Government and the SV fully agree. But how can we in the long run ensure that these dwellings actually remain cheap? This is what SV requires. We have lifted the rent regulation, and we have received a new house rental law that makes it lawful for the municipalities to operate both with the rent and market rent of the crowd, seas for the homes that would be social and cheap. Doesn't the Council of State see that in addition to all this cooperation, which is a natural task for the municipalities, we need to ensure that we have a sufficient stock of cheap, social rental properties? It is precisely the lack of structure in Norwegian housing policy that causes very many problems. Why are we going to spend billions on a system that can only prove to be a business area for municipalities if we don't take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1032	Some of the objectives of e.g. increasing the housing subsidy scheme is just to build a lot more reasonable and pleasant dwellings, and I actually believe that we will. But it is also the case that the house rental regulation law to which the representative refers, which was amended, has also joined the Stortinget, and it is clear that it also relates to the municipalities. But I'm going to encourage the municipalities to go through their policies, both in relation to their draft policies, and how the people we're talking about here are being handled, because that's what's important. And if the rents are so high that people can't afford to take advantage of this, then you have to make sure that there are other arrangements that make the people we're talking about have a place to live, whether it's state or municipal housing schemes or other ways to fix it. What we have to make sure is that we don't have people living on the street, and we have too many of them today. I agree with Andersen's representative, and I am pleased with the commitment the representative shows in relation to wanting to do something about it. But there might be different ways to do it. I have a dialogue with the five largest cities, where these challenges are greatest, and this is one of the things I'm talking to them about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1044	‘A new report by the State Health Authority reveals critical issues in the school health service. 63 pst. of Norway’s municipalities violate laws and regulations, and in a number of municipalities there is no provision of school health services at all. Will the Government provide the municipalities with earmarked funds to ensure that the statutory provision of school health services is respected or otherwise ensure that children and young people receive the health service they require?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1051	School health services are governed by local health law and by regulations on health services in schools. The school health service is a municipal responsibility and is financed through the framework appropriations for the municipalities. The Ministry of Health asked the State Health Inspectorate to supervise the school health service in 2000. Against this background, county doctors have carried out joint supervision of school health services in a sample of 60 municipalities in the country. In this sample, it has been found that although most people offer school health services, there is also a large proportion of the municipalities that do not have a school health service that is fully qualified in relation to the requirements of law and regulation. The number of municipalities in the sample where different types of breaches of the regulations have been identified is 63 pst. Health surveillance informs that the final supervisory report will be completed in a short time and that it will contain concrete proposals for the follow-up and development of the school health service. I find it natural to await this report before giving details of what specific follow-up measures may be relevant. However, I can generally assure you that health promotion and prevention work for children and young people is a focus of the Government. In this connection, I would like to mention that, in addition to the framework allocation to the municipalities, earmarked funds are also provided that benefit the school health service. In the Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2006, funding is earmarked for the school health service. In order to increase efforts in the field of psychosocial work for children and young people, the Stortinget has joined the objective of increasing health and school health services by 800 years of work during the planning period. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 summarises the experience gained with the implementation of the escalation plan to date. It should be noted that a stronger focus on the efforts of children and young people is desirable, where the development of health and school health services, cultural and leisure activities will be central. When examining the 2001 State budget, Stortinget concluded that there should be a politically adopted plan for psychosocial health work in municipalities. The plan should also deal with children and young people. The municipalities should have assessed and discussed the objective of 20 pst. of the grants to children and young people. Many municipalities have updated their plans, either as a separate plan or as part of the ordinary plans, but some municipalities have incomplete plans. The feedback from municipalities must show that the planned activity for 2001 compared to the activity for 2000 represents a real increase in the activity corresponding to the increase in the grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1070	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer and understand that we really agree on the matter. According to the supervisory report of the Health Authority, the highest priority is in secondary school failure in healthcare. This is a major regret, as it is precisely in this age group of mental and somatic problems that come to the surface – I am thinking of anorexia, bulimia, mental problems, behavioural disorders and early drug problems. It is very important, in my opinion, that these kinds of problems are discovered as early as possible in the early stages of youth. The school health service has been a security factor in this way, but unfortunately it is now given priority over other priority municipal tasks. Will the Minister of Health, when the report is complete, impose on those municipalities that do not currently have a proper school health service to ensure that it is put in place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1079	Firstly, it is important that it is not least in psychosocial areas and in the field of eating disorders — and they tend to be related to each other — that the challenges of school health are greatest. This is also why we are now placing increasing emphasis on action in those areas. I would also like to mention measures in the field of nutrition, such as fruits and vegetables at school and better diet, exercise and freedom of smoke. I can then say that even with regard to the possibilities to impose obligations on the municipalities that do not comply with the law and regulations, there is something that will be assessed in the light of the conclusions drawn in the Health Authority report.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1086	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. School health services have always been a low-level cooperation forum between parents and health professionals and to a large and invaluable extent in the prevention of health work for children and young people. This is particularly relevant in our day, where unfortunately we have a strong development of psychosomatic disorders, especially among young people, both in high school and high school. A well-functioning school health service could also dampen the pressure on child and youth psychiatry, which is also important, because unfortunately we have long waiting lists in childhood and youth psychiatry. School health services have also been an important factor in recording disability and care failures. Will the Minister of Health take steps to stimulate health professionals to apply for the school health service, as I have also registered that there is a lack of access to this service for healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1097	The last question now raised by the representative Alvheim is, of course, an important one in this context. I will also assess it, but of course I have to assess it in the light of the overall personnel needs that we are working on in the health sector. But I can assure you that it will probably also be assessed in relation to the issues related to the school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1105	I have this question for the Minister of Culture: ‘The Theatre School at Nordic Black Theatre is threatened once again by closure. The school provides alternative theatre training, qualifies students with a multicultural or ethnic minority background for jobs in cultural life and allows for the multicultural meeting. The responsibility for running the theatre school lies in several departments. Will the Council of State take initiatives to save operations in the short term and ensure a long-term and predictable framework for the theatre school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1114	In 2001, the Nordic Black Theatre receives a State subsidy from the Ministry of Culture’s budget of DKK 1 184 000. The theatre school at the Nordic Black Theatre was established in 1992. The students consist essentially of second and third generations of immigrant youth. From 1993 onward, it was estimated that 50 pst. of the budget of the theatre school of 2,1 million. financed by labour market resources. The remainder was financed by funds from the action programme for the Middle East of Oslo. Labour resources fell away from 1999 and the theatre school had problems financing operations. The Nordic Black Theatre then addressed the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, requesting support to rescue the school from closure. The Oslo Middle East action programme went in by 1 million. kr. In view of this, the four ministries decided to grant a total grant of DKK 300000 for the operation of the theatre school in 1999. In 2000, the school also received 1 million. kr from the Oslo inner East action programme, and the four departments followed up with a corresponding total grant of 1 million. kr. In the short term, the departments concerned have taken a decision to grant SEK 600 000 jointly to the theatre school in order to safeguard their activities until 1 May 2001. In the case of the remaining part of the spring semester of the year, the Municipality of Oslo – in the same way as in previous years – must contribute so that the State and the municipality can jointly take responsibility for the operation until the end of the spring semester. The Theatre School at Nordic Black Theatre has applied to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research for approval and funding under the Private School Act. The matter is being dealt with. With regard to the question of long-term and predictable frameworks for the theatre school, I have to await the treatment of the above-mentioned application by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1133	I thank you for the answer and believe that it is good that a rescue operation has been carried out that, in the luckiest case, can make the theater school hold it out this year. But two years ago, as the Council of State refers to, we were up in the same situation, with a rescue operation, with proposals for evaluation and also with statements of support from cultural life, because it must be quite clear that we need all the arenas that we have, that make the multicultural meeting possible, and that contribute to enriching the mosaic of Norwegian art and culture. What is important now is to ensure the predictable framework, and then it is the most important job that remains. It is therefore important to get the Minister of Education on the job in relation to the application for private school status. And it is important that the Council of State communicates to the Minister of Education that this is an incredibly important measure, which cannot be abandoned. So I ask, what kind of communication has there been between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, and will the Council of State ensure that this message is given to the Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1142	It is very important for me to contribute to the preservation and promotion in Norway of the great wealth of cultural expressions that our immigrants and artists with a multicultural background represent. There has been broad contact between the four departments concerned, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Church, Education and the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Culture. Moreover, support for the Nordic Black Theatre is also strong within the Oslo municipality. I have good contact with my colleagues in the Council of State on this matter, and I can promise the representative Valle that I will follow along and communicate the matter and give it what it deserves. I have also announced today that I will visit the theatre school at the Nordic Black Theatre to get into even closer dialogue with the environment. The need for actors with different ethnic backgrounds is growing strongly, both in theatres, films and TVs, and in this context it is right to stress the importance of these kinds of institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1149	I am very pleased that the Council of State will take the trip up to the Nordic Black Theatre. I hope she is as impressed by the drift up there as I was two years ago. But I want to expand the picture a little bit, because Nordic Black Theatre is a bit of a multicultural image. Now there are also several other organisations that are at risk of being deprived of money, and this at a time when the multicultural meeting is more important than ever, where there is a need for young people and artists with an ethnic minority background to be able to appear as resource people and as role models, while the Norwegian art arena is perceived as quite exclusive. It is good that more young people with ethnic minority backgrounds now have a new sea bill and take it for granted and expect the big community to give them space. In many ways, the fight for ethnic equality in this field can be compared to the struggle for women. Therefore, my question is: does the Council of State agree that for a long time in the future there will be a need for many of these organisations that have a special responsibility to convey the multicultural expression and give artists with ethnic minority backgrounds a chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1158	I agree with Mr Valle that it is very important for our multicultural artists to avoid and show the quality they represent. The Norwegian audience deserves not least that the reality of today's Norwegian society is also reflected in our various scenes and media arenas. I have had and will make further contact with the Norwegian Cultural Council to review all the different activities on the cultural arena in terms of multicultural activities, and to contribute to the long-termity and a clear state policy for this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1168	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘China appears to be among the favourites when the IOC on 13 July 2001 decides who will organise the 2008 Summer Olympics. Several organisations have claimed that China does not deserve to arrange the OL until the authorities show greater respect for human rights. What is the opinion of the Council of State, and will she discuss this with Norwegian sports organisations and Norwegian IOC members?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1177	The Olympic summer games are the world's largest sporting event, and the interest in arranging the games is very great. The organisation city selection procedures were changed in 1999 and are a multi-stage process. Interested cities first report their interest through a standardised form to the International Olympic Committee, the IOC. On this basis, the IOC board points to current candidates. The selected candidate cities then present their candidature through reports to a separate evaluation commission. The Commission shall evaluate the candidates and submit them to the members of the IOC. The location of the organiser shall be determined on this basis by a vote in plenary session of the International Olympic Committee. The organisation of summer games in 2008 is decided by the IOC itself. A central principle of the IOC is that members are not representatives of nations but are appointed on an individual basis. Norwegian IOC members thus represent the IOC in Norway and not the other way around. Therefore, the members of the IOC decide which candidate city they want to support. Choice of the venue for the Olympic Games may have political dimensions. At the same time, it is important that sport should be independent and independent from public authorities. In an international perspective, sport has, among other things: a role of cross-border bridge builders, irrespective of any political and religious contradictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1188	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I think it was somewhat defensive. China is responsible for massive violations of human rights. The country is among the worst in repressing opposition, and in the use of torture and capital punishment. The members of the Falun Gong movement are among those who are subjected to brutal persecution and repression. China also has practices to initiate clearance operations in the form of mass arrests in advance of important events. It has not been given that the OL will play a negative role in human rights in China, but the application process itself in any case provides an opportunity to address human rights issues with China and signal to China that it would be easier to support their application if they showed a willingness to change their human rights practices. I am aware that the Council of State does not have the opportunity to instruct the Norwegian IOC members. But does the Council of State see it as desirable that the IOC impose some human rights requirements in those countries that want to hold the Olympic Games?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1199	I am absolutely concerned about human rights. Of course, if Norwegian sports organisations and/or IOC members themselves wish to consult public authorities on these issues, I am open to such a dialogue. I have previously had the opportunity to address the questions with Chinese leaders and will get it back when I go to China at the beginning of May on official visits, among other things. meet with the Minister for the Media. I would then like to address questions relating to both human rights and freedom of expression and to state clearly what the Norwegian Government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1204	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Minister of Culture will take the next opportunity to address human rights in China. According to Dagbladet on 26 February, the head of the IOC inspection committee, Hein Verbruggen, insists that they will not mix politics and sports during the vote on the next summer games. At the same time, the Olympic Games are often shown to be in line with a value base based on peace and friendship. If one is to take such a value base seriously, it would be natural to give it a content that meant, for example: the requirement of respect for fundamental human rights in host countries. Does the Minister of Culture see it as desirable that one make such a distinction between sport and politics, as Hein Verbruggen calls for? Or does she see that sport can also play a political role?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1213	I have the greatest respect for the position of the IOC in this field, which is about to mix sport and politics as much as possible. As I said in my first post, I absolutely will not intervene with regard to this. At the same time, it is clear that the value base needs to be very carefully defined. I assume that the IOC will also take an overall assessment of the values that China represents in the widest possible sense, when they will finally make their final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1221	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In the 2001 state budget, it was set at 10 million. krona for the cultural school bag. The only specific measure mentioned was an idea and information catalogue for schools. Substantial efforts have already been made in some countries in this field, and there are fully developed cultural dissemination projects that can be used throughout the country. Will the Council of State ensure that funds benefit children and young people in the coming school years by supporting already established regional schemes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1230	Children and young people are a very important target group within almost all parts of the cultural sector. The action The cultural school bag has been met with great interest and enthusiasm from many teams. The Ministry has received a significant number of recordings and proposals on the occasion of the case, and the Idea Conference on 26 February gathered approximately. 170 school and cultural participants. After consultation between the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture, a working group has been set up, inter alia: shall make a professional assessment of models already in place for cultural ‘school bags’, ‘host packages’ and so on. at county and local level, taking into account the quality and the transmission value of the measures. In addition, the Group shall carry out the preparation of an idea catalogue or an example collection, which is supposed to be made available to schools and cultural institutions before the summer. This material is supposed not least to be made available via the Internet via Kulturnet Norway and the school network with a plan for a continuous update of the information gathered. In addition to the above measures, the appropriations allocated will also provide a basis for the implementation of some concrete dissemination projects around the country. On the basis of the evaluations and feedback from the working group, the Ministry will decide on the disposal of the available funds. In this context, of course, account will also be taken of the observations made by the different majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs in the Budget. S. No 2 for 2000-2001 in connection with this allocation. The number of committees included: emphasis is placed on the need for dissemination to children and young people as a central and integral part of upgrading existing cultural institutions, actions and grant schemes. The allocation will definitely benefit children and young people in the coming school years, but I am asking for understanding that it has been necessary to review the wide range of relevant activities that either already take place or are planned in many parts of the country within different economic frameworks and different organisational models.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1243	I thank the Minister for the answer. I record that a working group has been set up to assess different measures in the counties, so here it may be possible to get a positive assessment and get its share of funds in that context. In More and Romesdal, the county’s cultural services have developed ‘Culturnista’, which this school year is offered to all municipalities in the county. This has become a very popular measure in schools, but the community is struggling to finance the initiative. Of course, each state has to build up its network based on local assumptions, but one does not have to start on a barbed ground. It is now important that good experience is not lost and that both an economic and an administrative basis is laid for the dissemination of culture in schools. In Norway there are many small municipalities. There are spede municipal administrative cultural apparatus around, and the county is managed by the interests of the small municipalities, and this is especially true of the cultural area. Does the Minister for Culture agree that regional cultural management has a key role to play in managing and organising the cultural media in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1254	I agree with the representative of Kongshaug that it is important to bet on children and young people at school, as one might say. has done in More and Romesdal. The recent Oslo Idea Conference gave a number of excellent examples of how Culture-Norway and School-Norway have already engaged significantly in presenting live art and culture to Norwegian schoolchildren. My purpose and that of the department is now to ensure that this benefits as many children and young people as possible throughout our country, not only in the counties and municipalities where you are already doing well, but these have to be taken into account and examples. I will base my work to the greatest extent in the future on cooperation with county authorities and build on the excellent measures already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1259	The Minister for Children and Family has signaled 100 million. kr in fresh money for the excursion entry in order to eliminate illegal excesses on school excursions. Minister of Church and Education Trond Giske said at the Idea Conference that only the good ideas came up should it not be on money. Does the Minister for Culture agree that the good ideas are in place, and indeed are overripe? And will the Minister of Culture be as ‘speaking’ as the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Minister for Church and Education and give a signal that money will come, at least work to provide money for the good ideas that exist around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1266	I'm not going to go into overcoming the Minister of Church and Education to be broke in terms of the money side of this important cultural issue, but what I can guarantee is that we will follow up with concrete appropriations. I know, among other things. that in More and Romesdal, $40 per cent is paid. pupil to ‘Kulturnista’ from the municipalities and 100 kr per. pupils from county and state. For the whole country, this is going to be a considerable amount. We are now making a stepping-up plan for this important work, which no one believes will be free of charge, and for which we are also going to provide significant financial assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1275	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The company Energos ASA plans to establish a waste incineration plant on the property of Dynasty in Lillestrøm. The proposed location near large residential areas in Lillestrøm and Rälingen have encountered great resistance. According to the Ministry of the Environment, the municipality of Skedsmo does not have the right to require the area concerned to be regulated into a special area for the installation of the combustion plant. Does the Council of State mean that the municipality as a planning authority does not have the opportunity to say no to an unwanted location?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1284	Under the Planning and Building Act, there is no obstacle to the redeployment of the area in question by the municipality of Skedsmo or to the establishment of existing plans to prevent the installation of energy plants based on waste incineration. This was also announced to Skedsmo Municipality by the Ministry at its meeting on 23 February this year. The reason why there may have been confusion about the issue has been that the Ministry of the Environment, by letter of 15 February of this year, following a request from the municipality of Skedsmo and Energos ASA on 17 January of this year, stated that the current regulatory plan for the area did not prevent the establishment of a firing plant for industrial activities using waste as fuel. But I would like to emphasise again that the municipality can regulate the area as it wishes, thus preventing the unwanted establishment of the incineration plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1295	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I would like to stress that my commitment to this matter does not depend on this being a bad scheme, and that it has environmental consequences that I am opposed to, but the involvement goes further on the local government's chance to agree to draw conclusions both on the location of the waste facility and, if necessary, when it is to be built. So, as I understand it, Skedsmo municipality has full freedom to attend and determine both the possible location of such a waste facility and, if necessary, when it is advisable for the municipality to build such a facility. Have I understood the Council of State correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1304	In this area, the Council of State shares the commitment of the representative Svarstad Haugland, and I can confirm that this is how it is understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1309	Question 14 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1317	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Justice will not promote any notification of civil protection in the spring session. This must be a breach of Storting's premise of a comprehensive and coordinated review of both military defence and civil protection, as stated by St.meld. No 25 for 1997-1998, cf. Inner. S. No 241 for 1997-1998. Does the Council of State believe that such a lack of holisticity is acceptable in the current situation, and how does the Council of State justify the breach of the Storting assumptions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1326	That the Ministry of Justice does not submit a notice in the spring session at the same time as the Ministry of Defence's proposal, in my view, does not represent a lack of overall strength, as the representative Hernæs suggests. St. Prop. No 45 for 2000-2001 on the conversion of the defence in the period 2002-2005 indicates a fundamental change in defence. The Ministry of Justice is now considering the implications for civil protection of the notified conversion. In St. pp. No 1 for 2000-2001 was therefore expressed as a natural message of social security and preparedness was promoted after the Ministry of Defence’s proposal. This was not commented on by Stortinget. The main objective is that the measures taken on the military side, as they look after the treatment of St. Prop by the Storting. No 45, must be able to form a whole together with the measures taken on the civil side. The Ministry of Justice’s communication will also include a follow-up to the report of the Vulnerability Committee, so that vulnerability mitigation measures can be seen in the context of civil protection measures. The follow-up to the Asta, Sleipner and Lillestrøm accidents will also be presented in the Communication, as well as improvements in coastal preparedness. In addition, consideration will be given to the work of a government-appointed body which is currently reviewing its operational rescue and preparedness resources. The announced Communication on social security and preparedness will thus be able to describe new challenges in the field, including adaptation to the new defence, precisely in order to ensure maximum overall strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1337	I thank you for your answer. But we must be able to agree that what was the express condition of the Storting, that defence and civil protection should be treated in parallel, is not met with the treatment that has now been given. I assume that this government-appointed sample is the Jokkend range. Here we've got a new sample to evaluate three-four other samples, so you can keep explaining for quite a while. What I think is serious here is that it seems to be a fundamental misunderstanding in relation to the fact that we operate in Norway with a total defence concept. Then it shouldn't be that one of the pillars in the concept should be subordinate and adapted to the other, as expressed here. There should be coordination at least between the two pillars, civil protection and military defence, and that was the wish of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1346	It is true, as the representative Hernæs says, that this is what has been said earlier in St.meld. No 25 for 1997-1998 and Innst. S. No 241 for 1997-1998, and to which the representative Hernæs also refers in his question. And the reason why we talked about this in St.prp. No 1 for the current year, it was precisely the Government's intention to promote a communication on social security and preparedness after the Ministry of Defence's proposal. And when the Government proposes it, an important reason for that is just the extensive change in defence – of course, we don't know the final outcome before the Stortinget has dealt with it – and the best way to get progress and good results in this round was therefore that the proposition for defence was promoted and dealt with before final conclusions were drawn on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1351	That's this, at least to some extent, the disagreement is going on. We haven't meant it this way – at least I didn't mean it this way – that we should get a civil protection that was adapted to the Storting's treatment of military defence. We would have wanted to get the government's perception of both military defence and civil protection, but we don't get it. I just want to point out that this Jorkende Committee that has been set up is going to investigate St.meld. No 25, it shall investigate a NOU on the draft new Fire and Explosion Protection Act, it shall examine the report of the State Consultant in full and in part, and it shall examine the report of the so-called Vulnerability Committee, which, moreover, has also been in the department for a year. And then my follow-up question: When can we wait for a message to the Storting on these matters? And I must be able to also allow myself a certain heartache that we have to establish ever new samples to evaluate and evaluate what has come into being in the form of other investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1360	I would like to stress that the Jokkende Committee is not going to investigate the investigations that have already been investigated. The starting point is that the Jokkende Committee should be familiar with and take as its starting point what lies there, and based on the knowledge that can be gained from what has already been done. And I want to stress that the Vulnerability Committee – which was perhaps the broadest and most extensive of the samples that have been put down and that have produced its report – had in its conclusion a point where it was asked to put down a sample that was then just on the operational rescue and preparedness resources, because the operational rescue and preparedness resources are something else and in a way is a piece of society's total vulnerability that needs to be addressed a little separately, and where it is fragmented today, and where it is important to see the different pieces in context. So I believe that there was one of the follow-up to the report of the Vulnerability Committee that it was necessary to do. So the report of the Vulnerability Committee has not been in the department, it has now been at the hearing. The hearing period has expired, and we are in the process of following it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1368	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Minister of Justice claims that the monitoring of the external maritime border has been ensured. According to the Council of State, the EU has received a detailed presentation of our border monitoring, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Like the Storting, the EU is well informed about the continuous operation of coast radars in South Norway, the integration of surveillance systems in 2001, and the establishment of 24-hour continuous coastal surveillance. Since monitoring in South Norway is now based on three coastguard vessels, is there any misinformed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1377	I do not believe that anyone has been misinformed about the resources that will be put at the disposal of the monitoring and control of the Norwegian maritime external border in connection with our entry into Schengen cooperation. As I have previously explained in my replies to the representative, Mr Stag, in the Questionnaire, on the same topic on 31 January and 14 February of this year, respectively, the Maritime Defense Agency, as responsible for monitoring our maritime external border, has several instruments at its disposal for its control work. I once again stress, as the EU is also informed, that the mobile maritime border inspection is primarily to be carried out by the Seven Coast Guard Vessels of the Defence as daily patrols in the territorial waters. In addition, it has been demonstrated that the vessel resources will be complemented by electronic surveillance at the Two Coastal Radar Chains of the Defence. When border monitoring on behalf of the Schengen countries is launched later this month, these resources will be used. In various contexts, the Ministry of Defence has clarified that a maritime surveillance centre is planned to be established during the current year. However, as the coastal radar chain in southern Norway may need to be modernised in a few years, it is not appropriate to establish such a monitoring centre this year. The Ministry of Defence is currently assessing the economic and operational basis for upgrading the coastal radar. As the Maritime Monitoring Centre is intended to integrate information from, inter alia: Coastal radars, the establishment of this awaits a decision on the future of the coastal radar chain. It is underlined that the surveillance of the sea areas of South Norway by the Defence Agency is far from being confined to three coastguard vessels. As I informed in my reply to the representative Stag in the Questionnaire on 14 February of this year, the defense has provided several different resources that contribute to the overall monitoring. The three internal coastguard vessels in South Norway will have tasks related, inter alia, to: the supervision between fixed border crossing points as a result of the Schengen Agreement. The vessel resources will, as previously mentioned, be able to be reinforced if needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1390	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Minister of Justice has earlier stated, on the two dates she herself referred to, that my figures regarding the number of ship calls in South Norway were incorrect, so I have checked these. It is true that a foreign ship accounts for approx. 35000 p.a. years, of which 28 000 are only in South Norway. If all of these are to be detected by the Internal Coast Guard, which is the only 24-hour continuous resource of the Defence Agency in South Norway, this means the monitoring of 75 vessels per. day along a distance of 13 000 km. This is an impossible problem. In addition to those vessels, Norwegian vessels are also covered by the Schengen acquis. In total, we can estimate over 100,000 calls. My question is then: does the Minister see the problems Norway is facing in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1401	I think I have to refer to the answer I just gave to the first question, and my two answers on 31 January and 14 February respectively. I point out that I have replied there that both I – and I still believe so – and the Minister of Defence believe that there are satisfactory resources for adequate coastal surveillance in South Norway and along the border. We believe that we have informed the European Union in a reasonable way, and that the approach that is adopted is satisfactory in the context of Schengen cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1408	I thank you for your answer. I have just one short question: what will the Minister do specifically to meet the challenges by the date set for the Schengen implementation of this month?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1415	I'm referring to what I've said. Both the Minister of Defence and I believe it is satisfactory as it is. I also point out that the defense has the opportunity to call on additional resources if there are any special circumstances, as I explained in my reply on 14 February, and the assessment is so far that this is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1450	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1456	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The vocational guidance in Norwegian schools is far too poor, says a researcher at the University of Oslo according to an NTB report. Time and resources are wasted if students make wrong choices in their educational choices. The size has decided to launch a pilot project to distinguish the advisory function from a social educational part and a guidance part. [[Inc. S. No 246 for 1998-1999]] How far has the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research come to work on this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1465	Both the Ministry and the Stortinget have been concerned with improving the education and vocational guidance of schools, at the latest in the context of the treatment of St.melding. No 32 for 1998-99 on secondary education and the examination by the Committee of the Innst. S. No 246 for 1998-99. In St.meld. No 32 different measures were outlined. The Committee followed this up and asked for a pilot project to be launched to distinguish the advisory function in a social educational part and a training and guidance part. The ‘Shared Advisory Service’ project was launched on 1 August 2000 and will continue until 1 August 2003. Four counties participate in the project: Oslo, Akershus, Oppland and Rogaland. It is the Learning Centre that has been responsible for implementing the project. The aim of the project is to strengthen educational and vocational guidance through shared counselling, so that pupils in primary and secondary education are better able to make informed educational choices, without weakening the social educational counselling. This will include, inter alia: be developed, tested and evaluated in different models for the organisation of advisory services at schools. Furthermore, the project will look at different local and regional cooperation models, networks and procedures for the exchange of skills and models of cooperation between schools, working life and relevant regional bodies. The State Education Offices in the Project Counties coordinate the work and have developed their own project descriptions. The design and implementation of the various actions is ongoing at all levels of the project. The launch conference for the project was held on 7 and 8 February 2001, so it is not that long since we started. SINTEF Technology Management IFIM has been commissioned to evaluate the project in the course of the project and to carry out a final evaluation at the end of the project. Based on advice from the Learning Centre, I would like to assess whether it might be appropriate to apply any measures already in the course of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1484	I thank you for your answer and I am pleased that the department has made a good start on this. Even I come from Uppland County and I'm a little familiar there, and I can tell the Council that for me who's been in high school, it's not new that you share the advisory function in a professional guidance section and a social counselling section. But what's very important is that we get this done at primary level to make the right choices as early as possible. I am delighted to mention that Øyer Municipality and the high school there have a very good concept, and I wonder if the council is familiar with it. It is a concept that is very far-reaching in that it involves everyone — from childhood onwards, this conscious counselling service starts with regard to choice of occupations. I think it is worrying that there is now such a bad search for the professions that we can risk getting far too little skilled labour in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1493	I share the concern of the representative Tingelstad about any lack of competence in different fields. It is important that we manage to recruit well for the professional subjects. I am absolutely convinced that a good vocational and study guide is the key to that. There I think we have a lot to do, and I think this project can teach us a lot. I do not know what has happened specifically in Øyer, but it sounds exciting. I know that there is a lot of exciting happening around School Norway that we have to learn from. A goal that we must be concerned with is also to achieve better equality, a better gender balance in the various professional choices. Good counselling, good study guidance and close contact between school and professional life, I think, is something that can help bring gender equality policy a long way forward. There are many goals here that depend on a good vocational and study guidance, as well as that it can reduce wrong choices and make us use our school resources and educational resources in a much better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1500	I thank you again for the additional response, which I thought was satisfactory and fine. I hope that the department will continue to be an active driver in this area. I would also like to point out that Øyer secondary school actually received Oppland County Council's training prize for its project, and I would like to have the pleasure of giving a brochure to the Council of State at a later stage. Another aspect of this is: it's not so much going on to become an adviser. What can we do with that? In time, I took the initiative in half-yearly training in this field. Then it turned out that some teachers were freed and took this as a part-time study, but many municipalities refused to facilitate it. What can the Council of State do to stimulate continuing training for teachers who want to enter this important position? And is the Council also willing to assess compensation in the form of a somewhat higher salary for teachers who choose this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1507	It is essential that those responsible for the advisory service at each school and in each municipality have the necessary skills. Now I think a lot has happened to it, and probably also after the representative Tingelstad's pressure. It's not like it might have been in the old days, that the teacher who wanted it and put it on was an adviser. It has now come a long way to develop special skills in this area. But we might have to do more. I don't think we're going to go into any pay discussion for different groups in the school from the Great Britain pulpit, but I think the most important thing is that you have counselors who are able to connect school and local business and working life together. Because I believe, in any case, that you never get in the situation that a consultant knows the whole range of professions and the need for work in the local environment. The most important thing is to link pupils with the employment, business and service production they are going to pursue, in order to gain insight into the different professional and career opportunities they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1517	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Many Norwegians work with aid, mision, industry and other work abroad. Research and experience in recent years have shown that long internships for children away from their parents may be unfortunate. Mission organisations operating Norwegian schools in developing countries and having students from a larger geographical area wish to make the best possible arrangements for students. What alternative solutions do state councils see, so that children with parents in developing countries can get proper schooling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1526	It is a responsibility for parents with children of primary school age who choose to live in developing countries for a period of time to make sure that their children are trained under conditions that parents regard as good for them. However, the Norwegian State contributes in various ways to the proper schooling of children with parents in developing countries. The Private School Act has an explicit legal provision on the approval of Norwegian schools abroad. These schools, with the exception of three Norwegian departments in international schools, follow Norwegian public plans. The Ministry grants grants to a number of such schools both inside and outside Europe. In addition, Norwegian nationals who are students at foreign or international primary schools in Norway or abroad may receive grants for complementary education in three disciplines: Norwegian, knowledge of Norwegian society and Christian knowledge of religious and life views. This subsidy is granted in accordance with the Private School Act and may in some cases also be granted to EEA citizens. It is about 1 700 students each year who receive support for supplementary education. Those receiving supplementary education are assumed to receive their schooling in a foreign or international school. Complementary education is intended to provide children attending foreign or international schools with knowledge of Norwegian conditions in these subjects, so that subsequent integration into Norwegian school can take place as easily as possible. Norwegian online school provides an offer of primary school education within Norwegian, knowledge of Norwegian society and Christian knowledge with religious and life views for Norwegian students abroad. The offer includes the class steps from 5th to 10th grade and is aimed primarily at children of foreign service employees, international business employees and mission organisations. Since 1998, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has given approximately Two million. kr in support of Norwegian online school to gain experience with online primary education. If the experience from this project is good, in some way I will consider the possibilities to expand the online training. I think the development of such online schemes could be an alternative that will help parents in an even better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1541	Thank you for your answer! I am aware that we have complementary education, and that we added extra money to the last state budget. And that's how the government wanted to remove this possibility too. But what I'm asking you now is whether there are other possibilities. For many students, there are not just questions about being taught in these three subjects. They cannot go to the local school, which can also be far away, and that is not what suits the students, and it is far from the Norwegian school. Here's what we're talking about, for example. that children live at home with their parents in certain parts of the school year in order to avoid living at boarding school, which has been used for a long time. This is particularly true in Africa, at the small school stage. And then they've been taught at the parents' place of residence instead of at the school. Could it also be possible to find flexible arrangements here, so that this can be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1548	Maybe you can. I'm going to think that what I said in my first answer about increasing the use of online learning can be such a solution. Now we realize that there are not all places where mission organisations work, that the network connection is the best, but there is also eventually new technology that makes it possible to get more individualised education, even if you are not in an environment with several Norwegian children or maybe other international groups that can go together about a school. But we have relatively big challenges here at home in terms of getting to a decentralised school structure. Schools are laid down, schools are laid down because there are too few students, and then it's no wonder that we can't get a correspondingly distributed school structure for all the Norwegian children we have in the world. There are a few Norwegian children in one place, and solutions need to be found for each case. There will probably be a diversity of solutions to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1557	Yes, and that's where I challenge the Council of State to come up with these possible solutions, because I know that there has been a rejection from the department on this particular structure that I outlined instead. They do not receive support as they have previously received. I am aware that the responsibility for the children lies with the parents, but the Norwegian State also has a responsibility. Section 26 of the Private School Act also provides for support for education for students. So when you have a firm arrangement in connection with such a Norwegian school in a developing country – which I myself have taught and have good experience with – where the parents, as I know well follows up, are included as assistant teachers, can it be admitted that these students are still fully supported as students associated with the Norwegian school? That's what I'm asking the Council of State for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1562	I do not have the opportunity to comment on the specific request made by the representative of Skarbøvik. We might get back to that on another occasion. It is not possible to take the individual item over the table in this round. However, in general, I do not think there is any disagreement that Norwegian children abroad should also be given the opportunity to acquire basic skills and knowledge that makes integration in Norwegian school the best possible when they return. But it is clear that we have challenges in relation to the scattered settlement that these children naturally have, and the different situations that are in the local environment they are in. So here we just have to look at the applications we get, treat them individually and look at the possibilities that exist in each case. But the parents of these children and the organisations they work for also need to make a significant effort to make this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1572	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The size was decided upon during the treatment of Innst. S. No 246 for 1998-1999 that it would be easier to choose a particular course for students who need a different combination of theory and practice than the main model 2+2. Students who, for various reasons, have poor experience in the field of theory often find it difficult to obtain a professional letter according to the main model. Many suggest that the decoration contained in the Storting decision has not reached school authorities and students. What will the Council of State do to make special situations more common to students who need it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1581	Let me first clarify what is contained in the term ‘speciality’. Specificities apply to certain special and particularly small subjects. In these subjects, students sign a learning contract according to basic courses. We have a total of 28 subjects following the model. These include: gypsum, engraving, gilding, tanning, glass flakes, basketware and tricycles. The subject of special courses as a training model is determined on the advice of the social partners. All special cases are announced in circulars from the Ministry. In addition, each county provides information on specific situations in its own training catalogues. These are ordinary offers that students are free to apply for. After Stortingen's treatment of St. meld. No 32 for 1998-99 and Innst. S. No 246 for 1998-99, the Ministry has worked on the structure of higher education. The Labour Training Council, RFA, assists the Department in the coordination of this work in relation to the Training Councils. By 1 June, the Ministry shall receive advice from the RFA on how a simplified structure for secondary education should be. This work also includes evaluation of specific situations. In terms of flexibility in relation to the educational and organisational organisation of the training for students, I would first like to refer to the Regulation of the Training Act. This allows students who are particularly low-educated to enter into apprenticeships, so that the entire training takes place in the company. This is done after expert judgement. The rationale for requiring expert judgement is that theoretical training is aggregated on basic and VKI courses. This training is best suited for school training, and apprenticeships are usually unable to provide the training. Equally important is the project ‘Difference and organisation in secondary education’. The main objective of the project is to identify ways of working to maximise the individual student’s training that is tailored to his or her assumptions and needs. In order to achieve this objective, more than 1000 different projects have been implemented to address educational and organisational issues. For example, I will mention the integration of theory and practice, the professional correction of common subjects in general, the testing of new forms of assessment, cooperation with local work and changes in organisational conditions such as work sharing, working hours and flexible schedules. All counties and schools are involved in the project, and from state level, between 30 and 40 million are invested. DKK annually, in addition to the own contribution of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1596	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State has so little to do with the problem itself. I agree with him in the definition of ‘speciality’ — maybe a little unlucky in this context, because what's the point, is to have offers to students who, for example, need to choose an alternative race when they're done with primary school, that is. for example, they start on the holding. I feel that the Council of State is taking this rather lightly. There are many students who, for different reasons, have problems with theory, who often have aversion to school. Some of the goal when we dealt with Innst. S. No 246, among other things, to soften up and make it a little easier for students to choose alternative ways up to a degree letter, special course I, but also to start directly in learning. We have to take that seriously. We have to make arrangements so that the students who are struggling with the theory can have an alternative. We know that it has been difficult for many students to get this offer, even though they have had the opportunity to sign a learning contract and have done all the work themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1603	It's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth and be able to distinguish between two different things. On the one hand, we have special courses, which are a special scheme that applies to a few special and small subjects. It's one arrangement. Then we've been asking about the organization of the individual student or apprentice, and especially those that Rolf Rekovam brings up, who are tired of school, and where the usual school situation doesn't fit so well. It seems like SV mixes this up a little bit. Among other things, we can see this in the proposal that the Socialist Left Party made in the Stortinget on 6 October 1999, which called for ‘the Government to facilitate... several specialities to take care of small subjects’ and, as you add, ‘youth that needs a different combination of practice and theory in order to obtain a professional letter/other competence’, and then organisation, which the representative Rikam talks about. We have to keep the two things separate. One thing is the special courses, which are supposed to take care of small trades. Then we have the differentiation and the organization, which can also apply to those subjects, but which should also apply to several subjects, because of the students' special learning situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1610	I have no problem holding my tongue right in my mouth. That's the definition of "speciality" that we use, that we get a separate race after completion of the basic course. It's okay enough for me. But we also have those that need an alternative race right before they start on the basic course, that is. after they left primary school. For many people it's not about making arrangements in high school, but it's about giving them an alternative course, where they can sign an apprenticeship when they're done with primary school. That's what we have to get to people, and that's what needs to be easier. There are a lot of students who are struggling, and who – as I said before – have an aversion to new years at school and starting school. They're motivated to learn, they're motivated to sign a contract, they're motivated to start an education where a combines theory and practice in a slightly different way. And then the question is, how are we going to facilitate them? Then we don't have to do any long procedures where you're going to start analysing school motivation and stuff like that. [[The President clubs.]] I was going to say that these young people are ready, they will, and we have to facilitate them, without stigmatizing them initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1617	I am glad that we may have cleared up the concept of “speciality” from the world. This applies to ordinary apprentices without special theory problems or adaptation problems, or who are school-tired. These are people who take completely ordinary subjects, but in a special way, because the subjects are so small and so special. Then we've cleared it out of the way. Then we can talk about what's the big project, "Difference and planning in higher education". I do not agree with the representative's description that we take it lightly. On the contrary, we allocate between 30 and 40 million. kr annually for that project, and we have over a thousand different projects to look at possible adaptations. And here it is not a question of either taking a vocational education in the usual way – first at school, then in learning – or going into a special course where everything is going on in the company. Here, there is almost a moving scale from school to apprenticeship. Maybe you can go more in the company, but still have some theory in the school, maybe you can have less based on different subjects and different needs of the individual student. I don't think you should underestimate the ability and ability of the school-tired students to acquire theoretical knowledge either. We're not going to stigmatize it that way. [[The President clubs.]] I don't think there's necessarily a lack of theory that makes you tired of school, it could be completely different things. And it also turns out that when you get the theory integrated into your profession and interest up that way, the ability to acquire it is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1626	The President proposes to stick to the speaking time to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1632	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Norway veterinary high school is responsible for the training of veterinarians and for veterinary medical research at national level. The Norwegian veterinary college shall promote ethically sound animal husbandry and a healthy animal population and ensure food safety for humans and animals. What action does the Council of State intend to take to strengthen veterinary education and research at the Norwegian veterinary college in order to protect the country from the threat of epidemics that are raging in Europe and threaten our food safety, animal health and public health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1641	It is true, as the representative Bastisen says, that Norway’s veterinary high school has a national responsibility for veterinary education and that it should contribute to the promotion of ethically sound animal husbandry and healthy animal populations. The high attention given to food safety and animal health in Norway and Europe also makes it natural to focus on education in this context. Education and research are, of course, central to this picture, but these areas have a much longer time perspective than the more acute measures the Government is discussing these days. As a scientific college, the Veterinary College itself is responsible for ensuring that the professional content of education always reflects the highest of research. Initial and continuing training shall enable Norwegian veterinarians to deal with the professional challenges they face in their work, whether in minor cases or in major epidemics. There is nothing to suggest that Norway’s veterinary high school does not fulfil this role satisfactorily. The Swedish Veterinary College has been protected by the cuts in college places that the other colleges and universities have had to take in the last few years with low levels of youth. Norway’s veterinary college has a central role in the ‘earth-to-board’ chain through its close cooperation with the Veterinary Institute, the State Food Authority and the State’s animal health surveillance in the areas of animal health and food quality. Veterinary higher education contributes, in particular in the field of disease diagnosis and with its reference function, to laboratory studies. Norway's veterinary high school also has a large proportion of externally funded research, mostly through regular programmes in the Norwegian Research Council. In the follow-up to the Government's Research Communication, major increases in research have been adopted, and one of the four areas of activity is Medicine and Health. Here, the Swedish Veterinary College will play a central role in the field of ‘Food and Health’. There will be no less need for the research and competence of the Veterinary College in the future and, with their competence, they should also make a strong contribution in future application rounds. For the treatment of St.prp. No 63 for 1995-96 on the reorganization of right-wing education and sectoral research in the agricultural sector asked the Stortinget to carry out an evaluation of agricultural training and research, including veterinary medicine. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research have launched such an evaluation, which is now being carried out by a Nordic panel of experts. The evaluation shall be carried out at the beginning of August and will form the basis for the further work of the departments in the agricultural and veterinary fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1659	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have the following follow-up questions: In 1996, the situation at Norway’s veterinary high school was evaluated by a committee appointed by the European Association of Establishments for Veterinary Education. The Committee concluded, inter alia, that: ‘It is unrealistic to expect Norwegian students to become competent veterinarians under current conditions’. Five years later, little has been done to improve conditions; on the contrary, they have become worse. Does the Council of State feel that it is right to continue at this level in the light of the important task that the veterinary services have in today's society and the increasing demands on knowledge and competences that society places on this profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1668	I believe that any education and research in Norway must continue to pursue higher quality and higher objectives, as well as of course for the veterinary field. So saying that's good enough today, you're never going to hear from me, because I think all areas can be improved. Of course, it is important that we have competent veterinarians, and that we know this field well. With increasing pressure on the Norwegian food market, with greater cross-border flows, with more travel, etc., we will also face challenges in the future, among others. animal health and food safety. Then it's important that we also have that competence and knowledge, and that we do that research and get that insight that, among other things. Veterinary higher education can contribute, and I will also be happy to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1675	I thank you again for the answer. I have another follow-up question. The Minister of Agriculture has said that the Government is willing to spend several hundred million dollars on monitoring and diagnostics of the prion disease cow disease, BSE. Basic knowledge of this disease is still lacking. It is also known that today’s diagnostic methods for detecting the disease have several weaknesses. There is therefore a great need for more research in this area. How can the Council of State, which is responsible for veterinary research, defend that a single crown should not be used for research into this disease, while huge sums should be used for short-term action?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1686	I guess the representative Bastesen doesn't think we should not be dealing with the acute crisis we have today on food safety and animal health issues, because we should be training veterinarians and researchers, etc. from a 5- to 6- to 7-8-year perspective. Of course, we have to deal with the very acute situation. We need to make sure that we do everything we can to ensure that the food safety of Norwegian citizens is ensured, and that we can trust that the food we buy in the store and eat is safe. Then, of course, we need a long-term policy to develop skills, knowledge, research and insight in this area. But the two things are not the opposite of each other. I fully share the Minister of Agriculture's assessment that we need a very offensive and robust policy in relation to the crisis situation in European agriculture, and that is not contrary to the policy we are pursuing in the KUF to ensure a long-term commitment and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1696	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Many of our colleges are currently working hard to reach the high and clear quality criteria proposed by the Mjøs Committee to qualify for university status. What are the reasons given by the Council of State for drastically lowering and diluting these quality requirements, as he has done publicly in advance of the notified notification of higher education reforms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1705	The Mjøs Committee carried out its investigation on 8 May 2000. It then went to a wide-ranging consultation, and I intend to present a major report on higher education and funding for studies on Friday, March 9. The committee's position and consultation opinions on this are important parts of the basis for the proposals I would like to present to the Stortinget. It is good that the colleges extend to high quality requirements. It's always going to be for universities and colleges, completely independent -- let me say that -- of what a public sample writes. The Mjøs Committee's proposal that a university should have the right to award doctoral degrees within four disciplines in order for it to be named university could lead to higher education developing more disciplines than they initially have in order to call themselves universities. I am committed to concentrating state funds for basic research in order to provide a basis for internationally competitive research environments. I therefore believe that there is no room for more than the four classical broad universities we have today, and I believe that the four broad universities must be in a special position in basic research tasks. I believe that colleges that have the right to award a doctorate should be able to apply to use the designation university. This means that, like the scientific colleges, they are given responsibility for conducting basic research in the fields in which they have a doctorate. Thus, like today's scientific colleges, they will be responsible for basic research in a narrower area than the four broad universities. Obligations and duties assigned to the university title apply in the fields in which the institution has the right to award doctoral degrees. The establishment of research training is very resource-intensive, and I therefore believe that needs assessments must be included in addition to the professional assessments before institutions are given the right to award new doctoral degrees. So I am committed to establishing structures that concentrate resources and ensure the quality of higher education and research, while at the same time giving those who have been awarded a doctorate the opportunity to apply for the designation university. I look forward to discussing the big message on a broad basis after it has been submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1720	I also look forward to discussing the big message on a broad basis when it is presented, and I am pleased to note that it is coming, as previously announced, early in March, namely on 9 March. On the question that has now been asked, the Council of State has chosen the form of communication both for the Grand Duchy and for the public that he has presented interesting reforms, which he has thought are important. I now remember the reasons of the Council of State, that he will allow anyone else to become a university as long as they have one doctorate programme. Even I think that opening this up on the basis that the Council of State does will easily open up to many people the desire that it is only through university status that they can participate in basic research. I am of the general opinion that basic research is important in areas other than those that are exclusively in universities, and that there is competence and development in many research environments that we should be able to stimulate when we step up Norwegian research education. I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Does he not see it in himself to consider research that is valuable to increase the breadth of Norwegian research, without going about getting the university name?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1727	I am of the opinion that all educational environments can contribute on the research side. There are many colleges that do a great job in research and development, especially linked to the professional training we have, and linked to local and regional business. But especially in basic research, it is important that we focus on a concentration in the professional community, that we focus on good management, and that we focus on areas where we have special competence and special prerequisites to do well. The international evaluations of our research environments say that we're concentrating too little, we're betting too little, and we're under-directed by research. At the same time, there are some colleges that want to change their name to university. I believe that you should give some of these opportunities, and I believe that one doctoral grant should be the basis enough to apply for it. I think it might be important for those environments that this is about, to have the opportunity to use the university name. Internationally, the university name is used differently from what we do. I have the ambition to give these environments the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1732	I share the opinion of the Council of State that someone else – not many – should be able to get the chance to get university names, given that they meet professional requirements. For my part, I am convinced that if you set the entry threshold to one doctoral degree, there are a lot of people who will realize that this is the method of accessing important basic research materials. I think that you would have a clearer line by maintaining strict professional requirements, and rather look at how you could stimulate research, which has created your own energy, as you might say. have done so at the University of Bodø, and as has been done at the Colleges of Agder and Rogaland, which I am sure the Council of State is thinking about. But I think there are other ways to do it than to lower the requirements in order to be able to bear the university name, even though I agree with him that one should concentrate on the four latitudes, and that others who bear the university name, then would be niche university, if one were to use such an expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1737	No matter what model you choose, whether you choose what I describe here, or the model of the Mjøs Committee, you get a different university designation, a different university content than the classic one of the four universities we have today. I don't think anyone disagrees. So the question is, are these colleges that are then talking about, going through a long process to get four doctoral areas, five faculty areas, then to get the name university, or are we going to say that as they have a research education, they are going to get the name university, and then the further development can take place both in depth and in breadth according to natural conditions and the needs of society? I think the last one is the most reasonable way to do it. I fear that the model Mjøs has proposed, and for which Dørum makes himself a spokesman, first of all, will perhaps require the development of doctoral degrees that you may not need or require at any given time. Secondly, I fear that it will push the university name many, many years in time, and that I will think is very bad for the environments that are involved, which dream of using that name.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1748	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Oslo cathedral, used at major national events, has an acute need for refurbishment. If the most necessary works are to be completed before the Crown Prince's wedding on 25 August, a minimum of 8 million must be granted. crowns immediately. Will the Council of State take the initiative to provide these funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1757	At the HKH The Crown Prince Haakon's wedding in Oslo Cathedral on 25 August, the Church Council in Oslo has drawn up an overview of the refurbishment work that should be carried out in the cathedral. On this basis, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has been in contact with the Municipality of Oslo, with a view to identifying the basis for co-financing between the State and the municipality of the additional costs of refurbishment of the Oslo Cathedral as necessary. Two days ago, the City Council in Oslo announced to the Ministry that the City Council would go in for 3 million. redispatched for the benefit of the refurbishment of the Oslo Cathedral. The State will contribute a similar appropriation. This has been announced to the Church Joint Council in Oslo, with which we have been in ongoing dialogue on this matter. The work can therefore be started immediately. After the information we have, this would be enough to do the necessary work until the wedding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1766	I thank you for the answer – although we have already been thoroughly informed about the answer in advance through the additional service that the Prime Minister's office has set in motion, by the Prime Minister now undertaking to answer questions in advance, the day before the Question Time, by moving out with both press releases and by interviewing Dagsrevyen. However, I am not satisfied with the answer. There's 2.1 million missing. kr in relation to the budget set up by the Church Joint Council for the refurbishment. It would be interesting to share with the Council of State information that there is no need for 8.1 million. kr, but that there is enough 6 million. kr. If Oslo cathedrals, including the roof paintings, were to be refurbished, there is really a need for between 70 million. NOK 80 million. kr. I am interested to know what in this list he has decided to drop the necessary refurbishment that is described.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1775	I am not quite convinced that the Prime Minister's commitment to the Crown Prince's wedding is one-sided in that Lars Rise has put a question to the Questionnaire. I am aware that the representative Rise has had an involvement in this matter, and that is commendable. But that the Prime Minister, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, has provided money for this wedding, may also have motives other than the representative Rise's commitment. Let me just say that initially all churches are the responsibility of the municipalities. Thus, the fact that the state grants the grant for the upgrading of churches is quite unusual. But then it's also an unusual event. I don't think that creates any particular precedent of concern by the fact that in this context we go into an extra allocation. The list that has been drawn up in relation to the upgrading work that is needed contains different measures. I assume that there are several measures that will also be taken in connection with the wedding, but for which the Municipality of Oslo must take responsibility. One of those things is, for example, [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1784	I find this to be petty. Oslo Cathedral has a very special place in the consciousness of the Norwegian people. Great national events such as the wedding of then Crown Prince Harald and Sonja and King Olav's funeral took place in this church. And when Oslo Cathedral is now to be able to attend the Crown Prince's wedding, we should be able to do this with the quality awareness that such an event requires. That a Crown Prince is marrying, we experience two or maybe three times in a century, and I would encourage the Council of State to make available also the remaining 2.1 million. kr. After all, the country's net contribution is only about 2 million. NOK, when you think that there is also a VAT of more than 1 million. kr. Or has Giske thought that VAT should be refunded on this uplift? What happens is that the Municipality of Oslo is now forced to take money from other important purposes, so the Council of State of Gishe must now look at the fact that the Greenland Church will continue to have tarnish on the roof. Is this State going to be the consequence of this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1791	We will never find ourselves in a situation where the state can compensate Oslo Municipality's voluntary release of large amounts of income in the form of tax credits to the inhabitants of Oslo, which means that less money is given to Oslo's churches and less money to Oslo's schools. It's a shame, and the representative Rise's party sits in the city council that could have done something about it. Now, however, there is such a special situation that we find that we have to go in with money to Oslo Cathedral, because that church has not been well maintained for many years. But I assume that the Municipality of Oslo will hopefully take many steps in connection with the big weekend we're going to have in August, to decorate the city and make it in good condition for the wedding. The Municipality of Oslo has a comprehensive maintenance budget, a comprehensive budget for planting and decorating the city, which is also part of the measures being taken here, so I assume that the Municipality of Oslo will set it up in a special way, when we are going to have a historic event that is not very often happening in our country. The fact that the state contributes $3 million. kr, is an extra allowance in such a way as I hope will be useful, and which will enable the church to be in some sort of proper condition when the wedding arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1798	Then there's case no. 1 finished. Case No. the second paragraph is deleted;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-07.ana.ud1327e1809	There is no record.
