ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e60	A number of permit applications are available: on 14 and 15 May from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative John Dale to take part in the Nordic Council Working Group on the Northern Dimension in Tromsø from the representatives Synnøve Konglevoll, Ivar Kristiansen, Sverre Myrli and Tomas Norvoll on leave from 14 May to 16 May, all to attend the seminar of young parliamentarians in the Barents region under the direction of the Nordic Council in Tromsø. These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is prevented from meeting under the representative John Dale's leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Åge TovanFor Hordaland County: Magnar LussandFor Nordland County: Søren Fredrik Voie and Kari BridevollFor Troms County: Arne Bergland2. Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e122	Steinar Bastesen will make two private suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e125	I have the honour to make two private suggestions. One is about intensifying work towards the United Kingdom to close the Sellafield plant. My second suggestion is that control and ownership of natural resources, and especially food resources at sea and on land, remain in Norwegian hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e132	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e142	The government will renew, streamline and transform public administration so that it works better in relation to the needs of the population and takes better account of socio-economic considerations. This does not mean that the public sector is poor or unable to solve the tasks it is assigned to. But the public sector is facing major challenges. Four of the most important are: new technological opportunities a tighter labour market more competent and demanding users demand more efficient use of our resources I want to say it so strongly that if we can't meet these challenges, the basis of the public welfare system is threatened. The public sector is the welfare country’s platform in Norway and is given a particularly important task as a policy instrument for distribution. The challenges for the public sector require the ability and willingness to solve the tasks in fundamentally new ways. The situation requires courage to rock by adopted truths and old solutions. At the same time, we also want public solutions to be in the forefront and to shape social development, not to be lagging behind, as unfortunately is the case in some areas today. I will use this opportunity to explain the main points of administrative policy – what lies ahead of these challenges, what should be done, and what we have already started to do. In other words, I would like to explain the renewal of the public sector. Firstly, the public sector, from kindergartens and schools to hospitals and homes for the elderly, is labour-intensive. We therefore depend on many ‘wise heads and warm hands’ to borrow an expression from the Prime Minister. This is a challenge today, and we know that there will be an even bigger challenge in the years to come. At the same time, we know that over the last 20 years, there have been, on average, 37 more employees in the public sector — every day. If this growth continues only approximately, the public sector will need most of the labour force growth in the next decade. Most people realize that this isn't going to work. We need to clear up room for increased efforts in those areas where the needs are greatest. We know that the so-called ageing wave will increase public funding needs for old age pensions, sick pay and disability benefits. This involves both increased pay-out in money and increased needs for services, and then in the form of labour. As important as the hard facts about capital needs and labour, the attitudes and expectations of most people are to the welfare state in general, and to the public sector in particular. Both as taxpayers and users, the population today demands more. People want to be assessed as individuals and that services should be more tailored to individual needs. So what we're facing is not a single situation we can decide from. Instead, the needs point to more extensive system changes, which in turn require efforts in several areas at the same time: Firstly, it is absolutely necessary to work towards a greater focus on the needs and wishes of the users, in particular the production of services. The keywords are quality, flexibility and availability. Secondly, we need to focus on making better use of resources in the public sector. We need to transfer resources from administration to service provision and from declining sectors to increasingly needed sectors. Thirdly, greater emphasis needs to be placed on more efficient and flexible solutions, better division of labour and not least on more space for action at all levels of the public sector. We have to bet on simplification, but we also have to do something about the systems that produce all the rules. The government has set in motion a significant effort to achieve the objectives. The Road Progress Action Plan represents nine reforms in the renewal work and the implementation plans, but first and foremost makes clear what results can be expected from the programme. More than 400 different actions are currently under the programme. Some of these are major reforms, such as hospital, education and defence reforms. Others are minor measures, such as: management evaluation in the country, or simply to arrange a single application procedure for building permits or hourly booking of vehicle control over the Internet. But whether they are small or large, they are all important building blocks in the process of renewing the public sector. I want to use the rest of the statement to say something more about some of the reforms. I want to pay particular attention to the political challenges. To get an overview of all the measures, I will instead refer to the action plan itself. The government will center the users. An administration that allows for user involvement, offers flexible solutions, takes into account individual needs and does not appear unreasonable and cross-cutting in relation to ordinary people, is one of the important objectives of the renewal work. Free hospital choice is a good example of this. Here, priority is given to the user and not to the institution or employees' needs. This does not mean that we should not take account of the employees – and I will say something more about that later – but that means that it should not be the professional interests or the needs of the employees who are to govern the arrangement of the service provision itself. We need to work together better to serve the users. User orientation is not something that only affects those who sit behind barriers or pick up telephones, i.e. are in the first line. User briefing is about the whole activity, about the entire social security budget from the Ministry to the smallest social security office. Good user orientation presupposes better management cooperation. Most people do not relate to general government as divided into clear sectors and levels, although these may seem practical to those of us who stand by them. For most people, the public sector is one business, and it is expected to act like that. For them, there is no logic that the social security office is state-owned and the social security office is municipal. Better cooperation and coordination between public authorities are indispensable for the user's respect. One barrier and one telephone number at public service offices is a good example of coordination between departments. Other examples of coordination and reorganisation are strengthening the role of the county as a judicial security body. We're reviewing regional central government to improve efficiency. However, we must avoid the need to improve efficiency at the expense of legal certainty, which is often just ensured by the possibility of an additional and independent assessment. The number of state agencies at regional level shall be reduced. Moreover, they need to coordinate their activities more closely so that their policies towards citizens, businesses and the local community sector are more consistent than they do today. Similarly, we will work more closely to co-locate state agencies and bring together several branches of regional central government in the same organisational unit. This should bring both professional and administrative benefits. At present, there are 50 governmental administrative bodies in charge of supervision, broken down by approx. 230 supervisory arrangements. Let me stress that supervision, not least safety oversight, is important and necessary. But we have to ask ourselves whether we have arranged ourselves wisely with so many organs and arrangements. Can we better coordinate with those exposed to supervision? Can we combine supervisory bodies in related areas and thus create wider disciplines for supervision and save administrative resources? At the same time, we should assess whether the organisation of the State’s supervision of safety involves bad mixes of roles: Should supervision be organised neutrally to ensure public confidence in the independence of supervision? In this context, the Government will consider a more coordinated and effective supervisory management structure and, in particular, safety. Because the administration has so many tasks and different groups of users, we have to have several ways of communicating with people. We need more channels of communication, depending on what we want to communicate, and who we want to reach. We want internet solutions, telephone services and public service offices to complement each other. The work on these channels is therefore in parallel. In total, it's going to give us what we've called "a 24-hour administration". This does not mean that employees of general government are to work around the clock, but that a large number of public services will be available regardless of office opening hours. It shall not be necessary to spend time in a queue to contact a case handler who is only required to record simple information, provide simple information or send out a specific form. Such things should go automatically – 24 hours a day when the user wants to. The aim is that large parts of communication between users and central government should be based on network services at the end of 2003. This means that users can have services such as: processing of applications or registrations, such as: the self-declaration, via the Internet. However, this requires a great deal of development in the streets. Electronic processing and systems for the provision of electronic services must be in place. It is only when the public systems have a direct link to internal trade and processing systems, which also work across sectors and levels of administration, that we can reap all the benefits both for users and for the administration itself. In some areas, there is also a need for secure data exchange solutions to ensure that electronic documents are as legally valid as paper-based. Such developments will require public enterprises to do something about their internal communications, legislation, procedures and forms of work. And for those who themselves do not want to use PCs or other useful tools, the public service offices should be ready to help. That's one of the reasons why they're so important. So it's not really about establishing offers or services that exclude groups of the population. Everyone has to be reached, but the channels can vary! The second key area of administrative policy is related to the need to make better use of public sector resources — whether economic or labour. We have to create more well-being for the money. A critical look at how public sector enterprises perform the tasks assigned to them is necessary and crucial in this context. One example is the law enforcement and the law enforcement system, which is under conversion. It goes without saying that a district division over 100 years old is not adapted to today’s challenges. That's why we're adding. We want to spend less resources on administration and correspondingly more on operational and public services. We're going to get over 400 more policemen in active police work where we need them most. Another example is the need for change in the defence sector, where we will develop a defence with better material, better training and a thrust adapted to the new "threat picture". This will reduce the number of employees by about 5,000, but it's not about people becoming redundant for that reason. These are highly competent staff that we need in many areas of society. This is in itself one of the reasons why these migration measures are so important. Therefore, we are also willing to use a number of instruments to maximise the best possible contribution in other areas of work with their workforce. We will also review the need for coordination and reorganisation of the management system centrally, for example. eleven of the levels of the Ministry of Social and Health will be included in three new establishments. We also want to look at other ways to merge and simplify the directorate structure. In my own area of responsibility, Statskonsult and the State Information Service are merged, thus creating a more powerful directorate to work on developing the administration, among others. in the light of the upturn in information technology. We are absolutely sure that we will achieve benefits by allowing the competence of the two businesses to enrich each other when we gather them in one organization. In order for the departments to have time and opportunity to concentrate on primary tasks, it is important that they be decommissioned for other tasks. We will focus on more use of common administrative solutions and support functions. Since the departments are relatively small, there is much to be done to allow one instance to carry out joint tasks for all departments. The government administration service is intended here for an important task. Individual state activities need to be more innovative in seeking untraditional organisational solutions. Active use of IT solutions is an important tool. The establishment of Aetat payroll centre and the operating and user support centre in Steinkjer are examples of such organisational innovation, which also has effects in District Norway. The government places great emphasis on a working life with room for all. Although there is hardly any country that has a higher proportion of total employment than Norway, and few have a better skilled workforce, we still have an unmet need for labour. It is therefore necessary to mobilise potential labour reserves through, inter alia: to stop exclusion and create a more inclusive working life. A good working environment and a safe workplace are important for individual motivation and opportunities to work. With the rapid pace of transition and the changes we see in the world of work, it is reasonable to assess whether today's employment regulation is well adapted to this situation. We will therefore facilitate a new and comprehensive legislation for working life. We need to deploy all our resources to mobilise more for the labour market. In this context, we focus on ensuring an efficient and good labour market seat to assist with adapted services both for employers and for those who need help to get into work. Labour market measures are key instruments for mobilising the labour market. For ordinary workers, the Government maintains a level of measures adapted to a low level of unemployment. Efforts for people with disabilities have been increased, both with a view to mobilising them for the labour market and with a view to preventing unemployability. We're going to keep trying again. In order for the measures for ordinary job seekers to have the greatest effect, they need to be targeted at groups in greatest need of assistance, namely young people, long-term unemployed, immigrants and low-skilled people — including immigrants. The government considers it important to facilitate the exploitation of the working capacity of disabled persons or others who have lost their links with the labour market for the benefit of themselves and society. Employers have to take a primary responsibility to provide the right job. The government will help to facilitate the organisation of welfare schemes to pay off work. In order to provide sufficient labour, we also need to make use of the opportunity offered by new technologies to free up skilled labour currently used for more or less routine public sector work. Conversions such as: pre-filled declarations not only mean that many tasks can be automated, but also make it possible to increase efforts in other areas of the same activity. In the tax bill, this has meant that more people can now work to expose tax evasions, rather than to check forms. Changes in the public sector as well as in the private sector are more noticeable in small communities, where the jobs concerned can constitute a significant part of the total employment. We will take this into account when the measures we propose put pressure on some communities. Both the establishment and relocation of state tasks are relevant instruments. We would like, among other things: Start a program to move tasks from the Central Administration of Oslo. The government has recently adopted at kgl. a government localisation policy. A key element of localisation policy is to ensure a good regional distribution of government jobs and to ensure that the population of all parts of the country has good access to government services. I would like to mention that the Coastal Directorate is to be moved to Ålesund, Product and Electricity Authority is to be merged with the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection in Tønsberg, the central court administration is to be added to Trondheim and the Information Service of the State of Sogn and Fjordane. Municipalities experiencing a significant overall decline in jobs could receive exceptional assistance for innovation and conversion. Municipalities are the cornerstones of public welfare systems, but municipal autonomy is weakened by detailed legislation, earmarked grants and action plans. Retail management is expensive. The government wants a viable municipal autonomy there the local democratic institutions are strengthened by the involvement of the individual population and the ability to influence their own daily lives is ensured that the resources are used effectively; In order for municipalities to fulfil their role as producers of a number of services dependent on the population, it is important that they have freedom of action. In the last decade, the proportion of earmarked grants of State transfers to municipalities has doubled. In addition, municipalities are subject to a number of planning and reporting requirements. It goes without saying that we need to find solutions that reduce the extent of government governance in the local government sector. The size has adopted a plan to gradually reduce earmarked grants, mainly in the framework grants to municipalities. The government is following up this plan. At the same time, we regard legislation as an unnecessary requirement for services, organisation and administration in municipalities and county municipalities. Such rules shall be either abolished or amended. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has deleted 14 regulations on care. It is not realistic to cut all reporting from municipality to state, but we are working to create forms of work and cooperation that are much more flexible and flexible and that reduce reporting to a minimum. A total of 115 reporting schemes to the local government sector are to be removed. What do we actually achieve with information about harvested forest wood? It's fun to have, maybe for statistical purposes, but that's an impossible principle for reporting and control and bureaucratic burdens. We also review all the rules and reduce all the unnecessary ones. For example, we expect at least 570 nationwide regulations to be lifted in a regulatory vacuum. 1400 different local game regulations are replaced by 19 counties. External evaluation of the pilot project is ongoing with an industry-to-business test panel. We also want to simplify the reporting of data from business to public agencies. Data shall be capable of being reported electronically and only once. In addition, there is an audit process of the law and regulation to remove the barriers to electronic communications. Public agencies shall have greater autonomy and thus also greater opportunity to assess the reasonableness of a case. It is important that we have a system that gives room for common sense rather than paragraphry – although this still needs to be weighed against legal certainty and non-discrimination. Many of the unfairness we hear about in the public meeting can be solved through the use of sound knowledge. Sometimes we have to accept that there are certain differences – you actually have to discriminate in order to get equality. This may result in less ‘millimeter justice’. But we have to learn to accept this. If we're going to do something about excessive regulation, we also have to be willing to do something about the systems that produce all of these rules, and here, too, the Storting has a responsibility, both in the role of the regulation manufacturer and in its control function in relation to the Government and the administration. In a continuing tight labour market, the public sector must be able to compete effectively with the labour force. The rewards of innovation and creativity should be better exploited. We will review the pay and negotiation system, while making greater use of the opportunities offered by today's arrangements. The public sector has many competitive advantages, interesting tasks and good development opportunities can be offered under orderly working conditions. In order to facilitate the demands of workers in different stages of life, we will make it easier with distance work and greater flexibility in normal working conditions. Managers are intended to be more responsible and competent to carry out conversion and renewal in their own activities. This includes, inter alia: to be able to develop forms of work and cooperation. One challenge for the leaders in the future is that they no longer have their positions because they can do more than others; often employees want to have higher skills really than their leaders. The task will be to mobilise and exploit this competence. The leaders of the day and the future must be able to legitimise their influence by other means than job-determined authority. Good communication externally and intimately, the ability to capture relevant impulses and make collectives work will be useful skills for leaders of the knowledge society. Managers shall be more directly responsible for the results, but shall also be given the necessary framework conditions and powers to implement amendments. We will carry out an expanded and systematised evaluation of managers, and we will also make greater use of annual target positions and management contracts. How we deal with the major human resources challenges we face will be crucial to success. We can't just adopt conversions. Equally important is the creation of motivation and understanding among employees in order to make the necessary substantive changes. Active participation by both the individual employee, the trustees and the management is therefore necessary. This means that there is a need for a change of attitude, where at all levels one is willing to address the challenges. We must take care of the workers' need for safety while at the same time implementing the necessary measures to achieve the migration objectives. Security to have a job and not risk losing their income, we believe that we are central to the management of the personnel conversion processes we are facing. Economic instruments must create room for smooth processes. However, security does not mean the same as job security: it is possible to continue with the same tasks that you have been used to. On the contrary, many have to rely on changes, both in terms of work and in terms of work. The work to channel resources from administration to service production will also face major challenges in developing skills in areas where we know that greater efforts are needed to secure the welfare state. The Government will facilitate the development of skills and further training as a central tool for this to be possible. Public administration is also a source of environmental problems and is an important contributor to achieving environmental objectives. Integrating environmental considerations into the operation of establishments will usually mean reducing consumption of environmentally harmful products, reducing energy consumption, increasing recycling and the like. These are measures that contribute to more efficient resource use and provide economic benefits in addition to environmental benefits. Public enterprises have not yet been confronted with environmental expectations as high as private enterprises. Bringing environmental measures into the country’s own operations will contribute to increasing confidence in the country in general and to bringing it into line with what others expect from it and how it operates its own activities. A ‘greener’ operation of State activities is an important part of the country’s renewal and efficiency. The Government wants to develop, convert and streamline public administration through the renewal programme in order to improve its functioning in relation to the needs of the population and socio-economic considerations. The public sector shall respect fundamental values such as political governance, non-discrimination, transparency and participation — and not least legal certainty and privacy. In the renewal work, we have added a few more new values: flexibility – because that’s what users expect efficiency – because that’s what the population demands – because we believe in freedom and responsibility, and not in paragraphs and detail management. In order to maintain confidence and legitimacy in the provision of public welfare and an understanding of how to contribute to Community solutions in the population and business, the public sector in all areas must appear to be effective in the broadest sense. That is why we will renew.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e302	The President will propose that the statement be examined in a subsequent meeting of the Grand Duchy — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e314	Of the projects covered by the study, the most extensive is the castle project, which is also the most widely mentioned. An overall committee is of the opinion that the castle needed an upgrade after the maintenance had been neglected for many years, among others. had to be modernised or replaced, fungi and rat injuries repaired and the working environment of the approximately 100 employees at the Castle are improved. The work is thorough and well done. However, the National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the rehabilitation work at both the Royal Palace and at the Government’s representative residence in Parkvejen 45 has been carried out with large financial exceedances. The reasons include: inadequate planning, failure of project management and weaknesses in the organisation of projects. The cost framework for the castle project was set at 149 million in the autumn of 1995. kr, but transfers of residual appropriations and funds from State-owned buildings resulted in a total of 170,7 million. NOK at the disposal of the project. Until 1 September 1999, the restoration of the Castle had cost 355.1 million. kr. Subtracting from work taken out of the project represents the deviation of 200 pst. in relation to the funds originally available. The Committee considers this to be very critical. For the rehabilitation work in Parkwegen 45, the initial cost framework was 17 million. kr. The cost overrun was 8.8 million. kr, while it has not been possible to determine whether there have been overruns at Stiftsgården in Trondheim, due to lack of cost estimates and accounts. The castle project was a project of a very special nature, with a high degree of technical, construction and craft complexity, heavy antiquarian considerations and strong user involvement. The study shows that these conditions were already known at the planning stage but were not sufficiently taken into account in the preparation of the cost framework. The uncertainty of the project was underestimated and the project was organised with a high degree of parallelity in programming, design and construction. The Committee considers it critical that the uncertainty of the project did not have an adequate impact on the budgeting, organisation and management of the project by the departments. It is the contracting department, the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for planning up to the final stage of the project, while the responsibility for the construction phase lies with the State Building and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which is the general department of State Building. The unanimous criticism of the Committee is therefore directed against all these bodies. Like the Castle, the representative residence in the Parkwegen also needed 45 rehabilitation. But also here, the excess costs can be returned to inadequate planning and project management. It is critical that State Building underestimated the complexity of the project, quality requirements, antique-variable requirements and price rise. There should have been a more thorough state analysis. For the rehabilitation work at Stiftsgården in Trondheim, both investment funds and ordinary means of maintenance have been used, but there is uncertainty as to the size of the amounts. However, in the light of the financial statements, expenditure is estimated at 15.5 million. kr for the period 1991 to 1997. The Committee is of the opinion that it is very unfortunate that State-building has not had an adequate overview of these works and requires that the procedures be improved. In addition, a unanimous committee recommends that Document No. 3:7 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e337	As the rapporteur has already said, there is a general opinion, which unfortunately is correct, that State Building has had a little luck in rehabilitating both the Castle and the House of Representatives in the Parkwegen. The criticisms of the control committee, as well as those of the Riksrevision, are clear. State buildings need to be given a close touch for parts of the rehabilitation project. The Ministry of Finance must also share responsibility and accept some of the criticism. Unfortunately, however, the whole matter bears witness to a too easy handling of the state's money, lack of planning, lack of professional insight and competence, failure of project management and very poor organisation of the projects. So with these characteristics, which is what the whole committee is behind, you could ask if it could've gone worse. And the answer is, hardly, for almost everything that could go wrong went wrong in these two projects. State buildings are left with a scratch in the paint, not to say a tear all the way into the margin. Those who have been involved have failed on a professional basis. The fact that the post-rehabilitation buildings appear both beautiful and functional does not exempt State Building and the two departments responsible – the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Administration – from liability. But the most important thing now is to learn from the building facade. And that is all possible reason to expect to be done, with the measures taken by the departments as well as by State Building. The fact that there are mitigating circumstances, linked to the age of the buildings and to the complexity of the construction, does not relieve those responsible of responsibility. They should have shown greater care during the process as well as greater seriousness with regard to cost calculations. On the other hand, both the Castle and the House of Representatives now appear as they should and shall, namely, as the two foremost and foremost guest houses in the Kingdom. And that's the way it should be. But it should be more than a cross of thought for State Building that only when the Castle itself assumed responsibility came both progress and cost control under far more skillful responsibility. It should also be a crossroads of thought that the media in the case of the Castle have brought forth untruths and trendy claims, for example. pictorial descriptions of lion's feet with gold on bathtubs and other exotic and exclusive solutions, which have had only one purpose, namely to spread what we call "the lie and the damn poem" about the King and the Queen in Norse literature. Some journalists and the media have sometimes shown a lack of critical journalism, but the greater the will for sensationalising. The lessons of the past will be a much better historian than the media in this matter. And I'm sure in a while the Queen will be able to get the cultural prize for her zeal, her competence and her firmness in taking care of the cultural treasure of the Castle. The lesson for everyone, including the Storting, must be that rehabilitation costs more the longer we wait. And in these projects, we waited too long. For this reason, the Right is also satisfied that these three buildings have finally been completed and that State Building and the departments have learned well. We therefore expect a comprehensive plan for the rehabilitation of the other public buildings related to the functioning of the state head. So finally – and what I'm about to say, is both a confession and a lesson, but no excuse for State Building and the Ministry of Finance: We have to take inwards that even though State Building had done a proper preparatory work with satisfactory planning, even if it had been full project management and good organisation of the project, even though State Building had taken over the complexity, quality requirements, the antique requirements and the price increase before the start-up and allocation from Stortinget, the Castle and the Park Road had hardly become so much cheaper than they were. But there is no excuse for the restoration of the Castle to reach 341 million. kr, which amounts to 200 pst. of the initial estimate, or that the representative dwelling had an exceedance of approx. 50 pst. It's, I think, something we have to take with us: no matter what criticism we had to give, no matter if you had done a better job, these two buildings would hardly have gotten any cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e361	The President would point out that the representative used a reference to words which, if it had been the representative's own statement, would not be in line with parliamentary practice. The President assumes that this is a literature reference. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e377	The Committee shares the view of the National Audit Office that the study of the conversion in the Defence Office shows that there is a great need to draw up a comprehensive plan for the implementation and management of the migration process. A clear prerequisite for the management of the migration process is that the plank of the Defence Military Organisation is coordinated with the leadership and directives given by the Ministry and that the defence is provided with a satisfactory information and follow-up system. The Committee is therefore concerned that the follow-up and information systems are heavily weak within the Defence Military Organisation. For example, reference may be made to the development of eight different IT-based accounting systems and a number of non-functional IT-based procurement systems. The Committee is also concerned that the Special Command of the Defence Agency has failed to establish an overall organisational structure for the implementation of the conversion and that the Joint Staff of the Defence Command has not played the intended role in this important work. The reason for this is that multidisciplinary priorities and overall governance have not been prominent in the work done in the conversion process that has taken place in the Defence for many years. Furthermore, it is critical that the organisation of the Joint Staff, with a central staff and several staff members, has created ambiguity in the areas of responsibility and authority within the Joint Staff. This has led to the risk that the border losses will receive double control signals from the Joint Staff. The Committee also considers it critical that the plans of the Defence Military Organisation are not coordinated with the governance content provided by the Ministry through the letters of implementation. We see in many of the cases of the National Audit Office that we are dealing with in the Control Committee that there is a problem that the letters of governance and the instructions given are not followed up in practice. This implies that the policy requirements and guidelines are not reflected in the plan, nor do they reflect realistic economic frameworks, as the governance concept assumes. The Committee would point out that the objective of the 1990s shift has been to adapt the structure of defence to the changing security and economic environment and that a central objective of the transition was to reduce operational expenditure in order to provide funds for necessary material investments. For my part, I have to insist that it has something to do with the level of ambition of some politicians for the defence in relation to doing things they don't get paid for, and does not get enough money to follow up. However, the criticism and the lack of follow-up demonstrated by the Riksrevision are important. The Committee notes that the defence has not achieved operational savings of the order of magnitude envisaged and that the management of the entire conversion process has been characterised by a number of weaknesses, by the absence of a comprehensive plan for the implementation of the conversion and by the lack of adaptation of the Defence Overcommand. There has been a lack of management systems and planning in the Defence Military Organisation, and the follow-up and information system has not worked. The Committee also notes that in its reply to the Riksrevision, the Ministry agrees with the findings of the report and the document and that a reorganisation will be undertaken as soon as possible to improve governance and reporting in the Defence. There is a greater need for the challenges facing the entire defence system in the important work to be done. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the document and recommend that it be annexed to the Minutes, as a unanimous committee has agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e403	The defence has not achieved operational savings of the order of magnitude foreseen in the notification of St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that the defence was on track with the implementation of the operational savings up to and including 1996. Although throughout the period the Ministry has made extensive demands for reporting on the results of the conversion in the various performance areas, it is nevertheless interesting to note that the defence came out of the way with the savings in operation as the department had a somewhat weaker management of the conversion than in the first years of the period. The National Audit Office's investigation shows that the Defence Command has failed to establish an appropriate organisational structure for the implementation of the conversion and the Joint Command of the Defence Command has not played the intended role in this work. Although it has not been possible to achieve the savings decided upon in connection with St.meld. No 16, mention should also be made of the fact that significant conversion work has been carried out in the Defence during the period in question. The Ministry writes that they have learned from the experience, and the long-term proposition for defence is also based on a recognition that the conversion of defence must be based on far-reaching structural changes. The Committee notes that, in its response to the Riksrevision, the Ministry refers to ‘full agreement on the need for better governance and the conversion process’ and that the defence is already in the process of reorganising the defence to improve governance and reporting. The Committee's position is unanimous, and I also recommend that the Stortinget follow up on the unanimous position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e416	It may be unusual to be happy with criticism, but I have to say that I very much appreciate the job that the Riksrevision has done here, and therefore also at the Committee's position, which gives a balanced and correct presentation of the Riksrevision's study and the Ministry's comments on this. In particular, this underlines the importance of creating political consensus on how to operate the new Defence, and for that purpose, the Government, as we know, put forward a new long-term proposition for the whole sector based on other and far more overarching and in-depth action than we have done in relation to previous conversion processes. We are based on the recognition that conversion in the correct sense of the word requires radical changes in the structure of defence. I point out that there is agreement between the National Audit Office and the Ministry on the achievement of the target. We have not achieved the targets in the 1990s. And there is a consensus that the instruments that need to be implemented must now be strengthened to ensure that the process of conversion is successful this time. Modernisation of defence management and command equipment is an important measure in this respect. I refer to something I think I've said in this room before: One of the first things I discovered as Minister of Defense about a year and a half ago, was that the 10-12 billion we needed to modernise the combat fleet was not there, and I had to go to Stortingen with clear notice that that project had to be cancelled, or at least postponed for several years. So many people say in this room – at least quite a few – and they've got it right: here we're facing a huge economic problem. Yes, I'll say, yes, so is it. But above all, we are facing a governance problem when that type of decision needs to be taken unprepared and quickly. This is why the Government is proposing reforms in the top management of the defence. The leadership of the Defence Department – the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Command – is far too large and resource-intensive compared to the Defence for the rest and has not adapted to the size of the strength structure in the 1990s. At the same time, the two entities are not well organised to perform their strategic tasks, such as long-term defence planning, crisis management and international cooperation. The government therefore recommends that the distance be as short as possible between the political decisions, their exercise and what is to be reorganised. Therefore, the Government recommends that the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces be lowered and that the Chief of Defense be integrated into the Ministry of Defence. At the same time, the Chief of Defence shall be a well-seen Head of Defence. This approach will strengthen the strategic focus of defence management, as well as strengthen military professional competence in the vicinity of actual political leadership. Consequently, the organisation of defence will be a priority work for the Government in the future, on the basis of its final decision in this area. We know that here there'll probably be a different view of the models, but probably not a different view of the meaning of doing this much better than before. The introduction of so-called horizontal trade has proved to be a comprehensive and demanding process in such a large body as the Defence, but it will focus on establishing, for example: a Joint Defence Logistics Organisation, known as the Defence Logistics Organisation, to which the Stortinget agreed for relatively few months. Summary: I see the National Audit Office's document as an important and solid contribution to improving governance of the Norwegian defence system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e431	I am pleased that the Minister for Defence is taking part in this debate which we have in the light of the review carried out by the Riksrevision in its report. I find the views of the Minister of Defence to be interesting, but I have a prayer to the Minister of Defence. The new change in the defence is very extensive for both parts of the country, municipalities and others who are concerned with the defence. Of course, we have to base the main objective of defence, and we have to have a credible and good defence – that is very important. That the defense is a priority work from the Government, I also think it is pleasing. But I have a heart attack. It goes on the process of conversion that we are still in in the defence, and on the number argument behind many of the decisions taken in terms of location, where the defence is to be located, and which facilities to keep. Because it is clear that in the process of conversion to release funds for investment in equipment and such things, one, at least we who are representatives, sees that from the municipality by municipality from part of the country by part of the country, running delegations come to us as big-scale politicians and present figures that are completely contrary to what is in the proposition that the defence committee is now dealing with. So at least I want to ask that the Minister of Defence and the Department, who is probably familiar with this already, be observant about this, so that we do not later receive national audit reports and review of the process of conversion that show that the figures for which the ministry has gone well, and the instructions given through decisions that have been taken, do not go financially – to use an expression that I have seen others use, at least in the literature.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e436	The President will assume that ‘grip’ is a well-known term in several directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e439	I can assure you that the representative Kleppe is not the only one who has been exposed to local delegations with different calculations. I think it concerns all of us, not least in connection with the conversion of the Defense. Of course, we need to take it very seriously. From the Ministry's point of view, many of these questions do not give us any clear preference for one or the other. We've committed ourselves to a big goal, and that's that over the next four years, we're going to reduce the annual operating costs of Defense by $2 billion, through a cheaper and better way of running things. Unfortunately, we have too many garrisons, lay-outs and facilities all over the country. Everyone says: Come to us, we're tipping top modern -- it's an exaggeration some places -- we're so good that we really need all the business here, so good we are. But we are, and I think that applies to all the parties, in discussing a structure that is based on something other than what we had in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, and then we can't operate all the garrison and plant for half the machine or less than that. We're going to have to regroup in a few less places, and it's not certain that the choice between A and B is so very difficult in terms of the difference financially, but we can't choose both A and B within a slimmer structure. Then it'll be too expensive. Otherwise, of course, we take responsibility for all the calculations contained in the proposal, and we are, not unexpectedly, in a continuous dialogue – on ‘question and response wavelength’ – with the Committee on Quality Assurance of all the calculations that come, not just from South Africa, but from the whole country. It's very easy to make calculations that look different than the ministry, because what we're discovering today is that everyone likes to attract business and run as cheap as possible where they are, to prove that this can be done cheaply. But over a year and a half, as Minister of Defence, I have been exposed to delegations from the same places as they have immediately received the business, saying that it must be invested in order to comply with the Storting decision. So here it's a certain double going out and going, which is well-known, I think, both in the committee and in the Stortinget. But the message is important enough, and of course we're doing serious work on the data base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e460	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e474	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e485	The Ministry of St.prp. No 52 for 2000-2001 proposals for changes under individual chapters and items in the 2001 government budget. The proposal includes three measures. The first concerns measures against cow disease, the second concerns measures against the Q-meierines, and the third concerns ad hoc aid following major losses and production failures in reindeer management in parts of East Finland, West Finland and Trom's reindeer grazing areas. The development of mental health in Europe has triggered the need to take many and rapid decisions both in the EU and in Norway. Here in Norway, the measures have been initiated despite Norway being considered the best member of the class in terms of the likelihood of finding BSE infection in the animal population. In my view, the Government has acted quickly and correctly. Like EU decisions, the monitoring and control programme is likely to continue after 1 June 2001, including in this country. The government will return to the Storting regarding the costs of the test programme. Exceptional agricultural negotiations have been carried out in the light of the situation with regard to the risk of cow disease and the need for measures to ensure consumer safety. The negotiations concerned only the current period, which expires in June of this year. I see it as very important that there is agreement between the state and the agricultural organisations on how to distribute the increase in costs in relation to the extraordinary costs. All lots represented in the Committee shall be used for the supplementary appropriations. However, I am somewhat surprised at the comments made by the Christian People's Party and the Left in the matter, where they claim that an import ban on live cattle would have been effective and cost-effective. I would remind you here that the importation of live animals is legal and regulated by the EEA Agreement, and that the use of the safeguard clause should be made clean, since its unjustified use may have consequences for Norwegian commercial interests. The representatives of these parties show little willingness to take over the fact that we have an EEA agreement that regulates this. As regards the Q dairies, the members of the Committee agree to provide additional appropriations for the 2001 financial year. This is based on the fact that the Storting has wanted framework conditions that provide a real basis for competition. Q dairies have now had major problems in achieving profitable operations. This has led to a need for follow-up so that the competition currently established on the market does not disappear. The matter has been discussed between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Norwegian Farmers' Association, the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Q-Meieriene. And in the light of these discussions, it is proposed that a temporary arrangement be established. The reason why ad hoc aid is proposed for reindeer management in parts of East Finland, West Finland and Trom’s reindeer pastures is that major losses and production failures have occurred in reindeer management in those areas. A number of written enquiries have reported a crisis for large areas of reindeer management in Finnmark and parts of Troms. The acute loss situation has caused major economic problems for many reindeer families. The aid shall be allocated to holdings in the most severely affected districts and then linked to the production failure of the industry in the last few years, irrespective of the reason. There is also a broad consensus in the Committee on the granting of additional appropriations for the 2001 financial year. The exception is the Progress Party and the representative of Terje Knudsen. The guidelines for the aid scheme shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, as well as by the NRL and the Sameting. Now I see that there has been a proposal from the representative Randi Karlstrøm. I ask the representative to convert this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e513	The Christian People's Party has two speakers in this context, and I will concentrate on the proposal for ad hoc support for reindeer families in crisis. We have put forward a proposal today asking the Government to develop guidelines for the exceptional support to these families, so that the aim is to provide support to all legally reindeer owners, regardless of whether they have not complied with the slaughter requirement of the reindeer management agreement in recent years. The background to the promotion of such a proposal is the concern that this crisis package should not reach the group that needs it most. We know that in order to meet the slaughter requirement, you must have animals that you can slaughter. Several families have now slaughtered live animals for several years in order to comply with the slaughter requirement, and a certain point is reached when the slaughter requirement can no longer be met. There are also, of course, other reasons for not complying with the slaughter requirement, where financial gain can be obtained by other means. However, it is quite clear that there are some people who have intended to enter into the reindeer management agreement, but who are unable to comply with the slaughter requirement and thus fall outside the existing arrangements. This effect over the years is one of the reasons why several families have come into an economic crisis out of which they are unable to escape. Letters to the Ministry asked how many of those affected by the crisis were not covered by the redundancy agreement. The Ministry then answers: ‘We do not have an exact figure of how many have been affected by the crisis that is not covered by the reindeer management agreement,’ but refers to a table that is attached, which shows a picture of the situation. I clearly believe that this is information that the ministry should obtain quite precise figures before these guidelines are drawn up. If you look at the overview of the holdings, it turns out, among other things. that in West Finland 64 pst. by the holdings, reindeer farmers, families, out of the contract because they do not meet the requirement. That means 64 pst. the reindeer operators do not benefit from or benefit from the reindeer management agreement. Then they lose significantly with income. As I said, there are many reasons for this, but I am very concerned about the combination of predators – grazing weight, and that it comes out correctly. But I also recognise that the information may be difficult to obtain. The worst thing for many is the combination of predator loss, lack of replacement plus failure to meet the slaughter requirement. The fact that you cannot comply with the slaughtering requirement cannot be said to come from the reindeer management agreement. In addition, you don't actually have meat to sell and live off that way. That's an important part of the income, of course. This ball goes on year after year. I raised this issue with the Minister of Agriculture in the Questionnaire some time ago and got quite good signals there. I'm referring to that exchange of words. I just want to say that the main point is that a crisis package in the reindeer should be a crisis package for those who are in crisis, and not just for those who are currently approved by the reindeer management agreement. The effect of predatory losses is difficult to determine clearly, and the cases are inconclusive. This crisis develops over several years and has several reasons. We in the Christian People's Party do not want the crisis to be exploited for what many perceive as raw, involuntary structuralisation, and to be harmed to strengthen existing biases. We are very interested in how the Minister assesses this proposal. I just want to say in the end that it's a huge challenge to get on with new nutrition developments in the reindeer and not just on meat. I'm very negative to what's now developing, that the reintroduction is going on more and more with trailers, and that you lose a lot of the cultural element and the cultural argument that the reintroduction has, even in the value creation context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e532	Has the President realized that the proposal has been taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e535	Yes, the proposal has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e540	In the milk sector, perhaps the biggest challenge, both at the producer and processing stages, is that consumption continues to decline, and that, for the year as such, we can expect, according to our WTO regulations and the agreement with the WTO, to be able to produce approximately. One and a half million gallons of milk. This means that it will still be a challenge to achieve a greater balance in the market, while continuing to pursue a policy of buying quotas from the country. The result, of course, is that this again has a strenuous effect on the economic situation at all levels in the milk production sector. At the same time, it is well established that despite the changes and measures put in place to ensure real competition in the dairy sector, the Q dairies have had major problems in achieving profitable operations. It is important to ensure fair framework conditions for independent dairies. Today's system is originally designed to avoid competition. The rules that we have, which are designed to ensure competition, are simply not good enough and enable Tine to determine the conditions under which competition is to take place. Today’s measures to ensure the continued life of Q dairies and competition in the milk market are a temporary system that needs to be replaced by a more equitable system that ensures both the cooperative and the independent producers fair framework conditions. When a work is to be undertaken with a view to finding a new market organisation for milk, it is important that the investigation be carried out by an independent environment which can be considered without prejudice to the long-term best solution for both the consumer, the milk producer and, in particular, competition in the market. When it comes to measures against jealousy, I just want to make it clear that we think the department followed up in a neat and wise manner a difficult situation in the winter and early spring, and that we so far support the Government in this area. So finally to the proposal of the intermediate parties that have been submitted. I would strongly urge, as has been done in the past in the debate, that this proposal be submitted, because it may not have been sufficiently elaborated. First, it means that the current negotiating regime will have to be replaced, where one will set aside part of the assumptions and legislation of the current framework for the agreement between the State and the reindeer industry, the so-called reindeer management agreement. It would simply have to be dissolved if the assumptions contained in the proposal were to be adopted. I am also not sure that this type of proposal, which is so unpresiduous in form, which is intended to ensure the weakest, but which can have the effect that one will make the greatest contribution to those who do not need emergency aid and assistance, is for the benefit of the industry as such. We have a regime that claims compensation for losses due to robberies, and we have a reindeer agreement that, in my opinion, with some nuances, works well enough, and that also, through this year's agreement, ensures a solid increase in the framework included in the existing reindeer management agreement. So this type of proposal will have a greater negative impact on the reindeer industry than I think the proposers actually have as their aim when they present this proposal. So I strongly recommend the proposers to have this sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e555	The Ministry of Agriculture has submitted proposals for changes under individual chapters and items in the 2001 State budget. In addition, changes in target prices have been proposed. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that additional appropriations should be made to cover the costs of the extended monitoring and control programme for bovine animals. Although Norway is the best member of the BSE status and prevention class in Europe, the EU decision is nevertheless followed up on the extension of the BSE monitoring programme. These measures are not implemented in order to achieve the same level of safety as Europe, but in order to ensure the safety performance of Norway. There are shared opinions on how to finance these actions. The Government proposes that the bill for prevention measures be financed by redeploying the current 43 million agricultural agreement. NOK 15 million. kr in proportion to the industry, while consumers have to pay 42 million. kr in increased prices of pigmeat, eggs and poultry meat. The lead position of the Progress Party is that the total cost of the counter-cow action is to be financed from the State budget. It is unreasonable that the costs of the new measures against BSE should be borne by livestock producers. However, I have registered that the parties have reached an agreement on the cost coverage of the exceptional agricultural negotiations, and therefore no proposals for funding from our side will be promoted. However, the party of progress will signal that we believe that manufacturers are not going to finance new control measures against BSE that will come. The size has been concerned with ensuring effective competition in the milk sector. TINE Norske Meierierier has been an almost monopolistic, and it has been very difficult to create competition in processing based on open, comparable and equal conditions. It is therefore very important, within today’s managed agricultural production, where the milk sector is the most well-regulated, to establish a temporary arrangement with the Q dairies, which have significant problems, inter alia. due to poor framework conditions. The rules that exist today are perceived as unfair and do not encourage competition. New consumer milk dairies must be linked to milk suppliers from day 1 because they cannot rely on the obligation to supply tine, which has become limited. Although those starting up would want large-scale milk production for human consumption, they need to build up their capacity gradually, as it takes time to obtain their own suppliers. This is due to the fact that the milk quota system effectively controls the raw material. This makes the start-up phase particularly difficult for drinking milk dairies. The lead lot is primarily opposed to all milk being produced within quotas. The removal of the quota system in the milk system will significantly improve the possibilities for free competition and alternative actors. We're alone to mean this. That's why we need to work subsidiaryly to find acceptable arrangements for Tine's competitors within the existing system. The Party meets the investigation to be carried out under the auspices of NILF and its partners in order to establish competition in the milk market in general and in the consumer milk market in particular. In East and West Finland and Trom's reindeer pastures, predators and extreme winter climate caused production losses and subsequent economic problems in reindeer management. For us, it is important to link reindeer losses with overgrazing of low grazing areas that have lasted for many years. The severe degradation and environmental disaster we have seen have not been solved through planned economically managed actions and grant and regulatory schemes that have been tried in the past. The appropriations proposed will have no positive effect on the fact that the degradation caused by reindeer has damaged more than 70 pst. of the ecosystem of the Finnmarks. It will have no positive effect whatsoever or produce results in the form of solutions to operational, environmental or animal protection problems. Therefore, the Progress Party will oppose the proposed allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e570	The centre party will join in the changes in appropriations proposed in the proposal, but we also have critical comments on the issues dealt with. First, the operating aid for the Q dairies. The size has asked for real competition in the milk market and the Stortinget has decided on the design of the competition rules. It has not been said until now that we will have free competition, cost what it will cost. But that's what's in the proposition, and the government is proposing it, because it knows that it has the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party for it. What's standing here, and what's behind it, is to give the Q-meierines what they're asking for, and that the suction tube is to be inserted into the funds of the agricultural agreement. I think it's a very suspicious development. These dairies are allowed to maintain a higher price for their milk suppliers than others and to continue to receive additional State aid. Amendments to the market organisation for milk have been made following technical investigations and negotiations and a specific start-up aid has now been granted to these dairies for five years. Now it has to be increased. I believe this is a caricature of free competition. An additional price is guaranteed to the suppliers of the Q-meierines, the owners do not have to assume their responsibilities as owners, and there is no firmness from the political majority in terms of future conditions. The difference between the cooperative meeries and the Q dairies and the cause of the problems within the Q dairies is, in my opinion, that the cooperative is owned by people who have built up large capital without taking dividends. They have been willing to accept price levels for all investments in their local dairy business over the decades, and they are still subject to such pressures. I know that sometimes it was paid out zero cents per. liters of milk, because it was simply empty in the dairy box. Tine has building owners, and that's why we've got the situation that we have. Tine is therefore solid. This must not lead to the punishment of Tine's owners for competition. I don't think it can go on like this, but agriculture has then taken note that the government has a majority in the Storting for its proposals. The investigations to be carried out, I agree with the Right that they should be independent investigations, but when they are available, they must be based on what is to be provided by the Community. So over to the extra costs of being ensnared in other countries. We do not need to import live cattle in Norway, and we do not need it. We have been able to cover the need for breeding material in the case of bovine animals by importing embryos. There have been strong professional warnings against importing new infections by importing live cattle. There has been strong opposition to such imports from consumers, and there has been strong resistance from agriculture. And then the Center Party has joined it. The risk of contracting the infection of bovine animals is due only to the liberalisation of animal imports and imports of feed. And that's the responsibility of the authorities. I therefore believe it is wrong to send the bill for the measures that have now been implemented to consumers and to agriculture. It should have been covered by the state budget; it's the only logical thing in the opinion of the Center Party. In the exceptional agricultural negotiations during the crisis, agricultural organisations have agreed to allocate additional costs up to 1 July 2001, which then transfers some of the burdens to consumers and to agriculture. Because that consensus was reached, the Center Party will deviate from the principle position that we have. The government’s argument that agriculture should be involved is, as stated in the proposal, to ensure consumer confidence in Norwegian meat. That is precisely why agriculture wanted zero imports of live animals and feed. The allocation of costs must be made on a free basis, regardless of what has happened here. So finally a little bit about the extended testing program for cattle. From a professional point of view with which the Committee has been in contact, it has not been hidden from the question of the rationale of implementing the extended programme. It costs a lot of money, and it has also been said quite correctly that according to a professional assessment and according to Norwegian conditions, that money could have been better spent using them for other things. Will there be a new professional assessment based on the situation we have in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e598	SV will join the setting, but we have some comments for it. With regard to measures against jealousy, we support what the government has done here, but we are, like the centre parties, very concerned about whether we are not able to find any other measures that can limit the risk of infection in general. It must be allowed to ask whether trade in live animals is necessary — the Minister has recommended the importation of embryos and semen instead — and whether there could not be any other intervention by the Government to mitigate the risk of infection. There have been very many strong signals from many parties and from the Minister that there is a need for innovation in agriculture to address the problems of infectious diseases. And then we need a lot of action. With regard to the way in which the costs are to be covered, SV has from the very beginning rolled up, supported the third in terms of the recovery of the costs. We think that makes sense. It is probably unreasonable for some producers to bear part of the costs here, but if we are to have agriculture transformed in an environmentally friendly way, I think it is important that both the authorities, the producer and the consumer get a reasonable idea of what the price of this is. When it comes to the measures proposed for reindeer management, we are in favour of them. But we will also express a very strong concern about the environmental situation, the ecological crisis, on the Finnmarks. It's dramatic, and it actually requires dramatic action. With regard to the proposal that the centre has put on the table today, I would like to support those who say that this proposal should be submitted, because it contains elements that I believe can work in the wrong direction. While it is true that some producers may face an economic crisis now, the economic crisis is much greater if the ecological crisis is allowed to continue to develop. Therefore, it is not considered that it is right now to intervene in the work being done by the Government, but will strongly support the Government that strong measures are needed here. In the case of milk production, SV shares many of the concerns raised by Morten Lund of the Centre Party, but at the same time we would point out that in the case of the cooperative arrangement we have had, which has been a joint arrangement, and which has built up values – the whole reasoning there is right – it is also right to say that the large cooperative organisations have not been able to meet new demands either from consumers or producers, among other things. in the case of centralisation policy. There have been strong protests. And that's also one of the reasons why new producers have come up, and that consumers have been asking for other products. So here it's an interaction. We support what the Government is doing now, but we will reserve the right to come back to the matter when we see how it develops, and what long-term measures the Government is taking to get a sensible situation with regard to milk production, which both takes care of the solidarity of the producer's payment systems and also ensures that there is opportunity for others who want to develop alongside the large, heavy cooperative organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e617	In recent decades, and perhaps especially in recent years, we have experienced an agricultural situation under pressure. There's still focus on prices, cheaper food, even though we're using less of our income on food now than ever before. What's important is to remember that we have to find the right balance between the ecological part and the economic part. The pendulum must not turn too far in favour of economic affairs. Then nature will react. And we have more examples of that. We must be happy with the good animal health we have in Norway, and it is also important in the future that we act on the safe side and always have the precautionary principle in mind. It is stupid that production is wanted so efficiently and so industrialized that it goes beyond the health aspect. It is stupid that one then in the next round must spend resources and resources on problems that are a consequence of high efficiency requirements. Envy can be such an outcome. And the cost of such epidemics and their prevention is, in the Left's view, a clear social responsibility. Therefore, such costs should be covered by the State budget and not be borne by producers. In the present case, the organisations and the state have reached an agreement, and it is noted. However, if similar situations arise in the future, the Left has made its view valid on how to cover costs. As far as the Q-meierines are concerned, it is clear that there is a small production here, and this leads to scalloping. We see that it is a problem to get profitable operations. The current system of price balancing after milking is an important part of the agricultural policy system for the milk sector. Competition is also important in such areas as this, but it must be within a given framework. It is important that all competition between future actors takes place on real and equivalent terms, and therefore we look forward to a more detailed assessment of the place of Q dairies in the milk sector. We record again that the Progress Party does not want concessions in the case of milk production. I often reflect on the agricultural picture we had in Norway if the policies of the Progress Party were to be implemented in such an area. I am pleased that the Progress Party is alone in such thoughts. Otherwise, the Left supports the comments that come from the centre parties and the proposal for a decision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e632	The size of the population is currently addressing the issue of additional appropriations for action against cow disease, actions against the Q-meierines and ad hoc support for major losses and production failures in parts of East Finland, West Finland and the Reinebet regions of Trom. The Ministry of Agriculture has proposed that changes be made to some chapters and items of the 2001 State budget. In addition, proposals have been made for changes in the target prices of the agricultural agreement. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal for additional appropriations under the current agricultural agreement to cover part of the costs associated with the extended monitoring and control programme for bovine animals, BSE. The government assumes that the testing programme will be extended to all animals over 30 months from 1 July, but will not go further in testing than what our neighbouring country does. The Ministry is working on a proposal on how to finance an extended testing programme for all cattle over 30 months of age, and I will come back to Stortinget with the details of the proposal. I have noticed that a unanimous committee agrees with the Government's proposal on temporary measures against the Q-meierines. The proposal provides for a special subsidy to be granted to existing small drinking milk dairies until 1 January 2003. This is to be financed for 2001 by an increase in heading 73, Chapter 1150, for the implementation of the agricultural agreement. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that it would be unfortunate for competition in the dairy sector if the Q dairies were currently forced to cease their production. I am seriously afraid that we would not get new competitors to establish themselves in the consumer milk sector in the foreseeable future if this had happened. However, I understand the comments made by the Committee's minority that the Q dairies have so far come up with products where they have large economies of scale. From the Ministry's point of view, we have advised the Q-meierines that if new players are to compete with TINE Norske Meierierien, greater creativity and more untraditional bets are required than we have seen so far. I also agree that the pricing system must be based on the fact that each dairy is responsible for its own profitability. The clear objective of long-term competition in the sector is to take place on equivalent and transparently comparable terms. Until 1 January 2003, we shall use to assess the conditions for competition in the milk market in general and in the consumer milk market in particular. We need to look at the conditions that must be in place for us to have a competition that meets the objectives of competition. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that additional appropriations will be made for the current financial year to remedy the situation that has arisen in parts of East Finland, West Finland and Trom's reindeer pastures after major losses and production failures. I would therefore like to make the necessary contacts with the other departments immediately after today's treatment, with the Sametinget and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsverbund on the guidelines for the scheme, so that extra payments can be made as soon as possible – and as soon as possible is quite important in this context. I am registering the post that the representative Karlstrøm has kept here today, and I have of course also registered the proposal that has been promoted from the three centre parties. I am asking for an understanding that it is difficult to fully understand the consequences of the proposal, but I believe to record a positive will both in the submission from Karlstrøm and in the proposal. I will therefore carefully consider the proposal if the Stortinget follows the many calls that have come to submit the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e654	Q dairies have for a longer time been the subject of more discussions and more attention from the Economic and Social Committee on the Storting than any other further refiners in agriculture, and probably also other farms in Norway, if one looks at the reports in different documents and in relation to committee visits. I'm interested in hearing how far the government is willing to go to meet the demands of the owners of the Q-meierines. Is it so that any claim from these dairies will be accepted? Will the financial requirements be burdened on those producers who say no to the offer of additional prices from the Q-meierines, which prioritise the multi-generational community that has been the basis for a nationwide agriculture in this country? I believe it is unreasonable for others to be punished because the Storting will have a real and free competition. Should not owners of such companies have a long-term perspective, expect to have losses for a few years before they come upstairs, as do very many other business owners? Based on the names of the owners of these dairies mentioned, an absolute belief would be that they had the spine to bear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e661	As I said in my post, the basics of what Morten Lund here is expressing, which I understand. But let me try to describe what I'm thinking about this challenge. There is no doubt that we are struggling to find a good model of how to organise this with competition in the milk sector. We have tried several times, last year at the latest, to put in place a model that can be long-term in relation to a milk sector with competition. There is a lot of evidence that we still haven't found the model that can be a sustainable starting point for a long-term competitive situation. That is why we have decided to review again the whole competition situation in the milk sector in general and in the consumer milk sector in particular. We have decided this time to have an independent investigation in relation to the issue, and NILF, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, will conduct the investigation together with other actors. It shall be completed by 1 January 2003. That's the long-term important thing. And it has been that when we have concluded from the department that we are still not satisfied with the model, it has been important that the player who is on the track, like a competitor in the consumer milk market, can have reasonable working conditions so that they do not go bankrupt pending this investigation. It's not that any claim from the Q dairies has been met. But now we have come to an understanding with the Q dairies that the conditions they now have are reasonable and will work until 1 January 2003. And that has been the purpose of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e670	I am very pleased with the Minister's assessment of the proposal that has been promoted by the central parties, and the attitude towards what is our intention. We accept that the proposal will be converted into a transmission proposal, because we feel that the matter is in good hands. I also see this with that this can happen as quickly as possible, as a big point. But I would like to remind you that there have already been signs from, among other things, The rapporteur in Karasjok, Kjell Sæther, said that the money pot might be too small. So in that case the minister gets back to Stortinget, if it's actually a real problem. I think it is sad for the reindeer to still have to ask for emergency packages. And all the negatives the industry gets are a huge burden on the practitioners. That's why it's incredibly important to get into a more positive track. This with the value creation program around reindeer meat is very important, a great bet that I fully support. But it is also important to focus on the more traditional environmentally friendly forms of operation. And in that context, I think it is incredibly important to listen to the signals given by the women's network regarding agricultural policy. I think it's time now to really listen to them and the horn's top fatters what they think about reintroduction with trailers – whether this is the right development for the industry. It's a little bit urgent. We have lost ten years, with a conversion program that has largely failed in relation to what was the ambition. So I wish the Minister every success in the important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e681	The President records that the Minister does not want the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e684	I tried in my post with a question about an evaluation of the test programme to be extended from 1 July. And the Council of State said in its speech that we should expand it to the extent that the neighbouring countries do. I am concerned that we will receive the Norwegian health professional assessments and that it is based on this. Based on the Committee's contacts with our health professionals, it is at least clear that technical questions are being asked as to whether there is a basis in Norway for carrying out the large testing that consumes so much money and so much professional resources to implement the programme, and also, of course, in relation to other health measures that we could have spent that money on. So my question is: Will there be a professional assessment by Norwegian health professionals of the need for the extended testing that has been announced?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e691	Yes, it is quite natural that we have contact with Norwegian health authorities, not only Folkehelsa, but also on the animal side, i.e. veterinary assistance, animal health surveillance, etc. But my point of linking what I said in my post, up to our neighboring country, has two sides. One side of this case is of course the purely professional assessments. They're part of it all. The other side of the case is the perceived security that consumers always feel. If the final decision in the EU system — now it is to be assessed — is to decide that all animals over 30 months of age should be tested fully across the EU, i.e. that such testing should be carried out in both Sweden and Finland, which is also BSE-free per year. Today, it is my opinion that it would be unwise for us to say that we should not do the same in Norway. Because then I think we can be met marketably that ‘and in addition, all our cows are tested’. And even though we have a great deal of confidence in the Norwegian animal population, I think it would be wise for us to test all the animals for at least a few hours, a year or two before, on an independent basis, based on the findings we have then, ask to evaluate another test form.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e698	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e701	In my opinion, we met a rather nuanced and reflective Council of State in his contribution today. That's what I'm going to try to follow up in my post, and I'm going to try to find an approach angle to a conversation. When it comes to the problem of jealousy, the case-speaker in his speech made a visit to the Christian People's Party and the Left, and was a little surprised at these parties. It may be necessary to remember prehistory: these parties voted against the veterinary agreement, but a plurality in the Stortinget wanted it, and so the government put Bondevik in charge of it, and of course it has to manage it. The debate on judgement has gone on is: When does a health professional have enough grounds to impose a temporary ban? In the setting, it's clear that we're in favour of it, and that we want to evaluate it further as well. Right now I want to focus on this with a temporary ban on the import of live animals. We have had a very special situation in Europe, and it would have to be interesting, when it's time to relax, to try out not necessarily a temporary import ban on slaughter and goods, but a temporary ban on living animals, so that the platform we have in Norway – and in part also in the rest of Scandinavia, but in any case in Norway – is not given the greatest risk moment, which all research says is living animals. It would have to be interesting to consider it in relation to the negotiations. It is obvious that we have to comply with the agreements that are under way, but at the same time it should be interesting for Europe that there are some areas that are actually free of infection. Otherwise, it is clear from the vote what we think about how this should be financed, but we therefore agree with the proposals for decisions. So a little bit about the measures. I agree with the assessment now made by the Council of State that if the EU decides on such a large testing programme, it would be irresponsible not to do the same. It has something to do with status. At the same time, it is a paradox – when you see how much money you spend on this. We are currently working on and dealing with another matter in the committee, and this is the case with the veterinary agreement, where it is primarily a professional law, but also with national preparedness. And one of the reasons why there is no agreement now between the Government and the veterinarians is the lack of money in the agreement, as it was released from the Stortinget. When you look at what a user here, it's kind of a paradox: maybe these money could be invested in a different place – for a long-term animal health. I think that as a reflection it's interesting enough, but I'm still in agreement with the Council of State in his assessment. If the EU decides on such a large programme, it is necessary to implement it for us too. If not, the very question mentioned by the Council of State may be raised. Then to Q-meieria. I believe that the cooperative organisations and the milk co-operation have a good competitive edge. I think they have a good idea that this option has come. At the same time, however, it is clear that the debate is very simple. I'm not saying it's in the proposition, but it's very much simplified in the total social debate. In relation to universal service and law and to the soundness of this system, a very common calculation is presented that is completely meaningless. It is clear that such a total coverage that is in the agreement today involves a great responsibility, and it costs money. And it is obvious that the freestandings that arise – and I would like to see them emerge – are forced to pay the right price to the community for the system to function in total. I thought, therefore, it's taking a good initiative when we actually get this review. I want someone to breathe cooperatively in the neck, not least in relation to the centralization trend that has been. But it also makes a clear demand for us to be nuanced in relation to the total debate on the prices of agricultural products in society, based on the overall situation in Europe today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e719	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e722	I do not take the floor primarily to extend the debate, but because I feel that I have something important I should have said. This concerns the situation of the reindeer industry. Both in the proposition and also as the case is now mentioned, a direct link is often made between loss and malnutrition. And that's a slightly dangerous short-circuit -- if that's the perception. The predator press is incredibly big. Jerven is waiting for us when we get here, as they say in reindeer grazing district 16 c. The prey is low compared to what you assume the predators have taken. There should have been some work here to get more correct numbers. In the Nord-Trøndelag, how much is actually taken by predators was researched, and some of the reindeer operators – as I have been informed – were paid after payment. A sense of abstinence to the predatory situation as it is. I can tell you about someone named Kirsten Berit, who was the side leader in District 16c. She told me that her reindeer crew gave birth to 90 calves last year. The animals were marked in June/July, and by the marking there were 70 calves. But when they collected the reindeer after the summer season – during the summer season there are no restrictions on bedding, we have enough of summer grazing in Finnmark – there were 10 calves left. The kids didn't find the calves again with their marks. That night, said Kirsten Berit, she wept. The crisis in the reindeer industry is also a matter of sound predatory policies in the reindeer pastures. The puree is exposed to predators throughout the year. And the Yurve tribe in Finnmark is too big. Jerven also takes large, fat animals, and it takes the calves to big, fat animals, it doesn't just take the skinny. We don't have to make this too simple. On the side of Kirsten Berit there are 3,500 animals – there are several families on this side – but this summer season they must live with five yerves. How many of them have coal, you don't know right. Finally, I would like to call for an active support during the traditional reintroduction, where the flock moves towards the coast on its own feet as it grazes. Many families bring their children with them when they move from inland to the coast in three weeks. I attended this as a tourist for two days a week ago. You should have tried that! It was a bit of a tourist product. But who would try to sell a tourist offer to drive a trailer to the coast? It's gonna be my little challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2948]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e752	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e763	This case concerns a proposal from the Socialist Left that a big message be made on organic agricultural production. The Committee has examined the matter and rejects the SV proposal as it has been formulated, bearing in mind that a year ago we left a rather ambitious plan for organic farming, that 10 pst. the agricultural area shall be in organic production by 2010. When we look at Norway today and how organic production is designed, this is a rather ambitious goal. The Committee agrees that such a plan should be facilitated. In a letter to us, the Minister has also presented the plans that the Ministry has put forward for further work. The Committee considers it appropriate that, in order to be able to follow up this plan on an annual basis, the Ministry should report annually on the results and further work until 2010. There may be an appropriate way to keep track of this work. At the same time, the Committee considers that an additional market price is a prerequisite both for the development of organic farming and for the economy of producers. The Committee agrees and assumes that demand and market opportunities in Norway and abroad are good. However, the Minister has also pointed out – and I think that is a very relevant assessment – that during this escalation period up to 2010 that we are now in, however, we must be willing to accept that there may be a temporary imbalance between supply and demand. We must reach that goal, but accept that we must take action that cannot be fully defended in the individual year. In several regions of Norway there will be no economic basis for logistics for both organic and conventional production. This is especially true in North Norway. Organic production also has biological challenges in terms of finding plant material within current efficiency requirements. For example, in the case of: in the case of clover in North Norway, there are major problems in finding sufficient plant material, so there is a research and development work to be done within the subarctic zone. The Committee refers to its comments at the Innst. S. 167 for 1999-2000 in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, About Norwegian agriculture and food production, which highlighted the need for a study in Arctic agriculture and nature use at the University of Tromsø. The Committee asks the Government to assess the feasibility of launching this study at the University of Tromsø from the autumn of 2001. According to the information I have received, such a start-up cost 1.3 million. kr. It has been practically arranged from the University of Tromsø to enable you to get it started from the autumn of 2001. I hope the Minister will contact his fellow research and education colleagues in the College of Ministers so that we can manage to achieve this in 2001. It would have been very important. There is also a game between organic farming and a general ecology of Norwegian agriculture. The size pointed out in the evaluation of the agricultural agreement last year with a general view – that one uses the tools to ensure the universality of production. I hope it is possible to arrive at agricultural agreements in the future that not only support groups that operate organically but that support the entire ecologicalisation that we have to do. There is universality absolutely fundamental. It is also absolutely fundamental to have more domestic animals in the East. It has not been said that canalisation policy should be broken, but a universality of plant production and livestock production is in a way the foundation of all organic agricultural thinking. Another important assessment in this context is the land resources we have in Norway, which is large, and the mode of production needs to be adapted to natural conditions. Then we will also take advantage of the comparative advantage that Norway has with enough water and enough grass.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e784	In view of the dramatic disease situation in several places in Europe, it is quite natural that the issue of a stronger ecologisation of agriculture is raised with us too. However, as the opinion shows, a unanimous committee does not consider it appropriate to ask the Government to draw up its own monitoring report on this issue at this stage. It is only one year since the Stortinget dealt with an overall agricultural report where organic production was included, and where the Stortinget joined the Government's future development goal. On the basis of developments in the Norwegian market and consumption trends in our neighbouring countries, the Government considered that there is a basis for the objective of 10 pst. of the total agricultural area shall be converted into organic land over a period of 10 years. Although we still have much left to do, there has been a positive development in this area. Over the period 1995–98, the number of use increased from about 600 to 1500, an increase of under 150 pst. When the Communication was presented in December 1999, there was an imbalance between the development of organic primary production and the market for organic products in Norway. The notification shows that this had a particular background in the early development of the market for organic products, in which trade flows and market communications were not sufficiently developed. It was therefore emphasised that the further development of the organic food market had to be given special priority in the future. The market situation does not appear to have changed significantly since the message was written and processed. The same issues remain valid. I have also noticed that there are different views among business professionals about the size of the market opportunities, among other things. in the case of organic meat. While some claim that the market is not big enough, others claim that their biggest problem is the lack of organic raw materials. This shows the need for both efforts to build a large enough market and to put in place satisfactory distribution solutions. In the Ministry's letter of 18 April this year, the Council of State indicates that strategies and action plans for organic farming have been developed during 1999 and 2000 in key areas such as research and market development. Both bottlenecks and possibilities for further development have been analysed and the necessary measures identified in these plans. With regard to the subsidy scheme aimed at organic producers, a recent evaluation shows that the schemes now have an appropriate device. According to the State Council's letter, the Ministry has a good overview of the action needed to achieve that objective in terms of organic land by 2010. I have also noticed that this is a topic in the agricultural negotiations. On this basis, I and the rest of the Committee share the view of the Council of State that a separate communication is not appropriate now. What counts in time is the implementation of the necessary measures in practice. It is an important objective for the Workers' Party to develop Norwegian agriculture through an active environmental and resource policy in order to achieve ecological sustainability. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the Environment Action Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2001-2004. This plan addresses a variety of issues in this area, from the protection of biodiversity, eutrophication and oil pollution, health and environmental chemicals to waste and recycling. And here the necessary measures are prescribed. Organic farming is known to be based on environmentally friendly practices without the use of pesticides and fertilisers. The recycling of nutrients, the conservation of genetic diversity and species wealth is an example of key objectives. Organic production contributes to making Norwegian agriculture even more environmentally friendly, both through farming itself and not least by developing farming methods that can be transferred to conventional agriculture, which will also be the basis for our agriculture in the future. Now, I guess the present case and the committee position are not an adequate background for a comprehensive debate on the future of organic farming. However, in a comment, the Committee points out that a more general ecologisation of traditional agriculture may have greater environmental effects than the pure cultivation of organic philosophy for the few. In my view, it's a legitimate question. This is especially true if we see it in a global context, where 75 million new people are to be filled every year, as well as those who are already starving today. To believe that the world community will be able to feed a significant proportion of the population without the use of e.g. fertilizer, I think is idealistic. On the other hand, the ability to create sustainable agriculture that does not cross the boundaries of nature is not only realistic, it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e810	Although the rapporteurs have a right approach to the topic under consideration today, the Committee has concluded that the letter of 18 April from the Minister of Agriculture adequately explains the work being done to increase the production of organically produced agricultural products. The proposers have pointed out – correctly enough – that the efforts that have been made so far have not been particularly successful. It is probably right to describe what the proposers have done, as if it bears the mark of a certain halfheartedness. This half-heartedness has been combined with poor marketing of organically produced products, and so far the result has been worse than you might have expected. But at the same time, I think we're in a new situation, a new time, which is going to provide increased opportunities for organically produced foods. I would also like to add here to what the previous speaker said, that this debate will not serve anything particularly to criticise too strongly in this context the modern agriculture we have in Norway. It is not intended to refer to references outside the country’s borders when pointing to the developments we see in the Norwegian agricultural industry. The goals you have set in Norway, I think are okay enough, but it will ultimately be the customer who will decide whether to meet the ambitions you have. It is completely dependent on the consumer's preference for the number within the time set to be 10 pst, less than 10 pst. or is going to end up over 10 pst. If we look at developments in the European Union, it is actually a market that illustrates that opportunities are very many. There is a rapidly growing EU market in this sector. In 1997, the turnover of organically produced food in the EU was about NOK 40 billion. This figure is expected to increase to a place between 200 and 240 billion in 2005. But, as I said, without the customer and without adequate marketing and product development, we will not be able to reach even the level that the EU now has in this sector. It will also require a number of uses in Norway to convert their production. If you want to meet the local domestic targets, you have to use around 800 people per month. in Norway, re-establish operations to come close to this level. In the end, I would like to say that I have noticed the advice and the recommendation that has been given in the case of niche production, such as, among other things. The Farm and Small User Team has initiated and referred to. I think there is a potential here, and there are several good business concepts waiting, but it requires that someone makes the customer aware that these are products that have the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e823	The Progress Party is behind the vote, and we do not support the request from the Socialist Left that it be appropriate to get a notice of increased efforts in this area now in the field of organic farming. We have taken the signals from the Government, and the political environments have also said their own. In the case of the agricultural notification, which was dealt with last year, all batches addressed this issue in depth. Compared to our neighboring countries, we are left on the market for organic food. Only 2 pst. the agricultural area in Norway is organically operated today. Authorities want to change this situation and have set ambitious targets for this work. By 2010, the share of organically grown area shall be increased to a total of 10 pst. But what is the potential for organic products in Norway? Is the customer actually willing to pay more for the eco-products? It is known that the choice of organic products is linked to the value base. The typical ecological consumer is politically conscious, concerned by nature and the environment and a bit idealistic of the type. In addition, in Central Europe in recent years, particular attention has been paid to food safety, which promotes the interest of organic products. According to one survey, Norwegian consumers believe that the organically grown food is healthier than conventionally grown food. At this point, we do not distinguish ourselves from Europeans in general. The differences are probably more in that we Norwegians have such a basic belief that all food is safe. We connect Norwegian food with both purity and safety. In addition, we are at the top of the European context with regard to the belief in the authority's control of food. The many food scandals in Europe, for which we have been flattered in Norway, can be some of the explanation. A cross of thought is that you can't actually prove scientifically that the organic food tastes better or is healthier than conventional food. As part of the efforts to raise the interest in organic food in Norway, a large campaign for organic products was launched in the autumn of 2000. The campaign, which focused on the Eco-label, was aimed at providing information to influence attitudes towards organic products. Even if you didn't focus on individual products, it was a paradox to bet five million. public crowns on a campaign without actually being available to the consumer. Of course, from the commercial players, it is essential that you really get these products up and go commercial, and they are not today, among other things. because politicians have simply not been willing to pay for the necessary contribution to get the products into the market. Finally, I would like to point out that, during a transitional period, the Progress Party may be willing to contribute subsidies in order to get this production going. But when it's up and down, and the distribution link and the whole chain is fixed, it has to be economic, and it has to be consumers who have to take any additional costs for organic products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e838	I will deal with the proposal that has been distributed. SV believes that there is a need for a separate big message. A few weeks ago, there was a fire of meat in Europe, and everyone was talking about the need for a new agricultural policy. Not in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 or in the proposal for organic farming, research strategies and action plan, an analysis of the nature of organic farming we have today and what kind of organic farming we are going to develop. In the absence of this analysis, it is difficult to control developments. These two main documents do not assess the stage at which the development of organic farming is taking place. The fact that organic farming is perceived to have been developed is now, as a matter of fact, to increase its volume. And the Minister of Agriculture claims that there is now a targeted development. According to SV, this target alignment is now only about raising production and turnover. But we don't get what we want if we don't decide to develop a rational and modern organic farming. Then we need to focus on the new ecologists who use modern agronomy and modern technology, and who are betting on rational production, while not celebrating an empty environment and resource friendliness. It is these environmentally friendly organic farmers who have to shape organic farming outwards, and it is these users' need for new knowledge and technologies that must guide research and development. We must ask the modern eco-founders and the conventional ones who have a serious interest in organic farming, and their need for new knowledge and technology must guide research and development. Then I think we get a research that solves the agronomic bottlenecks, that makes production safer, and that provides a new and efficient technology adapted to organic production and environmental objectives. In a few years' time, I think we'll have success stories about organic farmers who don't work in the whole world, who don't work more than conventional farmers, who might earn a little more, who are proud of their production and their environmental management. These are the bottlenecks we also need to find, and new technologies that can ecologize the rest of the farm. So the market organizations and the market alignment. Yes, I've tried to play "Frazen Detective" many times, but I've rarely found anything, and if I find anything, it's expensive. So customers have to be able to find what they want. The eco-founders and producers lack the financial backbone of Coca-Colas, which allows them to run products cheaply in large volume and present them to the consumer. That's where, as a public authority, we have a responsibility to ensure that the products appear and are presented in a delicate and tempting way. That's how it happens. It's not without reason that many are placing millions and billions on the market. It's working. I – and SV – believe that the Committee has not fully understood the potential for eco-production and that they are once again attached to the prejudices about biodynamic production. There are 40 such farms in Norway today, and they do not increase in number. Nor does SV want the bet. The Committee also, I think, has some limited understanding that organic farming itself is actually more environmentally and resource-friendly. The minister says he believes in more regional anchoring, and we think that's right. Money is now being allocated to pilot projects. For example, the Minister of Agriculture has given money to the BioInn Foundation, which is responsible for creating a pilot project for Hedmark and Uppland, where organic farmers and industry will join the trade unions and develop modern consumer-oriented organic farming in the country. We support this. But we believe that a big message is necessary because we need to clarify what kind of organic farming we want to develop in order to manage research, grant schemes, information and organisational support, so that we get good effect out of resource use. Investing in modern, consumer-oriented, organic farming is the best strategy for achieving the target of 10 pst. organic food production in 2010. It is also the best strategy to ecologize conventional agriculture, but then we have to have a better plan than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e855	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e858	In my opinion, when we dealt with the Norwegian agricultural gross domestic product, an ambitious but correct target of 10 pst was formulated. of the total agricultural area shall be organically farmed by 2010. It is necessary to focus on and facilitate the increased prevalence of organic production in Norway at all times. Otherwise, my claim is that traditional agriculture in Norway operates in an almost ecologically good way, where fertiliser plans, spraying plans, prices, attitudes, course and information activities help to limit unnecessary use of chemicals and fertilizers. In our country, we use versatile productions, we have a spread of livestock production that also reduces the risk of spread of infection, while the exploitation of the land might have been better. That's an important ecological advantage. The ecological objective is important, but it is also important to think in general ecological thought paths in traditional agriculture, together with pure organic production. France is often shown as an example of the processing of agricultural products. Throughout the post-war period, France has deliberately built up a small-scale process, among other things. through market organisations and legislation favouring small-scale farming, while price and volume have been the focus in Norway at the same time. In France, niche production is 7 pst. of French agricultural production, total 50 pst. the value of agricultural products. In Norway, niche production is 5 pst. of agricultural production. That percentage will increase the Government with the Council of State as a positive driver and with the bulk of population in the back through various food production value schemes. I mean to see great opportunities for Norwegian agriculture, while having the necessary realism. Norway is a country with a population of 200 miles and a population of 4-5 million. residents. In France, there are 60 million. residents. There's a distance from the north to the south of 60 miles, and only within an hour's travel time around Paris it lives 12 million. residents. It is clear that there are completely different opportunities for niche production, supply distribution channels and have a necessary volume both in terms of production and in terms of population, which makes this work in a good way. But even though we're not so many, and even though we're a long-range country, it's important to move towards organic agricultural production. In that process, we must also be willing to accept that there may be an imbalance between supply and demand for periods, and we should be actively supporting it through subsidisation over a period of time. My impression is that we have a management, a research environment, a guidance system and organisations that work specifically in this context. In my opinion, the strategy has been implemented through previous treatments, including: in the case of grubbing-up notifications and in the case of agricultural settlements, and my claim is that attitudes are also present, including: through value creation programmes and various individual actions undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e873	Representatives Karin Andersen, Ågot Valle and Hallgeir H. Langeland have in Document No. 8:65 for 2000-2001 proposed the drawing up of a monitoring report on organic farming. The representatives point out that there is a need for a strengthened and coordinated response to the agreed target of 10 p.m. of the total agricultural area shall be organically farmed by 2010. According to estimates from the FAO Food and Agriculture Organisation, the consumption of organic food in Europe will grow very rapidly in the coming years. In 1997, organic food was sold in the EU for about 10 years. $40 billion. In 2005, the volume is estimated to be between 200 and 240 billion kroner. The major markets for organic food in Europe are today Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark and France, of which – and perhaps not unnaturally – the United Kingdom is the fastest growing. The interest in organic food is also growing among Norwegian consumers, and it is important that Norwegian agriculture can meet the demand for such products. Organic farming is also an important part of our work to make the whole of Norwegian agriculture more environmentally friendly. I am therefore very concerned that we are going to achieve the target of 10 pst. organic agricultural area. Today, ecologically driven area amounts to 2 pst. of total agricultural area. We are now working on measures along the whole value chain to achieve the 10 pst. goal. Strategies and action plans for organic farming have been developed during 1999 and 2000 in key areas such as research and market development. Both bottlenecks and possibilities for further development have been analysed in these plans and the necessary measures have been identified. Furthermore, the subsidy schemes targeted at organic producers have been evaluated. The evaluation concludes that the grant schemes now have an appropriate device. Studies have also been developed to address specific challenges, such as: production of organic cereals and seed material. During the spring and autumn, we will carry out research and dialogue with, among others: market actors focus on developing more knowledge of consumer preferences in the field of organic food. As I see it, we have a relatively good overview of what grip it is necessary to do in the future to achieve the goal of 10 pst. ecological area by 2010. In my view, concrete action and action are now needed to bring progress forward, and I therefore see it as not appropriate that we now spend a great deal of time and effort preparing our own big message on organic farming. However, I agree that it is most necessary to increase efforts related to the development of organic farming in Norway. Therefore, during the course of the year’s agricultural settlement, the State has committed itself to doubling the investment in organic farming. I have, of course, noted the Committee's wish to report back to the Storting on developments in this area in the context of St.prp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e894	When the Council of State mentions the offer of agriculture and the positive nature of organic farming, it is also important to mention the negative side, namely that the increase is financed by a slight reduction in the ability to drive versatile. It's not a very good trade. But that's not what I'm going to do. I want to address the ecological profile of Norwegian food production, where outland plays a very central role, especially for food production in sheep and reindeer. In northern areas, there is a special, large, outreach resource, but also large, specific tasks related to the management of the land, including: how to produce food on this resource and how to present it. That's a bit of the background to the proposal that came up in the Inst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000 for St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, in addition to the need for, inter alia, developing a good clover – at all levels enhancing the competence of nature management in the northern regions. At that time, there was a proposal to study at the University of Tromsø. I really only have one specific question to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do with the comment that came from the Committee last year, and the one that comes in connection with this position: ‘The Committee asks the Government to assess the feasibility of launching this study at the University of Tromsø from the autumn of 2001.’ I have also mentioned that this is practicable to implement. It's a cost question. I would like to hear what the Council of State has intended to do in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e908	I have to take that comment seriously and do what the Committee asks for, namely to have an assessment of the issue carried out. Of course, I have noticed this and will address it with the Minister of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e913	In some areas, I perceive that there is disagreement between the SV and the majority of the minister. The questions are: do we know enough about organic farming today? And have we decided what kind of organic farming we want to develop? I had in my post a description of what organic farming SV wanted to develop, namely the modern organic farming. I did not bring the setting, but there is a description of it there. Does the Minister share the view that it needs to be developed along those lines? Some of the SV's concern is that we do not find this expressed with sufficient weight neither in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 or in the proposal for an action plan on organic farming. You've kind of thought that organic farming is fully developed, so now you're just going to blow up the volume. SV disagrees with that, and we also believe that investing along such a line will make it more difficult to ecologize conventional agriculture, because it requires the modernisation and development of organic farming far more than today. I could imagine getting the Council of State's assessment of it. Secondly, with regard to market organisations and pricing, there is unanimity in the Committee that additional prices should be added to the market, and then we can discuss how much of this is to be taken out. Is it possible for the Council of State to put in more and more powerful instruments so that, during a transitional period, more products can be produced at a fairer price, so that the volume can be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e930	Yes, I am very much in agreement with what Andersen describes as the need for what kind of organic farming we should now focus on first and foremost. It's getting more rational productions, so we get a larger volume that can come out on the market and fill the market needs that I'm reasonably sure are there. I'm perhaps a little surprised at how strongly Andersen's representative places emphasis on modern, rational production, because I don't think it should exclude that in the future we will also have a variety of uses in organic agricultural production. We will also have many small uses in the future that operate organically and that produce products in the non-store market, or you could say the large customer groups, but special products, where consumers are willing to pay a high price. One must not exclude the other. I believe that Andersen's representative is at a core when she talks about the need to stimulate the production of products from the manufacturer to the consumer. This is precisely what is a key element of the measures proposed by the State in its offer in the year’s agricultural settlement, namely that we should now also enter and stimulate – as it were – the way from the producer to the consumer in order to speed up sales. It is totally unacceptable to, for example, only 10 pst. organic beef today is presented to consumers as organic beef. 90 pst. So it's going into conventional production. We can't live with that! That's why this is one of the points that we now need to actually build up systems to avoid in the future. I think we now have a grip on this, which is going to make sure that it will happen quite a lot in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e937	Several have not asked for the floor for a reply, and others have not asked for the floor for a point. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2949]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e951	This setting has not been out of range for the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e958	The EU eContent programme is a continuation of two previous EU programmes in Norway. It is important for Norway to follow-up with further participation in this new programme. The Economic and Social Committee therefore unanimously supports this programme. The programme is over four years old and costs Norway about 30 million in total. Total kr. About half will join the administration and follow-up, while the other half will join the very creative part of the program. The aim is, of course, that the administrative part of such programmes must be as small as possible and that as much as possible the businesses in the programme benefit. eContent aims to promote linguistic diversity within the EU and the EEA territory. The merger of the telecommunications, data and media sectors opens up new and wide opportunities for product development on the service side and the content side. Here are the new and exciting challenges for creative programme creators and content producers. Both general training, dissemination of Norwegian cultural heritage and linguistic diversity can be provided with a new opportunity for dissemination and profiling through the eContent programme. What this could mean in the future for Norwegian business, Norwegian travel or Norwegian public sectors is not given today. However, what we say by participating in this programme is that we will be involved in an exciting development in cooperation with others in Europe. What one must hope for is that Norwegian enterprises and individuals who focus on the content of both old and new media are now given an additional opportunity to develop through the eContent programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e971	Information technology is getting ever better footholds in western industrial nations. Norway has also advanced in development and is at the top of the world in terms of the number of Internet users in relation to population. In the future, content and content providers will have a crucial role to play in the economy and in the development of both the information and welfare society. Broadband expansion and this with convergence developments will also open up entirely new opportunities in relation to both product and service developments on the content side. We're going to have to exploit this. In fact, content will be the critical factor that can make broadband bets more valuable. The demand for Norwegian content has been identified by many business actors as the main driver of broadband development. If the broadband network, with its enormous capacity, is not just going to be a faster way to get American TV series on, we actually have to bet on Norwegian content. We have therefore seen it as very important that Norway be part of the four-year EU programme precisely in order to be able to participate and maintain our own but also Europe's linguistic and cultural diversity. But here it also lies in the fact that the whole purpose is to help small and medium-sized enterprises. We must then see this as an extension of our entire tool here at home, which is now also being discussed, and must strengthen the access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we can facilitate the transition to the public information vis-à-vis the network for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e980	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2949]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e993	It shall then be put to the vote on the case No. 2-7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e1081	During the debate Randi Karlstrøm put forward a proposal on behalf of Morten Lund, Leif Helge Kongshaug and himself. In the course of the debate, as far as the President has been concerned, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is recommended to draw up guidelines for the ad hoc aid in order to provide support to all legally reintroducing persons regardless of whether they have not complied with the slaughter requirements of the reintroduction agreement in their respective years.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e1279	Here the President assumes that the Progress Party and possibly some others also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-10.ana.ud74e1410	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own forecast of increased investment in organic farming.’
