ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e42	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Anita Apelthun Seele, Ivar Kristiansen, Odd Eriksen, Tomas Norvoll and Synnove Konglevoll, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Morten Olsen, has taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the Nordland County, Arvid Falch, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinget from 21 May until further notice, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternate for Nordland, Karl N. Meløysund, is hereby invited to meet under the leave of the representative Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e88	Karl N. Meløysund is present and will take his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunnar Schaug on Monday 21 May in connection with participation in the 17th May marking in Chicago, USA, under the direction of the Norwegian National Confederation of the Workers' Party on sick leave of the representative Frank Willy Larsen from 21 May onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave:For the district of Buskerud: Gerd JohnsenFor the county of Østfold: Wenja E. Rings
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e123	Wenja E. The ring is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e128	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e133	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e138	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e147	The representative of Vidar Kleppe will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e150	I have the honour and pleasure to promote two private proposals. The first proposal is from myself and is that the Storting asks the Government to set aside funds to complete the construction of Skjold-class MTBs as planned, as a pilot project outside the ordinary budgetary framework. Then I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Jørn L. Stag and myself, that the minimum rate for old-age pensioners and beneficiaries of disability pension from popular security, applicable from 1 May 2001, should be at least 1 – 150 305 kroner per salary. 1 May 2000 – in the national wage regulation, with annual indexation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e159	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and take the case no. 1 up to voting at the end of the debate and that there will be a total vote on the matter No. 2 to 4 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objections have been raised to this proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e177	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e186	Today we are discussing a major reform of the reorganisation of Police Norway. The aim of the reform is to achieve a more effective fight against crime. And if we're to do that, we should have bigger districts. We should also give greater responsibility to the police department in each district. We need a police officer with authority to change and with authority to adapt his district structure to local conditions. Today, we have a new type of crime that is emerging in all our districts. In the case of organised crime, in the case of moral crime, and in the case of forms of crime where it is important to have specific competences that each small district does not have the capacity to have itself. These include: That's why we have Kripos, so that we can help smaller districts. With this reform, the aim is for more districts to have a resource and competence to be able to investigate new and serious forms of crime themselves. This does not mean that we renounce the decentralized local police force, the local police who are in contact with the local population and who are primarily responsible for meeting the needs of the local population. But we get to this by localizing the police management to the place where it's the highest population density, where it's the greatest crime, i.e. based on objective criteria, while keeping the decentralised network, but where the resources can be coordinated over larger areas. Why have we had this reform? Well, we've had quite a movement in the post-war period. We also know that cities' share of crime is increasing. It is not unnatural when an increasing proportion of the population is located in cities. We also know that the new type of criminal is not necessarily the locally anchored criminal known to local police. Criminals are moving across county and municipal borders, just as they do across national borders, and it is important to be able to coordinate efforts across larger areas. What we're doing with this reform is we're going to let the police Norway move after the popular movement that's happened in the last 50 years. We're also trying to let this police reform take on board that we've got new patterns of transport, new commuting patterns in working life and new travel patterns in cultural life, where people go out in the evening, outlived. Before that, the fjord was a natural communication point between two cities. Now the fjord has become a dividing line, and that is why the new police district becomes natural, just because the youth is going to a party even after midnight. Twenty-three, and then the last ferry has gone. We have 54 districts today, and there's a big difference in competence between the different districts, there's a big difference in size. What we're doing now gives more resource-equality districts. The largest regions also have the largest police districts, and then it is natural for the South, which is a large region of population, to have a police district that is the size of the police districts of Rogaland, Sør-Trøndelag, Østfold and Vestfold. The new merged area is now among the seven largest districts, which are naturally based on population. The Committee would point out that much of police expenditure is tied to fixed costs — running, renting, pay. That's what's left after the fixed costs have been paid, the variable budget, one can commit to fighting crime when something special happens. And the less the district is, the less is the pot with variable budgets that you can put in place against crime. The bigger the district, the bigger the pot for variable funds, which also gives greater opportunities to move the money to something extraordinary, whether it's a grotesque murder, a flowering of organized crime or other things. It makes sense that the Eiker bilgeman does not have enough capacity alone to make a summer meeting for the MC criminals. He has to cooperate with the Drammen, he has to cooperate with the surrounding police districts. What we're doing now is also organizing Police Norway so that when such events occur, most districts will be able to manage it resourcefully themselves. The best leaders must have the opportunity to apply. If this reform is to have the effect we want, it will require a lot of the new 27 police officers. That is why it has been so important for the Committee to say that the constituent police officers also need to apply for the posts. The ministry suggested that only the convicts should be able to search. But what would happen then? Yes, that would include, among other things, it has happened that, for example: a police officer who is today in competition with many of the fastings would be set aside by one of the fasts that he actually struck out in the previous round. It doesn't give us the best leaders, so it doesn't give us the best effect of the reform. But in order to achieve this, it is assumed that the Police Directorate is given extensive powers to make good individual solutions for each of the 27 police officers who in the future are not going to have their old position. Here we can afford to be generous, and here we don't want to rely on standard models, but on individual desires, individual knowledge and competence. We're still going to have a decentralised structure. We explicitly say that the police should be located at least as many places as today, and the police lawyers should be present where the cases are produced. It makes the fear of what I call no. The 2 cities, in order for all the policing to disappear when the police chief disappears, will not be real. The police lawyers shall be left. The environment under investigation and prosecution in each district shall remain where crime is produced. But that doesn't mean we're going to have the exact same model as today. A police officer must have the authority to assess the location of a holding and the location of a place of employment. The goal must be for fewer units to operate with administration – kick the administration up and get more people and more resources available down the system, to help the public. Many people have been worried that the remains of the guards are disappearing, and that we only get one watchtower per week. district. Here the committee says that one does not want a standard model. Here the actual needs shall be assessed, the number of arrests and hours when driving at night, which will be the option if you have too little arrest capacity. At the same time, we say that the most important thing for the audience is the response time, how long it takes to get help, not exactly what local help comes from. Here, the impact of the reform needs to be verified, and individual masters are responsible for providing a good supply tailored to their local needs. The integrated appeal has broad support, from all except the Advance Party. The reason for that is simple. As they said, at the county office in Surnadal: The lawyer you see regularly deals with your case more quickly. It is not as easy to put your case at the bottom of the drawer. We believe that people who are seen regularly, who work together, are also interested in minimal sleep time for matters and in getting them away. This has given results, and most places around in Police Norway this works very well. A broad majority of the Committee is in favour of 27 police districts. Here there is a marked distinction between the majority of the Committee on the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party on the one hand and the Centre on the other, who want 10 more police districts. There are also some other changes to the message, and they are summarised under Chapter 7 on page 25 of the setting. The first thing I've already said is that we're in favour of one Agder police district, in line with what's natural in terms of the size of South Africa and the need for roughly the same size in the largest police districts. In addition, Haugaland becomes police districts larger than what was the basis of the notification. Both Stord, Fitjar and Bømlo are added together with Haugaland, who gets the new name Haugaland and Sunnhordland police district. Here, too, several of the parties – and enough for it to become the setting – also want the municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden to be merged with the new Haugaland, for there are trade connections, commuter connections, and PEL both in South Hardanger and in Haugesund have wanted it. But this case goes to vote in the hall, and here there's a very large minority, so it can have a decisive influence on what's actually being adopted. The municipality of Karasjok is added to the East-Finland police district, in line with the input from the police organisations. In the case of Halden Police District, the Committee says that it is so important to take care of the border competence of the Halden Police Chamber that even if it is merged with Eastfold, with district management in Sarpsborg, the border municipalities of Marker and Rømskog are kept together with Halden. The police lawyers with border criminal competence remain in Halden, and we also ensure these by allowing Halden to retain his court, so that the entire professional environment in Halden becomes intact. One man stays away, the chief of police, but the rest – and enough to take care of border crime – remains. Hedmark is kept together, and Kongswinger is not divided into two, as proposed in the notification, and also here is the local input and consideration of the cross-border crime that has been decisive for the majority. Stjørdal and Meråker are added to the Nord-Trøndelag police districts, and the ministry is empowered to organise Uppland and Buskerud as it seems most appropriate after an overall assessment, including this. because the Joint Association of Police recommends one district in each of these counties, and the Kongsberg Police District says that if Kongsberg and Drammen merge, their desire is primarily a collective Busherud. In this case, the Committee did not need to amend the recommendation in the notification, but merely give a mandate to the Ministry. Then the Right Party and the Central Party, in line with the League of Police and the State Attorney in Northernland, felt that Rana should have police district management over the Lake of Mosque. This has not had a majority in the committee, so the vote on the Sea of Messa is permanent. However, I note that there has been a proposal from the SV on localisation to Mo in Rana, and it is logical that the Right then submit support for that proposal once it has been promoted. There are two themes that have been put to the vote by the Committee. One is the location of the district management in Sogn and Fjordane to Florø, and the other is what I've been up to, making Great Hague even bigger by taking the municipalities south of Hardangerfjord in Hardanger. In the case of Florø, Florø is recommended on the basis of PF police recommendations and on the basis of the fact that the Florø-Førde axis also has a population centre of gravity and the main crime challenges. The Labour Party has an alternative proposal on Sogndal here, and it will be put up for alternative voting. With regard to the second theme, namely these municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden, alternative voting will also be provided between what is the setting, that these municipalities are merged with Haugaland, and what is the Workers' Party's proposal, that this should not be decided now but be delegated to the Ministry. I would like to make a final remark that never has so many letters, ‘mails’, telephones and enquiries come to the Justice Committee. Saying that we've been downgraded is no exaggeration. We put Easter as a deadline for recording, and after that we've tried to dig ourselves down to work. It's very understandable that not everyone is satisfied when we halve the number of districts and someone loses their police district management. Especially tough is it for those cities that have been nearly as big as the city that has been managed. Nevertheless, we have tried to create the fairest possible system based on objective criteria, population density, regional centre of gravity, etc. And to all those who haven't come up to us in the last few days, I'd say that their recordings have at least come out through an abundance of channels. Finally, I also see a proposal from the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, which in its content is identical to the committee's position that the municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden should be located with Haugaland. I therefore think that the most natural thing was that this proposal was drawn, since it contains exactly the same content as the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e239	As members of the Judicial Committee during this period, we have been involved in debate and influence the future organisation and delivery of the most important sectors in the field of justice. It's been exciting. We have laid the foundation for the activities of criminal justice, and today Stortinget is laying the preliminary cornerstone for the organisation of police and judicial structures. In all areas, there have been questions about how the various departments can better manage their tasks for both the public and society as a whole. In this case, it concerns the police and officers' seat. The main objective is to obtain a body that more effectively prevents and combats crime, which is more service-oriented and public-oriented, and which makes the best use of resources. Before I go further, I would like to underline an important point that was also made in the statements made by the President-in-Office. Policies often consist of pure-breding contradictions. But in this case, I would like to point out the broad consensus among the parties. It is in itself important to lay the groundwork for police activity for many years to come – an agency that has a great impact on people’s security. The need for change and organisational changes in the police and lumbar seat has its backbone in the significant changes in society that have taken place. I will briefly mention crime trends, demographic changes, internationalisation, increased opportunities for communication and mobility and public service requirements. Fewer and larger police districts combine the desire to get more powerful units to combat crime and allow resource release to more operational activities and public-oriented service. These include both organisational changes and the division of tasks, competences, management and personnel policy. The effectiveness of the police has been very much linked to the length of proceedings and the percentage of clarification. Of course, we want improvements in these areas, and the potential is there, for example. in the form of improved and closer cooperation between different personnel groups through integrated prosecution and the development of forward-looking prosecution functions. We also look forward to the follow-up by the Government to investigations into more rapid criminal proceedings. But we also want to develop more criteria for successful police work. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the crime prevention work that the police have to take part in and pay great attention to, in cooperation with families, kindergartens, schools and other public institutions. It must be important to prevent criminal activity, not least among children and young people. The Labour Party believes that we should still have a decentralised police force, a police force in the community that is accessible to the public. The number of service locations must be maintained. Yes, it is positive if one gets more places of employment or for example. police posts at locations other than today. However, better coordination can be achieved with regard to administrative tasks, either between holdings at regional level or within the administrative staff of the district. In coordination, we must avoid building new levels in the establishment. The point is to release human resources for operational activities and service and service tasks aimed at the public. In terms of staff policy, operational services must also be evaluated in relation to career opportunities and pay conditions. The implementation of police reform 2000 must ensure a greater degree of responsibility and competence for district management and services. I therefore agree with the development of governance in relation to overall objectives and frameworks, and less resource allocation and operational priorities. It must be within the decentralised management responsibility to make the best possible use of resources and to find the most appropriate organisation of police services in relation to the tasks, but within, inter alia, the tasks. premises for at least the same number of places of employment. The actual needs and consideration of the public must be central. The proposals for new police districts and the location of the police officer have aroused great interest in the country around them. Here I would like to reiterate the justification for larger police districts, namely that one should ensure more in operational service, greater professional scope and competence and greater resource freedom. The Committee stresses that the location of the police officer shall not in itself affect police-operative public services. Looking at the whole thing, I'm glad that the government has come to agreement with most of its proposals. A police district less and some border adjustments were changes one could expect. In addition, there are two unexplained points to be taken into consideration here in the Chamber. Let me briefly comment on these. In the elections between Sogndal and Florø as the place for the police district management in Sogn and Fjordane, I believe there is no black and white solution. Those are arguments for both places. I'm sure whatever the result, it'll be a good result, and whatever the result, it'll give people a better police service. In our proposal that district management be added to Sogndal, we have among other things. emphasised on closeness to the courts and prisons, economic considerations regarding the basis of new premises, geographical location in relation to the holdings and the location of county authorities. With regard to the second proposal on police district access for the municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden, we believe that the ministry should assess this in consultation with these municipalities. The question was not specifically considered in the big news, and recordings from one hearing body believe that we are too thin a basis for transferring these municipalities to Haugaland police districts here and now. I would also like to clarify the Labour Party's position on the police division in Uppland and Buskerud. A majority of the committee, with our support, has given the ministry the power to choose the most appropriate organisation for these two counties. From the point of view of the Workers' Party, the Government's proposals are obviously the most appropriate. It is therefore the Government’s proposal for two districts in both Uppland and Buskerud that must be implemented. That's our signal to the Government. In the uppland video, one can also see the problem of defining what police professional criteria are. The police commonwealth believes one thing, the Lensman team and the policemen. What is police evaluation? The Workers' Party believes it is right to merge the police's data service and the police's material service, provisionally with a common management, but located to two places, Oslo and Gran, respectively. We assume that joint management is located in Gran and believe that these are arguments and good assumptions for Gran as a place for the possible co-location of the data and material service. The government proposed in the big news that responsibility for the border between Norway and Russia should be transferred from the border commissioner to the police chief. To this extent, policy developments can provide for civil border liability in line with other border areas. However, we share the Ministry of Defence's views that the current regime should be continued until further notice and that any changes need to be made more thoroughly after evaluation of existing border liability. The implementation of the reorganisation of the Police and Linguistic Seat will require the involvement and interaction of employees and their organisations. Police officers for the new police districts will have an important management responsibility for the implementation of the process of conversion and change. It is therefore essential that one gets the most qualified in these positions. We therefore want as broad a candidate base as possible and that it is not limited to those currently employed. This must, however, be done within the framework of statutory and contractual works. At the same time, the Ministry and the Police Directorate must have an offensive and positive attitude towards all those who change their working situation. Attention needs to be paid to custom-made solutions. A primary objective of the police reform is the transfer of savings of human resources to operational and public services. Some hearing bodies consider the estimated savings of 400 to 450 annual works to be uncertain. I believe that the ministry as best it can at the moment has provided the basis for this estimate and that it will be an important measure of successful reform. I am therefore challenging everyone implicating to contribute to ensuring efficiency gains from the reform. There will certainly be discussions about conversion costs in addition to what has been estimated in the message. We have here as our starting point that the Government should identify conversion costs and funding in the annual budgets for the implementation of the reform. We assume that the switchover does not lead to a reduction in the level of activity in the police, but also has no objection that savings in operating costs due to the reform can actually be made to cover other costs associated with the follow-up to the changes. Police reform 2000 has been an important and necessary review of the police and officers' seat for organisational improvements and preparation of task solutions. I hope the results will fulfill the intention of a better police service for the public, and a police force that can more effectively prevent and combat crime in order to create a safer society for most people. With this, I take up the Workers' Party's minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e290	Sir. Bjørnstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e293	When we reform the police, an essential part of the objective must be to strengthen people's confidence in the police. With confidence, respect follows, and with respect, acceptance follows. But even simple objectives can have wide - open and diverse premises. A striking and central premise of police reform 2000 is reorganisation and simplification. But the point of the reform is therefore an audience-oriented police force with enhanced competence and better resource allocation. The Christian People's Party does not support the attitude expressed by the Labour Party and the right parties that the greater a police district, the better it will work. On the other hand, we support the idea behind the proposal to the Police District Committee. It concluded that if we were to set up a police directorate, the future division between 37 and 38 police districts would be beneficial. If the police were to continue to be detailed by the department, the number should be further reduced. Despite the fact that we have established the Police Directorate, the Government chooses to completely disregard the recommendations of the Police District Committee and make proposals in 28 districts. And as if that's not enough, the government's party gets pushed by the Right to further reduce the number by merging East Agder and West Agder into one police district – a police district that includes nine cities, in fact ten, because Lggal also has city status. In addition, it is a densely populated coast which corresponds to the extent of the distance from Arendal to Drammen. But something should be given to those who helped the Workers' Party back to the government offices, and then it is understandable that the Right gets its will to make East-Agder the only state without a police officer. Of course, it is important for us politicians to listen to professional advice and guidance before making decisions that are important to many. There are also other factors that need to be taken into account in the assessments. For the Christian People's Party, the border and the coast are two essential areas of action that require particular competence and attention. That's the sum of these professional and principal assessments that make us have landed in 37 police districts in our remarks in the position. We have also, in some individual opinions from the police, become familiar with the real background of the statements before we confirm our final position. This is what we believe to have carried out a serious and thorough treatment of police reform in 2000. Before I continue to comment on some single districts, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party supports the intentions of the 2000 Police Reform. We believe it is important to point it out, because it is necessary for the police to know and understand that they from Stortinget have broad support in their work. But the police also need to know that the Storting expects results for the investments that have been made and that will be made. In this context, it is important, as the Committee points out, that other measurement parameters for police work are also developed in addition to the time of proceedings and the percentage of clarification. This may, for example: include response time, referrals, the impact of prevention through the development of child and youth crime, drug development, etc., or other criteria that can be developed in cooperation with police organisations. We have mentioned this in a joint opinion of the Committee and believe that this is important. It is also important, as agreed in the Committee, and as not provided for by the Government, that the candidate base for the new policing positions should be as broad as possible. But, of course, we also support what the representative Bjørnstad said, namely that we have to stay within the law in relation to this. It is a responsibility of course for those who are going to follow this up. I really want to go into the individual police districts in the last five minutes. So the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, has joined forces to increase the number of police districts compared to what the Government has proposed. It's about us, for example. in Eastfold, the need to take care of the competences that lie there is precisely in relation to all the kilometres of the boundary for which the current police chamber is responsible. The majority of the Committee also considers that it is important to maintain the competence of this police district. today. I see no reason to remove the police district, when at the same time you say that you have to maintain your competence and warn against having to move. It can only mean that the majority is afraid of the consequences of their own decision, and I understand that. We therefore propose in our note that Eastfold should be maintained as its own police district. Also in the case of Buskerud, we have from our side a somewhat different proposal for arronding than what is in the setting. But in general, we think that the right assessments have been made here. We want from our side that Kongsberg and the E134 axis across Notodden with the addition of Rjukan could be a natural police district. We believe that Telemark is setting up too large a district, far from the coast and the internal areas. We therefore want to maintain two police districts in Telemark. Then I have already mentioned that it is only the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that support the Government in its proposal for district division in the Agder counties. The Workers' Party's representatives are heading towards the Government here. We wish East-Agder maintained as his own police district with the tasks that it is natural for this district to have, which, of course, can certainly be managed elsewhere. But we're afraid that what I mentioned initially about the length of the coast and the number of cities would seem negative if you put the police districts together. We don't see any winnings here, and that's the winnings you've been after with this proposal. In the case of Rogaland and Hordaland, we have our primary positions. But we also say in a note that we subsidiaryly agree that the Workers' Party's remark in relation to the municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden is taken into account. We have, however, clearly left our representatives free to vote in the Chamber. The same goes for Sogn and Fjordane. Even in the elections between Sogndal and Florø, the representatives of the Christian People's Party are free to vote here today. We are primarily in favour of two police districts, one in Sogndal and one in Florø, and that is not an easy position, but it is a position based on the professional play that has come, along with the other assessments that I have previously pointed out are important for the Christian People's Party. Now I see that my time is running out, and that I can hardly get very far in terms of the police districts northward, but I expect that my colleague from Troms, Mr. Nymo, will comment on the rest of our suggestions. On behalf of the minority parties, I would like to address the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e321	Sir. Marthinsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President reminds us that it is the speaking time that was in that case clean, not Mr. Marthinsen’s Time [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e324	The Progress Party agrees with the main intention of the changes proposed in this Storing Communication. It is obvious that a reduction in the number of police districts through the removal of unnecessary administrative posts and a better alignment of police district borders with the current population structure, crime patterns, communication patterns and geography will lead to a more efficient use of police resources, so that we can better combat crime than before. However, I am skeptical of a few elements of the reform. Firstly, the government proposes that there should be one central arrest in each police district. Such centralisation could not be reasonable. This will lead to a great deal of unnecessary time going by driving arrestants around in a district. I have also noticed that the Joint Association of Police fears that this could lead to night-ridden stations. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has unanimously drawn the conclusion that it must be up to the individual police districts to find the appropriate organisation of watch residues on the basis of needs and not on the basis of standard models. Secondly, the government is proposing a system of so-called advanced charges. It means even closer cooperation between the prosecution authority and the police than today. I see, of course, that it can promote efficiency. At the same time, however, it increases the risk of serious errors – that the wrong person is targeted, accused or convicted in the worst cases – because the prosecutor’s representatives are wearing the same sky notes as the rest of the investigation team. A clear distinction between police and prosecution authorities is desirable, so that the prosecution authority's quality assurance of the police activity becomes effective. Today's model, where the prosecution authority is integrated into the police action, is, in my opinion, a risk to legal certainty. The control function of the Public Prosecutor’s Office may easily become illusory when the officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office are directly responsible for the investigation by the police. The inspector ports in a bow fit the oatmeal situation, and the result could be, in worst cases, the murder of the judiciary. We shouldn't take that risk. Efficiency must never go beyond quality. Questions can also be asked whether it is really so effective if the result is that the police are going too far on the wrong track. The prosecution authority should be brought together under the direction of the Advocate General and the police authority under the direction of the Police Director, and those authorities should be kept clearly separate. There has been a debate on the number of police districts. In its proposals, the Progress Party has essentially dealt with, and followed up, the proposals of the Joint Police Association. The same applies to the location of management functions in a district. I have recorded that the Joint Police Association believes that relatively few police districts, so that all districts get a certain minimum size, will lead to the most effective police service, also in those areas that now lose their chief of police and their administrative management functions. I agree. The crucial thing is how large the districts are and where the boundaries go. The importance of the location of the police officer and his administrative staff is likely to be much less significant than the noise level in some communities. In Rogaland, the Judicial Committee has unanimously made a reasonable adjustment to the Ministry’s proposals, saying that the municipalities of Stord, Fitjar and Bømlo will be included in Haugaland Police District. It's a win for reason. Both communication, population structure and crime patterns make such a solution a matter of course. Equally natural, it would be for the same reasons to place the municipalities south of Hardangerfjorden in Haugaland police districts, as recommended by the police organisations in North Rogaland and PEL in Hardanger, and as advocated by the Progress Party, the Right, the Center Party and the representative of Jørn Stang. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has put an end to such a solution in this round. The party is in a position to maintain the Hardanger police district as a primary point of reference. That's okay, but the Christian People's Party should be able to signal clearly a secondary position that these municipalities should be added to the chief of police in Haugesund. The Christian People's Party wants this to be further assessed by the Ministry in cooperation with the municipalities affected. Einar Steensnæs tells Haugesunds Avis that it is normal in such types of district policy assessments. The point is that this is not district policy, this is about how to promote rational boundaries for the police and get a rational police force. It is therefore regrettable that in this way the Christian People’s Party weakens the scope for effective crime control in Haugaland and Sunnhordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e350	The central government appointed in 1998 the Police District Committee, which presented its position No. The crime scene has changed dramatically in the last 15 years. Crimes are dominated by a significant overweight of profitability. The increase in violent crime has been flattened, the number of reports of moral crime is stable, while there is reason to note that drugs are the most increasing crime category. In recent years, a new type of crime has also been registered in Norway – trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration. A characteristic trend is the continuing increase in the number of persons in the 25-year-old population. The development of crime, in the view of the Centre Party, calls for the development of prevention, a more effective chain of criminal proceedings and a competent and resilient police and county council. When an assessor assesses whether the police and officers' seat is doing a good job, it is not enough to focus on the processing time and the percentage of clarification. The most important thing is to prevent crime, not least among children and young people. In the view of the Centre Party, the main challenge is to deploy resources and measures and develop methods to improve this part of police work. The centre party assumes that there is no pooling of police districts that will provide enough and easier access to more police officers in the street. Over the last few years, there has been a clear pre-requisite for an assessment of the division of police districts of the country, and there have also been a number of expressions in political documents. Such an assessment has also had a clear anchor in policy objectives, where an important objective is modern and efficient government. In the case of the Police and National Staff Councils, it is an objective to provide the best possible police service to the public within the framework of allocated resources. The central party is of the opinion that the Government’s proposal to reduce the number of police districts from 54 to 28 is far too dramatic, not least in the light of the strong professional and thorough review of the Structural Committee as late as 1999, where the conclusion became 37/38 police districts, subject to the establishment of a police directorate. The centre party will refer to the specific criminal policy challenges associated with the border and the coast. For the Central Party, there is an additional need to ensure the good breadth and coverage of the police districts of criminal policy competence. It amazes more than me that the Right Party has so uncritically and wholeheartedly supported the Government's proposal to reduce the number of police districts. The fact that the Progress Party has also voted in favour of the Government's proposal less surprises me. It's enough to notice how that party has winged and turned against the party's judiciary spokesman. I want to mention in this round the fate of Halden Police District. So the government tried to keep it down for reasonable reason. It comes after that the Justice Committee has visited Halden Police District both in the past and during this period and has been deeply impressed by the special expertise and experience of the Halden Police in combating border crime. The fact that the political leadership of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party have chosen to ignore these political arguments, which have also been raised in a factual way by police officers in Halden, is completely incomprehensible. That local politicians from Halden have argued for the same thing without being heard, less amazes me. After all, the leadership of these parties is not exactly known for listening to or, to put it another way, following proposals from the grassroots in the parties. So these parties, which make up the majority, will drop Halden Police District. They're trying to sue this bitter fact by putting in some leads that the unique competence of the police in Halden will remain in Halden, and that it's kind of going to be a guarantee good enough for the future. Then my question becomes to these parties: why not remove all the uncertainty around the world by participating and deciding that Halden Police District should be maintained? It would eliminate any doubt that a police officer located outside Halden would give a different priority to the special service of border control than a police officer located in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e373	There is a clear need to reorganise many areas of society, not only the police — but today it is the police — that more people have been involved in this debate, including the rapporteurs and spokespersons of other parties. And this is not really a disagreement between those that make up the majority and the minority today. The question is how many units and how many units to reorganize. Let me say it right away: SV will primarily support the center's suggestions in the setting. There are 37 and not 27 police districts, but there is still a significant reduction from today's 54. That means that the whole Biggest is in favour of a certain reorganization. But we believe that the model that the centre parties have set up is the structure that will take more account of the different considerations to be taken into account, including in the case of local anchoring. Police have been one of the areas of society that have gained significant increases in resources in recent years. And in Stortinget, in several crossroads, SV has also helped to increase the appropriations for the police and has overruled the sitting government. However, it is also time to make some demands that the increased resources lead to more efficient use and that results become clearer. From the SV's point of view, we would like to stress one thing that has so far been little progress in the debate, and that is that no matter how effective the police had to be when it comes to intruding villains and combating international crime, the most important police can actually help, the prevention work. That's what comes very easily into the forgetbook and far back, because it's so hard to count. It is extremely difficult to count how many young people ‘waffle police’ – I have heard it as a bit of a pious term – are able to prevent being recruited to criminal environments. But that's what can make sure that the police get less to do in the future, and no more. And then you have to have a police force that is able to cooperate locally in the neighbourhoods with schools and with all kinds of volunteer work going on among children and young people, where the police are visible and know the young people and the environments that actually exist. After all, we have very good results where the neighbourhoods and the various good forces in the neighbourhood have been able to put in place joint efforts, both in the fight against neo-Nazi environments and youth recriminalism. I don't think it can be stressed strongly enough how important this part of the police's work is in fact. If we don't manage to prioritize this, the police will work their whole lives forever. This means that it is not only useful to come up with pious desires in connection with such reorganisation, it also means that if one is to be able to do the prevention work properly, it must be a career path in itself to be in the police first line service. It's too many driven policemen as per. Today only has one career path, and it is getting behind the desktop as soon as possible. All negotiations and career paths should focus on the need for skills and experience in the first-line service. And especially in the big cities, we know that there are many young people, and a lot of things can be said about young policemen. The testosterone level may be slightly higher than that of others. I think that experienced policemen, and the mix of experienced and peaches, could have made one perhaps both manage the specific situations out of place more wisely, and that one also had a knowledge of the community that made it possible to actually see differences in youth. Many young people from ethnic minorities feel that they are stopped because of skin color and background. It is clear that a knowledge among the police that allowed you to see the difference had made the trust between some youth environments and the police much stronger. That's why you should work to get more police officers, more police posts and more local anchoring. In the final analysis, as far as SV's voting is concerned, I would like to comment on Inge Myrvoll's proposal, which is distributed in places, and which is located in Mo in Rana in front of the lake. Otherwise, SV will vote primarily for the proposals of the centre parties, and subsidized for the decision II of the vote, i.e. to localise the police district management in Sogn and Fjordane to the municipality of Flora, and for proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party in preference to Decision III of the suspension, which concerns future police districts in the municipality of Hardanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e388	The President has registered that Kristin Halvorsen has raised proposal No. 8, from SV, and have also noticed the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e392	Police reform is necessary. It was naturally followed by the Lande Hasle Committee and by the submission of the Bondevik Government and the broad agreement reached at Stortinget on a police directorate. When the Left is standing with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, otherwise also after a discussion with these parties on its own, that the number of police districts should not be reduced so far, it is because we regard the police districts as centres of competence in the fight against crime, and because we have to take the crime scene along the border and along the coast in a better way than the Government has set up. With the majority you now have, you can risk not getting a police district centre between Ålesund and Bodø. It's a long coast, and it's a coast that's tempting for crime. In the same way, it is incredible to me that the committee starts with the wise grip to do Halden almost right by giving them a filth pen because they are death-effective and combat border crime, but then stops in the middle of the sweat and doesn't take Halden police districts. To me, it's totally incomprehensible, because we're facing a part of the country where there's really high productivity competence in fighting crime, and where the local population of those degrees is integrated into it. I have therefore also said something about the need for reform and the number. But I have a note: I don't think it's this aggregation of units that brings policemen into the street. If you want policemen out in the street for hundreds, you have to create credible career paths, with the status, pay and career that make the foot soldier and the front soldier, whether they're men or women, feel attracted to this. In the city we're in now, police officers are in the public service for an average of five years, and then they either go home or move into an office. And if they'd been standing for two more years, they'd have maintained their skills. So you could say that if the police are sitting with arresting officers and driving across Norway, they're out among people. But I assume that's not what's meant. We have to have career paths that give status to this. As regards the measurement criteria outlined, it is clear that the need to clarify criminal matters is important. But there are two relationships that are not measured that way. One relationship is that of preventing young people from falling into crime. It is not measured quickly on a statistical basis per. years. The other relationship is what's involved in taking the backers into organized crime. Then you often have to pick out a crowd of skilled policemen and say, "Go and take them, and take the time you need to solve it!" You can't do it in a year's statistics. You probably have to, to find those who are behind drug smuggling and money laundering, give the police peace and budgets to hold for a while. I announce that the Left will come back to it in the context of the revised national budget. With regard to the details of the committee position that I will mention before I go into the districts, we will point out, for our part, from the left, that one should be careful to resolve the printing police as a unit to combat traffic death. I know that there is a break in the organizational form and thinking in many places in the police, but producing a result against traffic death is important. I see that the department here is careful. The Committee is simply asking for a review to be carried out, but I think it should be very careful not to weaken a device that combats traffic death. I also note that, unlike the Ministry, the Committee is firmly committed to the position that is now being taken by the Border Commissioner, and that is a position such as the Left. With regard to the places left, more of them, and which are located partly from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party, partly from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang, and partly from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, it is justified by the thought that I call the coast and the border. I'm not going to go into coastal thinking in any other way than to say that we have to assume that drug trafficking in Norway will increase along a long coastline. We know that our limit is also vulnerable. I have a philosophy, and it's that if the chief is too far away from the Indians, there will eventually be no Indians left. And my reasoning, among other things, to drive Halden as hard as I've done in this post, is that chiefs who are close to Indians produce good results. People who retreat tend to be disturbed in their everyday lives by something else. It may be okay in many parts of the country, but it's not okay when you're in sensitive areas of criminal policy, so it's just important that the command is right where the foot soldiers are, so that you know each other and know what you're talking about. When it comes to the majority's attempt to merge the two counties, we follow the Central Party and the Christian People's Party here. We are voting in favour of Flora from the referral of 18 of the 26 rapporteurs in Sogn and Fjordane and the political justification. We're also voting that Mo i Rana is the right place to sit on Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e409	With a glance across the hall, the president can understand, sir. Use of the words ‘Indians’ and ‘Captains’ by the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e412	Police reform 2000 announces major changes to the police and officers’ seats. The objectives of the reform will be demanding but exciting to achieve. A successful result will require effort and participation, not least from all employees in the establishment. In view of the great expectations we all have for this reform, it is therefore very gratifying that the main objectives of the reform, more police in active police work, are shared by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. Such broad political agreement provides the best starting point for the implementation of the reform by the Directorate of Police and the new districts, in close cooperation with employees’ organisations. The main objective of police reform 2000 is more effective fight against crime and more police out there among people. Structural changes are, in this context, one of several instruments. There is also a need to facilitate a police force that is even more service-oriented and public-oriented than today's. Furthermore, the organisational frameworks must ensure the most efficient use of resources, so that we get as much police as possible back for the means we grant to the establishment. In order to achieve this, the Government has put forward proposals for a number of organisational measures in the reform, alongside the geographical structural proposals for reducing the number of police districts. In this respect, I add that I fully share the Committee's views on the development of additional measurement parameters in order to increase the focus on key elements in police work, such as: Traditional prevention work, although prevention must be part of all police work. I am very pleased to note that the Committee has worked together on the broad lines and main proposals of the reform, although there are differences of opinion on the extent to which the structural changes should be. However, there is broad consensus that major police districts are giving greater impetus to the fight against crime and more rational service. There is also a broad consensus in the Committee that merging some administrative tasks will increase the scope for a decentralised and public police service. However, I am somewhat surprised at the justification for maintaining some police districts, namely maintaining competence. I find it difficult to follow the reasoning. Competence is human. The fact that people are attached to a police officer in Halden and not in Sarpsborg is crucial to whether or not the competence is still present, I find it difficult to understand. I also believe that there is a downgrading of the most important aspect of police work, namely the crucial role of police stations and county councils. All new police districts shall be established with police officers in place from 1 January 2002. The follow-up to the reform will be primarily a responsibility for the Police Directorate in close cooperation with the new police districts and staff organisations. A steering group and project groups for the implementation project have already been established. When the Storting today joins the reform, all forces will be deployed to get the new police districts in place as quickly as possible. However, we should be aware that such reorganisation processes are themselves demanding, and that it is therefore also difficult to maintain the service production of the establishment during the implementation phase. However, there is still a need to pay particular attention to maintaining the pace and quality of criminal proceedings and to providing good service to the public. The public's demands and expectations for a visible and more effective police force are central to the reform. The demand for the police to be where people live and where there is a need for services is central. This includes, inter alia: in spite of fewer administrative functions, the police, after the reform has been implemented, will be found in at least as many places as today. I see that the Justice Committee has noticed that the Government in the communication has not taken a position on the organisation of civil justice on the basic plane. Of course, the organisation of civil justice is related to how police districts organise their holdings and other places of service. Therefore, shortly after the new structure has been clarified, the government will take stock of the follow-up to the present investigation, with a view to deciding on the organisation of this important area during the current year. I have also noted with satisfaction that the Government and the Committee have agreed on the development of a ‘new police master’ role. The new management and governance framework conditions underpinned by the reform will make new demands for the police officers. It is therefore important for the success of the reform that we have competent police officers who fully understand and meet the new demands for leadership and cooperation in the new police districts. With regard to the selection of police officers for the new districts, the Ministry has continued its work on the legal aspects of employment, job protection, etc. even after the staging message was submitted. In this context, I have taken note of the Committee's views and shared the broad lines of the majority's intentions on a broadest possible application process. As far as I can judge the situation from the information and assessments we have done so far, it will be legally possible to publish publicly the police master offices that can be considered new. The Ministry has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of the reform on all districts in such a way that all posts can be published collectively. However, it is clear that the police officers in the new police districts will be appointed as senior officials. An important prerequisite for the reform is that no permanent employee is to be laid off as a result of the reorganisation. Those directly affected will be offered another suitable position in the establishment. We also discuss and evaluate various forms of conversion packages, employment agreements, which could be offered to those who want to. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Police Directorate and the organisations, will place great emphasis on finding solutions that will be appropriate and fair for individuals. The government's calculations in the Communication on the release of annual works for more operational and public work are intended to show the benefits we can derive from the reform. We need to be aware that police districts in many areas are very different, both in terms of organisation, geography, personnel coverage and crime challenges. The average calculations carried out by the Ministry are based on experience figures and other management data, and local implementation will be decisive for the benefits that can actually be triggered. However, there is reason to believe that the total profit potential calculated in the notification is relatively conservative. For example, in many districts, you want to do so. likely to withdraw winnings from, inter alia: to look at the organisation locally. Furthermore, there are a number of areas where the Government has not elaborated in detail in the communication and which are not included in the numerical calculations, but which will nevertheless need to be reviewed in greater detail when the Ministry and the Police Directorate, in close cooperation with the police department’s management, staff and – in special areas – the National Attorney, are to implement the reform. Examples of such areas include dog services, emergency services, criminal justice and forensics. So let me conclude by saying that the most important thing about the reform, no matter what one might think of some sizes of annual releases or number of districts, is that today there is a broad consensus on a historical and necessary police reform that opens up a new one, so that we can get closer to our main objective of increased security in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e446	The coastal party broadly agrees with the representative of Dørum in his assessment of the need for coastal police density. I shall not repeat the points made by the representative, Mr Dørum, simply to say that the Coastal Party joins in this, and that therefore the Coastal Party will primarily support proposal No. 5, points (b) to (f), but we cannot support the proposal for point (a), as this is not in line with the police recommendations in force in this area. Secondly, we will support the Committee's position. I want to talk a little bit about why we can't support point a, and why we think it's so important that the Committee's position III is followed up by the Storting. This concerns Haugaland and Hordaland police districts, the relationship between them and the service provision of the population in this area. The Haugaland is the land between the fjords – the land between Boknafjorden and Hardangerfjorden. While the natural interaction before was bound to communication over the sea, today it is the land that binds and the sea that separates. But across the Haugaland – the land between the fjords – there is an inappropriate county border that has for many years created problems in terms of taking the consequences of changing communication patterns and, therefore, changing interaction needs. Today, the administration of counties and municipalities is changing, and natural partners find each other across municipal and county boundaries, and new, much more appropriate administrative structures are being developed between natural partners. The reorganisation takes place with one aim in mind: to improve the provision of services to users, to improve the efficiency of services, to reduce the use of purely administrative tasks, and to provide services and where needed. It is also the aim of today's police district restructuring: more presence where the need is, more efficiency in a slimmer administration, with a good use of the police resources available. Then it seems strange that there is a lack of willingness on the part of the Christian People's Party to follow the political advice that clearly states that the Haugaland, the land between Hardangerfjord and Bokenfjord, is one area. Here, new patterns of interaction are being drawn up today, and this is where we have the lines of communication that connect the inner and outer areas. Then it is only natural that police professionals should also be used when police see that effective crime prevention is linked to the addition of the police authority to a territory that belongs together in communication. A fjord is a division while the land binds. And with the opening of the Folgefonn tunnel, we get a stronger link between the outer and the inner Haugaland, which the police place very much on. There's also reason to put a lot of emphasis on that prayer, I would almost say, which comes from the PEL in Hardanger, which says: Let's take part in the new reorganisation from day one, so that the professional competence that sits in Hardanger, right from day one will be put into operation and included in the restructuring in the distribution of tasks in the new police districts. They write that they are afraid to get into a vacuum, while the municipalities and the department are negotiating how the police districts should be. The representative Simonsen also said quite clearly that this is not a local political matter, it is a judicial matter. The aim must be to combat crime more effectively and to provide more effective police services. And the police and the cannon seat are the closest to knowing what is most effective in terms of their way of working. And so: I have put forward a proposal that is a for safety fault-proposal in the event that the vote falls. It is correct, as the representative Krohn Devold said, that it is in line with the vote. But now you can't put forward any suggestions after you've started mooting. Since it is a minority proposal, it will come first, and it will be very inappropriate. So I don't know if it's possible to say that this is intended as a council for the ministry if the committee's suspension is not adopted, that the department places the political advice strongly at the bottom of its discussion with the municipalities concerned, so that there is consideration for effective police services that are the overall, not political situation of the other kind. Since I do not want this proposal to be put to the vote, I will turn it into a transmission proposal – in the event that the vote would be taken. If the setting stays, the proposal will be ignored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e467	The President shall deal with the wishes expressed. The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, has taken up proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President took note of the wish to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal and then amended the introduction in line with the wording of the transmission proposals. Whatever else happens, it's up to the Storting to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e472	Today's decision to change the administrative structure of the Norwegian police is one of the many steps the Labour Party is taking to simplify Norway. For over 100 years, we have had more or less the same organisational structure for the police administration. Under the government of Jagland, Minister of Justice Gerd Liv Valla took an initiative to review this structure. The Bondevik government established the Police Directorate, which got a big connection here in Stortinget, and which was the first step in the great work that it is to make up and build up a new structure. This is true of many people in a work situation, and many local politicians are concerned about jobs. The Labour Party has set out some overarching objectives for the reorganisation of a more effective police and labour force seat, which effectively prevents and fights crime, and which provides services to people. The main objective of the message is, as has been said, to have a police and county council that effectively prevents crime and is more service-oriented, and that can save resources in administration for better police work for all of us. Today, we have a police and loner seat that has great confidence in the majority of people in this country. If this trust is to continue, we, as politicians, need to work under conditions that enable them to achieve the established political objectives of the service. For the police and officers' seat is also being imposed on a growing number of new services, from border control to participation in peace operations, and not least emphasising a comprehensive justice system, as said, that all preventive work needs to be given much greater emphasis in the future. A very important premise for the district structure is that service locations and contact points in relation to people in the local environment are at least as many and are at least as service providers as they are today. These are the resources released by the reform, which will be used primarily to strengthen the police's work within the police district after the targets have been drawn up. In order to obtain good operational units, some important provisions have also been drawn up to achieve efficiency and cost reduction. For the Labour Party, it has been important that the new police districts are given greater professional scope and greater freedom to use resources to deploy both resources and human resources for operational work instead of administration. The presence of some important facilities, such as courts and prisons, is also a matter of concern. The fact that it is useful in smaller districts with closeness to other public offices also has our place. Based on a police evaluation, it is important to localise the police department where one sees that one will achieve resource savings in relation to geographical distances. In large terms, the Workers' Party has had a positive impact on its positions based on these statements, with one exception, my own home country. We've been so lucky that we've been with people in the Fjordane Police Department working group, and just as fully the Department of Sogndal countries, based on police professional arguments. That there is a party here in the Stortinget that still sees it as likely that we in Sogn and Fjordane should have two police districts, I take note. But if my county is to move funds from administration to prevention and better services, we also have to provide ours. What surprises me the most is that a party that knows our geography and population density does not focus on some important commitments to save funds, such as that Sogndal meets the demands of the courts and prisons, has good premises that ensure a good working environment, and is the nearest node of a multiple of the municipalities, with a travel time of two hours. By choosing Florø, many will have a travel time of from three to four hours. This is not inconsequential in an area where it is largely only district municipalities. We also don't need a police and an prosecution unit that only spends the day driving a car. But that it's Norway's westernmost point to be the geographic midpoint of Sogn and Fjordane, I thought one had to go further than Oslo to believe. I hope that the representatives here in Stortinget will take this inward when they decide on this matter in a short time. Today it is party politics and the geographical address of the representatives that have led some parties to choose Florø, not the political arguments. This is basically a small reproach for the political threat and also for the PEL, which otherwise has been occupied by political arguments throughout the country. As a reference to SV's Kristin Halvorsen, I can tell you that when it comes to prevention work between the municipalities and the police, it is Sogn Police District that stands out. But I feel today that it does not matter here in Stortinget. Based on what I have just said, I hope that with today's chosen structure, we will have an effective and resourceful police and relief service for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e504	Police reform 2000 leads to the largest reorganization in the police of over 100 years. The best thing about this communication is to see the need for reform and the need for a more powerful police force in the fight against crime. But it is probably right to have some critical comments about such a comprehensive reform. I am in doubt about the premises for the choice of police district sizes and whether the personal gain holds the goal. The notification claims that police reform 2000 will make the police more visible and accessible to the public by releasing 300 annual works, equivalent to 400 official posts, from decommissioned organisational centres in districts that disappear. What has not been prepared is whether to have an operating centre in the city's night and weekend police station. The question becomes whether 26 cities or districts lose their police station outside office hours. Is it going to be the result of the Government's calculation going up? The Operational Center also serves the police detention facility at night and on weekends. It is also suggested that the number of arrests could be reduced by 20, but with what consequences? Prison transport to the central detention centre around the clock will also require large resources and will incur additional costs to the districts that are not adequately described in this communication or in the notification of the courts. The Department says they want the police out to the audience. I guess none of the political parties disagree. However, it also requires a number of equipment when questioning and writing reports on the site, for example. The police have long wanted wireless data in police cars, as is already the case in other countries. This wish has been placed on the ministry's table, and it has been rejected until further notice. Isn't it a desire to have a more effective police force in practice? The Minister of Justice was in the spring visiting Halden at the border police and customs office, and she was very pleased with the cooperation between the agencies. Halden Police District believes that it is a strength for the control work at Norway’s largest border crossings – Svinesund and Ørje – that these are in the same police district. It is a matter for the entire committee to decide on, as opposed to the proposal for reform by the Government. Marker and Rømskog will thus, as border municipalities, come under Halden Police District. There are specific criminal policy challenges that relate to the land-based border and the coastal border. I am afraid of the proposal to divide responsibility for border control in Eastfold between several police districts can lead to more work, less efficiency and different treatment of cases, which will be a little luck in the fight against drug smuggling, human trafficking and organised crime. Combating border crime is a national task. The investigation of police districts has led to the conviction of several perpetrators. The police district stands for a place between the entire 35 pst. and 50 pst. of expulsions from the country and there will continue to be foreign controls at the border areas following the Schengen introduction. In addition, for example, Kripos and the Oslo Police Chamber have often used the skills of Halden to investigate organised crime. The conclusion is that Halden Police District has specific challenges and competences related to border-related issues. That is why Halden must be maintained as a separate police district. In addition, the same principles and framework apply to Kongswinger, and we also want it as a separate police district. A central arrest in Florø in Sogn and Fjordane will lead to the best use of resources where the need is greater. At my discretion, the structure of the holding does not allow for a specialised structure of competence other than that currently applied to the holding in Florø and Førde. The fjord police districts relate to 75 pst. of all crime in the County of Sogn and Fjordane, while only 18 pst. of the cases will be located at the Inner Sogn. The location proposed will include, inter alia: cause a disproportionate proportion of the working time to be taken into account when travelling to the holding. The same applies to the Baltic Sea, which is very central in the Nordic countries, and will be the most appropriate place to choose for a location. In the case of law enforcement, there has also been consultation. Some of the hearing bodies have great scepticism about the law enforcement. I do, too, and on the basis of that, I will, in the end, on behalf of myself and Vidar Kleppe, propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to put an end to the U.S. Police and return the crew to the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e537	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the proposal to which he referred. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e542	Better use of resources and more efficient and operational police are the basis and key behind this message. I think it was Arne Johannessen, the head of the Police Union, who expressed that one does not measure the effectiveness of the number of police officers. I think that's very wise words. That is why there is really a strengthening of the operational units, namely the Länsmann Offices and the Police Stations, which play the key role in the implementation of what one wants to achieve. So a little bit about the special theme that is up to vote today, that goes in the area south of Hardangerfjord. It is quite right that the committee has done in relation to Sunnhordland, by now stating that Bømlo, Stord and Fitjar go to Haugaland. It was already said in the NOU that when the triangle connection came, it was natural. It is also in itself an argument that the area south of Hardangerfjord should go to Haugaland, or what it is likely to call in the future: Haugaland and Sunnhordland police district. Furthermore, the crime scene also speaks for it to be so. Likewise, the next case that comes, the court structure, and also the communication side, speaks for it to be so. But there is a significant difference between what goes on in the area south of Hardangerfjord, and what a committee says in the case of Bømlo, Stord and Fitjar. It's that this topic came into the process as a topic very late, namely after one in Hardanger realized that it was not possible to maintain a separate Hardanger police district. It is not mentioned in the NOU, so that the municipalities have not normally been allowed to express themselves on this matter. That is why I think it is reasonable that the municipalities should also have their say. But I would like to stress that it is the department that is going to decide this, and then only in consultation with the municipalities. When we look at the five municipalities, it is not certain that all five should be treated equally. It is not certain that it is the same solution for Women's Heath as for example. for Eidfjord at the very end of the fjord. It is primarily the political assessments that need to be taken into account. Another moment is the size of the police districts. If this is done, Hordaland police districts will go down from 420 000 to 380 000 inhabitants to serve. A Haugaland police district will be significantly strengthened from 110 000 to 150 000 and will also be naturally located between Rogaland in the south, which has 280 000, and Hordaland, which will still be the remotest district outside Oslo. What I want to say at the end is that if this is adopted today, it is necessary to get a quick clarification in relation to the implementation of the message itself. I trust that the Minister of Justice will be able to handle this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e553	This major police reform is important if you want to take the realities of the day inward. Police work is no longer as it was, one does not investigate bicycle thefts and drunkenness. The new type of crime is international, with Mafia and child abuse – more serious and tougher at all levels. Police districts need more professional competence in these areas, and they need a decentralised responsibility. So it's necessary to reduce the number, from quantity to quality. It is also important to stress that the reform will bring more policemen into the streets. This I will watch being tested, too many doubts about it. It is also important to me that the number of places of employment should be at least as large as today, i.e. a district-friendly reform. In the case of East-Agder police districts which the majority will join with Kristiansand and West-Agder, I agree, in the light of what I have said earlier. It is important to stress that the five Setesdal municipalities and Birkenes and Lillesand are all agreed to go to Kristiansand. So we're not talking about the whole state, we're talking about eight out of 15 municipalities left. I think in the case of East Agder, a collection is correct. The number of jobs disappearing from Arendal is difficult to quantify, but with a greater activity among the operative police, the number of positions in the East-Agder police can be close to zero. The democratic process among the staff of the East-Agder force shows that there are shared opinions, but perhaps a majority of a Great-Agder. The case of East-Agder police district may end up as an emotional matter for Arendal, who becomes the only county capital without a police officer. There is a strong regionalisation in Norway now, and this case should teach us that if East-Agder does not now build alliances with neighbouring countries, more and more regional institutions will pass East-Agder. It is a fact that Kristiansand is geographically correct, and it is therefore important that a new regional institution be spread across the whole of Agder through cooperation. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Christian People's Party both in East-Agder and in West-Agder agree with the party's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e573	I have no habit of interfering in the debate with the Justice Committee, but as a representative of East-Agder, I have to say that this matter is upsetting me: Why should East-Agder be the only one without a policeman? Arendal police districts are among the ten largest police districts in the country and should be a pattern for others. All reports and statistics show that this is a well-run police district with very high clearance rates and a short duration of treatment. It's strange that a growing part of the country is going to lose the police master's office. Just because we're growing, we need someone who has a firm grip on development, and who knows the problems and the shadows by growing. By bringing together the Agder forces, they're going to have a sub-politics force, completely contrary to what it's set up in the NOU. Neither has the Government submitted this in the proposition. Here it was only Kristiansand and West Agder police districts that were to be merged. By including East Agder, we get a stretch of coastline that is as long as from the border with Telemark to Oslo. And here are at least five police officers! Unfortunately, our long coast is being used as smuggling ports. The distance to Denmark is not great – and it is becoming less and less with better and faster boats. The Agders want ten towns in a large police district. By cutting out one police officer, I'm afraid one must have more middle-level leaders instead – and there are no more policemen out in the streets! It is very unfortunate that the Storting today is in favour of a merger that was not intended and that has not been investigated. The majority have relied on an opinion of the Joint Police Association. It's proven to be a little bit of a representative. Finally, I hope you can get a vote in which the Agder people are voted on separately. It should be as simple as choosing between two cities in the West. After all, it's all about two different states. To the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen, I would say: the Christian People's Party is united on what was proposed by the Government. It is the Workers' Party that turns its back on its own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e596	St.meld. No 22 suggest strengthening police prevention activities, with all levels of the criminal chain contributing to a comprehensive prevention strategy. I will give tribute to the Committee which has so clearly expressed the following: ‘Both organisational and methodological work must focus on prevention, in particular focus on interdisciplinary cooperation between the departments.’ In addition, it says: ‘The main challenge is to deploy resources and actions, and to further develop methods to improve this part of police work.’ This strategy can only succeed if there is a clearly defined prevention strategy at the centre, and there is special expertise in each police district. Police shall have a central and regional prevention strategy, and the police shall cooperate extensively and committedly with other public authorities responsible for the safety and general well-being of citizens, as it states. It is important to clarify that prevention means ‘to build before’, i.e. to put in place operational measures before a criminal offence has taken place. In order to develop pre-criminal strategies and measures, there needs to be competence in a subject area that has been under development over the past 30 years. An overall strategy, like St.meld. No 22 therefore need to strengthen peak competence in the area of prevention police services in the police districts. Reorganisation of the districts into major administrative units with several holdings and closure of the sub-district requires the development of central police districts with the responsibility for developing comprehensive police district strategies and a link between the police and other public authorities, and has overall responsibility for the development of prevention competence across the police district. It is necessary to require a strategy providing the status and content of prevention that obliges all leaders to prioritize this important field of work in the new organisational model. I again give the Committee and the Council of State a favourable opinion on the issue of prevention, because – as it might be called informally – it is cheaper to build children than to repair adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e621	Police reform 2000 is a comprehensive review of an extremely important field of action in order to maximise the use of resources made available annually by the police. In this case, too, the Labour Party and the Right are forming the majority position. The number of police districts will be significantly reduced, from today 54, to allegedly increase the number of police in the streets. The Christian People's Party is very questionable as to whether this will succeed in reorganising and therefore wants to maintain 37 police districts, including a separate Halden police district, on the basis of the main intention that border areas should be ensured as best as possible. In this respect, I refer to our comments in the vote, as in particular. points out that the entire 75 pst. of the registered offices are border-related. There are heavy loads at the border today. The Police Chamber has over a number of years the power to build up a competence that is very important to take care of in the future. The opinions of Halden City and the Police Chamber are a desire to continue to maintain their police chamber, a wish supported by the Christian People's Party, and which the majority in Stortinget should also have supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e630	The Christian People's Party has joined forces to maintain more police districts than the government and the majority of the committee have landed. In the evaluations, the border problem has been one of the important criteria. That is why we have proposed to maintain Halden and Kongsvinger as our own police districts. They both have built up good skills, which are important to further develop in a good way. It is a subject area where challenges will continue and are likely to increase. As a keyword, international crime and smuggling of both goods and people. The Christian People's Party has noticed that Kongsvinger police districts primarily wanted to remain their own district, as today, and as we have suggested. Unfortunately, we were unable to get a majority for our proposal. The majority have proposed that the entire police district be merged with the rest of Hedmark. We have to deal with that. The Christian People's Party will continue to focus on the challenges of border crime, and points out that it is becoming important in the new, large police district, with a limit of about a quarter. 37 miles and with many possibilities to cross the border. Schengen is an important key in this context. The experience and competence of Kongsvinger and Østerdal police districts also need to be further developed in the field of animal crime, within the new Hedmark police district. Personally, I believe that Elverum would have been the best location whose geographical assessments were the most important criterion. However, as an overall assessment must also be on the basis, I have not proposed Elverum as a location for the new Hedmark police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e639	A well-known saying says it's okay to shave, but don't cut off the chin at the same time. In the case of police districts in Northern Ireland, I and the Christian People's Party believe that the majority of the Workers' Party and the right parties have also taken the pick. In particular, the merger of Narvik, Senja and Lofoten and Vesteralen police districts into the Middle Hålogaland police district. At my discretion, it must be a desk construction of the worst kind. We get here an area where it's up to 50 miles between the extremities, a distance that almost equals the Trondheim-Oslo route. What about the proximity of people and employees throughout this gigantic area? What about eight-ten hours travel distance tour-return to hold joint meetings? How much more efficiency in the police is there with such a starting point? The Lofoten and the West Pole are the two heaviest fishing regions in Europe. It is difficult to take seriously the signals of increased focus on resource control and environmental crime when it is proposed to remove the chamber that should have been a spearhead in the fight to enforce a fisheries legislation to preserve fish resources for the future. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that it is primarily the police arguments that should weigh heavily on this matter. But we also see clearly that under the arguments for necessary renewal, there is a disguised centralisation. The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party are regrouping here to centralise and move skills/labour away from the districts. Today, when the majority in the Grand Duchy adopts Mid-Hålogaland Police District, this will be enough of a territorial policy defeat, without heavy professional justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e648	I take the floor because I got a couple of hacks under the posts of the representatives from the Left and the Centre here instead. They were concerned about the future work on border crime. That they focus on border crime, I think is positive – and was expected. But this security of how to best combat that crime was what amazed me. Everyone I've brought to Halden, including two judicial committees and several justice ministers, has been impressed by the work they've done there against border crime, over the competences built up, over how it's organized, and the cooperation with customs. Everyone agrees that it should and must continue, rather than less of it. With this reform, there will just be more of it, because it will free people and resources. It's the same people who are doing it today, who are going to keep doing it -- they are the ones who can do it, and they are the ones who have to keep doing it. As to whether they are given the opportunity to do so, it is crucial in relation to whether they have money for it, whether they have resources for it, whether they have people for it – and not where the police chief had to sit. This sloping safety shows a total lack of trust in local capabilities, in Halden’s ability to take responsibility, exercise of authority and continue with this task. The Halden people will do an equally good job even if their top leader were to sit two miles further away. These representatives also ignore the fact that the police chief, or the chieftain, as the representative of Dørum called him, has a new role to play in this reform. There will be a more administrative role, more large lines, while the specific commands will be more from station managers and those who are closest to the ‘Indians’ if we are to follow the terminology of the Door. These representatives also ignore the fact that border crime does not stop in Halden. It's not just a Halden problem — it's a national problem, yes — but it's especially for the whole of Eastfold. I have lived in the municipality of Halden for 10 years and 25 years in the municipality of Sarpsborg, but I have always lived about a mile from the Swedish border. The four Eastfold cities are dense and have common crime. The villains see the four Eastfold cities as a single market, and the police must do the same. It will also be an advantage for Halden to be part of the new Eastfold district, which is a common criminal market. "Listen to the grassroots in Eastfold," said Tor Nymo. Yes, that's exactly what we're doing. And unlike the representative Nymo, I walk through that grass every day and know what the signals are from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e657	We go into a time when it is not about lack of money, but lack of active hands. For this reason, it is important that all public sectors and agencies be reviewed for efficiency and simplification. The left considers it important and necessary to review the public sector. Renewal and adaptation are important, but here a fit must not be centralised and more bureaucracy will be the result. The left says yes to renewal and rationalisation, but no to extensive centralisation. It may seem that during the Labor Party government it is now adding up, the greatest wave of centralization after the war. Examples here are the hospital reform, the centralisation of road offices, aviation agencies – and the issue we are dealing with today, the merger of police districts. For the Left, the principle of subsidiarity is important. To reduce the number of police districts to the extent that this is proposed by the majority is to go too far. It's actually right to use the word 'dramatic', as the minority says in its remark. In More and Romesdal there are proposals for the merger of the Romesdal and North-Mear and the closure of the police master's office in Molde. My claim is: the police administration won't work better if you collect it. Taking into account travel time and travel expenses, I don't think there are resources to save either. The Romesdal Police Chamber is considered to be one of the most well-organised of the country, with a particularly high level of clarification and rapid processing. It's a good principle not to take away what works well. For the Left, the problems surrounding the border and the coast, proximity, have been important foundations of the assessments in this matter. I don't think moving the chief of police from Molde to Kristiansund will help reveal newly established villains in Molde. That the 112 number outside office hours goes to the neighboring town, I don't think it's any more difficult for any bad guys in Molde. The argument about larger districts to acquire special competence is doubtful. It remains to be seen whether the majority is right. I think that should strengthen the police and get the police more out on the street, get the police more visible, it has to do with attractiveness, career opportunities and pay, and it has to do with the means that are granted here in this room. The majority proposal is therefore too dramatic. 37 police districts, with the consequences it has, are a better solution. This proposal implies that the three towns or municipalities in More and Romesdal still have their police chief, and that More and Romesdal can continue as three police districts. In addition, the county capital will then still be able to have its police chief. So the present proposal from the minority is, in my opinion, the best thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e666	An attempt to rewrite the truth will not be correct even if it is repeated, as the representative Ane Sofie Tömrås tried in his three-minute post. Like the Minister of Justice, he had a somewhat eye-catching argument in relation to the minority's proposal to maintain Halden Police District. The Minister of Justice said, among other things: that the consequence of our position was a devaluation of the human resource of police officers in Halden. So it's wrong to take. Has not the Minister of Justice and the representative of Mr Tömräs brought with him the compact resistance that has just emerged from this environment? From here, people in no way feel confident that the leadership of the Labour Party, supported by the Right and the Advance Party, has put in place is sufficient to ensure the unique competence of the Halden police in combating border-related crime. It is because they know that by removing the district police from Halden and moving away, there may be a clear element in the fact that the chief of police has a different priority compared to whether the chief of police was located in Halden. Actually, it's not harder. The situation is similar in Telemark, where the Government proposed – and is supported by the Right – to merge the five police districts of the county into one. Here we are talking about a geographically large area and, equally important, a state with very different types of crime. Politically, it should then be decided — and it is also in line with the comments of the central parties — that it makes sense to maintain a Upper Telemark police district located to Notodden. Here we also experience that the Right supports the Government's proposal, and that it will be the majority vote here in the Chamber. I also regret that we do not get a majority to maintain the Lofoten and the Vestralen police district. There I have the same arguments as the representative Sahl, namely large geographical distances and problems with closeness to the police district management – at all strong arguments that there should still be one police district for the Lofoten and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e675	The most important and major issues that the government has raised are getting more today, and it's really great, because this is a good reform. And when the main problem of today's system is a long case-handling time and that things are going on, yes, then it actually requires reorganisation, and that's what luckily gets multiple numbers today. And then I thought this was talking about centralization in connection with this being a little weird, because the proximity of all those who are going to do the service there should still be. It's probably not for the chief of police to report the bike's chair. It is now a relatively small matter, but at least I feel that this will be taken care of with closeness. Hordaland police district gets big, that's the setting. Yeah, it's gonna be, but we who live there are actually nothing afraid of it. It's a large state, with 430,000 inhabitants, and we thought it was a decent size, so we thought it would be very good to keep Hordaland together. But the most important thing, of course, is to get a multiple that's the best possible. And when the majority didn't want Hordaland to be together, I thought that the suggestion that Stord, Bømlo and Fitjar go to Haugesund is the next best. But I have to say that I react when I read in the box that the care of the Haugaland police district is actually more important than the care of those who live in Hordaland. Because it's too small, and then you have to move something from Hordaland to get Haugaland big enough. If everything is going to be equal, I see that it's an argument, but I actually don't think it would be decisive for my view. The decision would be whether a good service had good point skills, and there could be one in Hordaland with a large police district. But as I said, from Hordaland's side, I thought the next thing, that Stord, Bømlo and Fitjar go to Haugaland, is a good order. So I sincerely hope that the Christian People's Party sees how important it is for the other municipalities in Hordaland that belong today to Hardanger – south of Hardangerfjord, as it is written here – themselves to be present and decide where they should be. Because when one tries to say that the municipality of Eidfjord is going to listen to Haugesund, I'm going to say that I actually think it would have been better to leave it to Sogn Police District. For you have to look at what Hordaland looks like. Adding Eidfjord to Haugaland police district would be tragic compared to travel time. So I hope that the department does what the Labour Party has written, that one in consultation with the municipalities that it applies, will look at where these municipalities belong. And I hope it happens quickly, and that these municipalities don't have to live in uncertainly very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e684	I understand that, in the course of the debate, there have been views that might suggest that one might underestimate the competence of police officers in a place where one does not merge districts. I want to express it in a completely different way. The Norwegian police have a great deal of confidence around this country because we have a decentralised structure, and where the centres of expertise in the police are perceived to be such that people say ‘we’ about the police and not ‘they’. This intersection between ‘we’ and ‘they’ is not just a police evaluation. It is also an assessment of the public's relationship with the police. From the left's point of view, and I also see the same thing as the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, we stress that this vi-form should be retained. That's why we also pay so much attention to maintaining a greater number of police districts than the majority now supports. So I would like to repeat: it is actually my belief that getting policemen out on the street, as the Minister of Justice has said, she will go for or off if she doesn't get it – and I do not think she does it – you don't do it by this merger, but you do it by following the line of creating status, pay and career paths that make policemen happy and happy to look for jobs in the street. We all deserve to get them out, but that's what's the tool. So you can always sit on the business cards and think about it, but I've been involved in a little too many manoeuvres, and I'm concerned with the practical results. Then I also took the word because in the previous article I did not get the discussion that with considerable intensity and pressure takes place not only about Halden, which I was going to comment on, but also about Hardanger. I have to say that it is almost so I feel that we are back to the debate on the referendum on the European Union in 1972, taking into account the kind of influence and intensity that have been in this matter. The left has the following simple point of view: we are voting in favour of the proposal tabled by the Labour Party, No. 2, which states that people in the relevant municipalities will be heard. That's the ones that are going to express what's right. Top of the page: It may be that this is politically wise, but at the end of the day, the police professional must relate to what the citizens of this country feel is the right thing to do. If the citizens don't feel it's right, and they don't even get taken on board, it's a bad move. In the Committee, the Workers' Party is in a minority, and I understand that they receive subsidiary support from the representative Marthinsen and a number of his party traps, and the Left as a group votes for such a way of dealing with the people of Hardanger. It's showing respect, and it's actually about people still saying 'we' about the police and not starting to say 'they'. Then even a person born in Oslo and raised in Trøndelag, after traveling around this country for 38 years, will have noticed that there are some cultural geographical differences whose character one should not underestimate. But over the 38 years, I've learned that trying to split people in Hardanger is not going to be a political mess. In any case, they will be asked to participate in that process themselves, and we will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e697	Efficiency and rationalisation are one of the objectives of this police reform. In such an aspect one must also be able to see the merger of the material service of the police with the data service of the police. It is an important issue for police services, but it is also an important issue in terms of territorial considerations. I am pleased that the majority of the committee goes beyond the Government and wants a joint management to be added to Gran, where the police's material service is today. It was in its time great opposition to the fact that that institution was to be placed outside the Oslo pot, but the company has shamed that criticism. It's a well-functioning organization with 80 pst. by members of staff of the community. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party has joined the original proposal of the Centre parties that the joint management should be left outside Oslo and therefore believe that there can be as good management from this geographical location as from Majorstua. Of course, I'm not, or other hate landings and landings for that matter, satisfied until we get the entire police data service physically transferred to Gran. Our district and Uppland in particular have already lost a great many state jobs as a result of the competence reform for special educational support measures. We lost a lot of government jobs. It could be appropriate that some of these come back again, correctly from another subject area. I can also make sure that there is a lot of good data literacy in the area that this is talking about. It is that 80-90 jobs like this could be about, maybe more, would be a good help in relation to the increased commuting that we have from this district. It's the district in my home country that has most people commuting out of their own municipality to get work. This too should be taken into account in a reform aimed at rationalising and improving efficiency as an objective. It's not efficiency if you have to spend a terrible amount of time traveling. With data communication and all the modern technology that can now be applied in all areas, there would be no practical difficulties with this if the political will is present, as I see it is grounded in the comment that is now in this setting. I welcome that with joy, but the fight is not yet settled. We need to continue working to get the physical location of the data service to Gran.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e709	I also want to underline, because I did not get it in my first post, what the representative Kristin Halvorsen pointed to as important. It's about the prevention work, the work that we can't read out, but that's so valuable, as the police do, and that we want the police to continue to do, yes expand, so that we can get an interaction between the public and the private that can lead to a safer society in the future. I would also like to comment on what the Minister of Justice said, that it is difficult to understand that the competence is weakened if the chief of police is sitting in Halden or Sarpsborg, because the competence is linked to people. Yes, I don't have much difficulty understanding that the Minister of Justice says, but I can't understand why the Workers' Party needs to comment. Then the Minister of Justice must address his own party traps and ask: why do you need to say this? I would also like to comment on the fact that the question of East-Agder and the merger with one police district in the districts of the districts is fairly quick. I would like to do this in connection with Mr Rasmussen's posts, where he uses the argument for the Workers' Party's remark about the municipalities on the south side of Hardangerfjord that this came in so late, and therefore one had to make such a comment. We in the Christian People's Party agree in a subsidiary way with this remark, but the representative's comments could as well have gone on Aust-Agder. But you're doing this very carefully, probably because you needed a majority for your position in collaboration with the Right. That's exactly what Ranveig Frøiland needs to understand. She says from the pulpit of the Storting that she hopes that the Christian People's Party will think about it in relation to Hordaland and Haugaland. Yeah, we've been thinking about it. That's why we have a primary setting. But because the majority parties are unable to agree, the others need to help themselves with the solution. Then we said that we have a secondary position in this case. It wants the Christian People's Party to highlight as something that is our secondary position. I hope, as has been said before, that we can get a good result in the end. We'll cooperate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e718	Sometimes it's like the most exciting thing happens in the main hall during the debate, and sometimes it's like it's going on in the hallways, out in the corridors or around the country. I have some questions, first of all to the Progress Party, at the brink of this debate. I'm aware that Carl I. Hagen was in Sogn and Fjordane yesterday, and that he there has given the signal that the Progress Party should be interested in turning the vote from going in to Florø, which they are going to vote for in the committee's position, to go in to Sogndal if they could buy that location with a continued court in Nordfjordeid. I think this is such an eye-catching message, especially if it's after Carl I. Hagen's idea after where he was last out traveling, that I would like to have a clarification from the Progress Party as to how they're actually going to vote. Then I would like to ask Carl I. Hagen himself, directly, about what is the reason he argues in one way around the county he was at last, but not even participates in the debate in the main hall, yes, not even is to see. On the contrary, there has been eye-catching emptiness for progress party representatives in this Chamber today. I would also like to have a clarification from Carl I. Hagen regarding what is the background because he says one thing in a county and not even participates in the debate in the hall, and whether it is such that there has been some contact between the Progress Party and the Labour Party or the Progress Party and the Right about some sort of purchase order in these cases. There are also representatives from the Workers' Party and the Right who may confirm or cancel if there has been any such contact. I take this up at the end of the debate because I think it is alarming if you run and gamble with things that have been being treated in the Storting for a long time. It is particularly alarming if the gambling takes place in the self-appointed law and the Order Party, contrary to their own positions on the committee and after the party president's tour of the last 24 hours. That is why I hope to get some answers and clarifications. This is a matter of great local interest, and I would like to comment on whether it is that the law and order policy of the Progress Party is determined by the approach or the casino principle, we might well call it, even if it is a ban on casino activities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e729	At the risk of interrupting an interesting exchange of views, I asked for the word in relation to a slightly different matter than the one that Kristin Halvorsen raised. There have been some questions relating to the management by the Ministry of a possible majority decision in Stortinget on the southern municipalities of Hordaland. I just want to confirm that you need to contact the relevant municipalities and try to clarify what the result would be, very quickly. Because before we find out where those municipalities belong, we're not going to implement the Haugaland and Hordaland reforms. That's the one. The second thing I wanted to comment on briefly, concerns something the representative Dørum said. Of course, I don't disagree with Dørum, and I have also confirmed it earlier, that there are important types of measures to make it attractive to have services out on the street to say it a little simple. But I see no contradiction between that and what is the objective of this reform. I don't think it helps either with police specialist positions or with other things when it comes to transforming administrative, economic, or accounting positions in each police district into more active police work using that kind of instrument. So here we have to have both – and, but I believe so far, the representative Dørum also agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e738	I heard the representative Kristin Halvorsen say that there were few advance party people in the Chamber during the debate. While she herself kept her post, I registered only one representative from SV, other than Kristin Halvorsen himself. I remind Kristin Halvorsen that it is possible to follow the debate from the television screen in our offices and take a smoke at the same time, and that is often an excellent solution. The Progress Party is in place to place police chiefs and police officers in Sogn and Fjordane in Florø. We have done so on the advice of the Sogn and the Fjordane Progress Party, and I have also recorded that this is the clear advice of the Joint Police Association, and that both argue that this is the best comprehensive solution and the best police solution. I hope that other representatives in this Chamber who are still in doubt will also go for such a solution. There is no doubt that crime is the largest in the region of Florø-Førde. It is where most people need to be brought before a court of custody, and that is why there is a need to have representatives of the prosecution authority nearby. It is true that there are courts both in Förde and in Sogndal, but it is the court in Förde that has the most, most of the cases, almost 70 pst. It's also true that a good part of the court cases are actually put in Florø under the administration of the Court of Justice in Førde. So the attitude of the Progress Party is quite clear. I have registered that a council meeting in Sogn and Fjordane Progress Party has said that they are willing to turn their vote in favour of Sogndal, assuming they have to keep a court somewhere in the county. I have also registered that the Vice President of the Workers' Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, has very clearly stated that she could not imagine participating in any such trade. It has therefore not been necessary for the Progress Party to follow this advice from Sogn and Fjordane Progress Party. We stand on the position we have been recommended as the primary point of view of the Sogn and the Fjordane Progress Party, for which the Joint Alliance of Police is in favour, which is the clear best solution, and which I would recommend not only the whole of the Group of the Progressive Party to vote in favour, but also other representatives who have not yet taken their decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e749	I am very pleased with Jan Simonsen's clarification from the pulpit here, because I must also admit that I reacted with great wonder this morning when I received various telephones and enquiries from Sogn and Fjordane, where there had been a news on the local radio that the Progress Party had turned to the location issue about where it was most rational to have the new police district management, in exchange for some court. It seemed incredibly strange, and my immediate comment to it was that this could not be right. So it's good to hear that Jan Simonsen confirms it, because in that way this debate has brought clarity to two of the unresolved questions. One is that both SV and Left have signalled support for Florø, and it should provide a reassuring majority together with the majority in the committee. It is good that the Progress Party also stands on what has been their position all along in the setting and the statements that they have made externally. The second issue that has probably been settled in the debate is the question of Hardanger South, where it seems, with the support of Left and SV, to be a majority to let the ministry decide that matter. Then I ask that the advice given by Jan Petter Rasmussen from the pulpit, namely that, after advice from the municipalities here in the first place, attention be paid to police counsel, is also noticed by the Council of State, because there may indeed be situations where the political councils actually differ from the views of local politicians. And our job as justice economists, and as politicians in the justice sector, is primarily to take into account the police professional advice. Finally, a proposal has been tabled by the representative, Mr Stag, on behalf of Mr Kleppe and himself, to close the U.S. police force. I would ask that this proposal be drawn up. The reason for this is quite simple: the last time the Storting had this matter up to voting, there was a clear majority against the proposal. In the position of the Justice Committee, there is a majority to ask the Ministry to review this in an overall framework. And getting this proposal voted down in the Chamber will be very contrary to the steps in the right direction that we have been given in the vote. So if the purpose of the proposal is to make the most of the pieces and the pieces, you have an opportunity to do it, but you're going to put the changes in the opposite direction of what you're supposed to work for. Then I would like to thank you for a good debate, and I think the result will be a future police Norway that can look forward to meeting in the future, and which is a lot better adapted to developments than what we see per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e762	Just so it's not going to be hanging from our side again something in the air that there should have been some contacts related to the settings that exist here today, and that's explained by the individual parties, and especially what Kristin Halvorsen said about a connection between the local elections for the police district management in Sogn and Fjordane and a court in Nordfjordeid, I would say that there is absolutely no truth in those indications. At least I haven't heard anything like that. I reacted and was also surprised when I heard reports from statements from the media’s leading parties, and I thought it seemed very unprofessional when we heard that suddenly at the end of a case that we had been on the table in the committee four to five months, and when the setting was ready for treatment in the storeroom, there should have been some attempt at contact. It has never, as I said, been relevant. This suggests a kind of override that in many contexts maybe also the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen has been exponent for. But I'm taking Jan Simonsen's statement here and confirmation for information in the sense that he's giving the same version. Only in the end: in terms of criteria for the choice of police management, many simply use the term ‘political criteria’. It is not always easy to know what the political criteria mean. I took an example from Uppland, where the Police Joint Union and their government felt that it should be merged into one police district. Nearly half of the police community in Uppland thought the opposite was true. So did the Lensman Battle and the policemen. And then you might ask yourself, what is the political choice we have to make? I feel that someone would have liked to have taken precisely the hearing bodies that initially corresponded to their own opinions, to the income of the police profession. In many respects, I feel that the police evaluation is in fact the strongest in the department and not necessarily in the individual hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e771	I get a little confused when I hear the debate. I heard the representative Simonsen's reply to Kristin Halvorsen when it came to Sogn and Fjordane, where he very strongly highlighted the views of the Police Union. Now there are more such localization struggles. There's one on Helgeland between Mo and Lake Mo and Lake Mo. And as I know, the Police Joint Alliance is going in for Mo, but in the committee position, the Advance Party is going in for the lake. Now there are rumors that the representative Simonsen is actually in favour of Mo, but has been voted down in his own big group. If that's right, I don't know, but I know that the Nordic representative Kenneth Svendsen is strongly in favour of the lake and in a newspaper post also referred to the information he had received from the Police Joint Association. So it is possible that the Progress Party in this matter, on a very weak professional basis, in fact based on misinformation – the representative Svendsen is unfortunately not here – has taken a position that is not consistent with the argument that Simonsen had when it came to Sogn and Fjordane. Is it, then, that in that location, the positions of the Joint Union of Police do not mean anything in particular? Or is it that Simonsen's representative is disqualified because in the Advancement Party they are premiered on the basis of the internal relations of the party? Then Kenneth Svendsen deserves to be premiered – I understand – while the representative Simonsen is disqualified on a professional basis. In that case, I expect the representative Simonsen to vote in favour of the Mo proposal, since it has been tabled in the Chamber, and to argue for it from here, despite the fact that he may be voted down in his own group. But I'm very surprised at the way the Progress Party, which is very concerned with this with law and order and by the police, argues, and how they conclude. It's at least very confusing to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e779	Sir. Simonsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e782	The progress party has in 90 pst. by the cases taken into account the advice of the Police Joint Association, and then I think the Police Joint Union and others should be pleased with it. The two exceptions relate to Finnmark, where we want to place the head office in Alta, and Northland, where we have gone into the sea, among others. After our representative from the Nordland Progress Party, who has visited both the Mosjøen Police Chamber and the Mo in Rana Police Chamber, argued that the best thing from a political point of view was the Mosjøen. It got a majority in our big group, and the whole big group is therefore going to vote in favour of the lake.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e787	Kristin Halvorsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e790	I would like to talk in exactly the one minute I have left, to give Carl I. Hagen time to run in the corridor, away from his office and in here, and clarify his vibrancy in the localization question in Sogn and Fjordane, for I expect that he burns after clarifying what his behavior is due the last day. So what's the matter in public is that Carl I. Hagen has been willing to go into a chef's shop with the Workers' Party and the Right to secure a court, and in return, go away from Florø and back to Sogndal as a location in Sogn and Fjordane. But I think, if the opposite is not proved, that they've had group meetings here, that's why the hall was so empty, and that Carl I. Hagen has been forced back into place by Jan Simonsen. But I find it interesting to note that a party leader in a party to be taken seriously in law and order, i.e. is willing to, at the moment the matter is dealt with in the Chamber, negotiate in the back room to change the location, which all the other hearing bodies have had to deal with, in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e800	I did not take the floor to interfere in the debate that SV is trying to bring up regarding the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen. I have liberated myself from that part. But I reacted to the representative Ane Sofie Tömröss instead, where I got the impression that she was allowed to represent the grassroots in Eastfold regarding the division of police districts. I don't think that's the case. The reality is that there are between 5,000 and 6,000 signatures in Halden that clearly state that they want Halden as a separate police district – just so they say. What I really took the floor was from the Right about the transmission of our proposal that the U.S. Police should be closed and the crew returned to the police districts. I can respond to the request for it to be submitted to the Government. I understand that other parties too want the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e807	I don't have the habit of abusing Storting's pulpit. I'm in my last period at Stortinget, and one is actually discussing here in the hall a matter that struck my county. It is a matter that, in many ways, determines the area I have been able to deal with during this four-year period and was happy to follow and participate in the influence. What makes me take the word is the location in Sogn and Fjordane. I have clearly noted the agitation that has been used in relation to the Government's proposal. It has come most strongly from officials who have had the opportunity to influence the proposal before it came to the Storting – where one did not get it. I wonder that Stortinget knows it very well, and that in many ways it will be fully honoured. The second thing I wanted to point out is that my county is divided by fjords. It has a geography that makes it difficult to communicate. In view of the fact that we are going to place the police administration in the western part of Norway, saying that it will give us a better administration geographically and also a more efficient and rational administration, I have trouble seeing with Florø. In addition, we've got a whole new police station in Sogndal that meets all the requirements. They have a lease term of 27 years. In Florø, there is a locality no longer than until 2004. I've been in both places, and I can with my hands on my heart say that I know where the police are going to have locations that meet today's demands on the working environment. The other thing that has been said here in Stortinget is that Sogndal doesn't have an operating watch centre. It's a big lie, because they do. They have the best technological equipment today, and it doesn't measure with Florø, unfortunately. So I'm actually calling on, at the very least of my time here in Stortinget, to take police and geographical care, so that we get a police administration in Sogn and Fjordane that meets the requirements of closeness to the court, closeness to prison and closeness to other authorities, and a geographical location that makes it an effective court.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e829	The President assumes that we should then be ready for voting on case No. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e836	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party Proposal No. 4, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang proposal No. 5, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6, by Inger Stolt-Nielsen, proposal No. 7, by Jørn L. Stang on behalf of Vidar Kleppe and himself proposal No. 8, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included on page 26 of the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. Sir. Simonsen will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e865	Just a short explanation of vote, or a vote recommendation, it's better to call these posts. In order to avoid any doubt, I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of proposal No. 3, which is from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party, as well as for the II and III of the position. With regard to the proposals submitted this morning, I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of proposal No. 7, from the representative Jørn L. Stang, who is in line with the programme of the Progress Party for the current ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e874	I do not know whether the President was prepared to explain the situation with regard to the proposals presented in the Chamber. I understood that some of them would be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e879	So the president hasn't gone this far since the explanations of vote streamed in large quantities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e882	But then I can just pre-empt it and say that we are in any case voting against all the minority proposals that have been put forward here. So when it comes to setting II and III, we have alternative minority suggestions, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e889	Then that part of the hall is calmed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e892	The left is not represented in the committee, but will vote as follows: we will vote against proposal No. 1 by the Workers' Party, on proposal No. 2, which goes on Hardanger, and of course for the minority proposals made on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and others under the proposals 3, 4 and 5. We will vote in favour of the second vote and against the third vote. As far as the other proposals are concerned, we will be voting against the proposal by Inger Stolt-Nielsen and for the proposal by the Socialist Left on localisation in Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e897	I recommend the SV's group to vote against proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party, but vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. Secondly, to vote in favour of proposal No. 3, by the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Advance Party, for proposal No. 4, by the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang, and for proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, in addition to voting in favour of the Committee's recommendations I and II, but against III. As regards the proposals submitted, the recommendation is that SV opposes proposal No. 7, by representatives Jørn L. Stang and Vidar Kleppe. Otherwise, I guess it'll be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e904	Very briefly, I recommend that the Honourable Members vote for both I, II and III of the Committee's recommendation and for the minority proposal that is in line with the opinion of the Right Minority in the vote, namely proposal No. 8 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e909	Since this has become an exercise where it is important that everyone participates, as I understand it, we also had to agree to this explanation of vote – although it should be unnecessary. Of course, we're going to support all of our minority proposals. We will vote subsidiaryly in relation to II and III in the Committee's recommendation, and also in relation to the proposals No. 1 and No 2, from the Workers' Party, where our group is set free. That means there's no tied arrangement in this respect. We meet the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e916	So does the President. The President would point out that everyone who has a need to clarify their vote should, of course, have an opportunity to do so. Proposal No. 6. by Mr Inger Stolt-Nielsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to ask the Ministry to make the police recommendations from Haugaland and Hardanger Police Districts and the infrastructure conditions in the area at the basis of its advice to the municipalities concerned in Hardanger.’ The same applies to proposal No. 7 from the representatives of Mr L. Stang and Mr Kleppe, who have also been converted into a draft text. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that the U.S. Police be closed and the team returned to the police districts.’ The President proposed that the proposals should be dealt with as follows: 6 and 7 are transmitted to the Government without any responsibilities. – It is considered biphasic. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to locate the police district management in Helgeland to Mo in Rana’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e945	We shall then vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The President has been given the impression through the debate that there is a desire to vote separately on proposal No. 5 letter a. Harald T. Nesvik – for explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e950	I would also ask that point (c) of proposal No. 5 gets wrestled over separately, so we get to see who wants to vote for the maintenance of More and Romesdal's three police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e955	On the basis of the dialect, it was assumed by the President. [[laughs in the hall]] We are then going to vote on proposal No. 5 a, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the following change in the police division in relation to St.meld. [[(2000-2001):]] No 22 (a) In Hordaland County, two police districts are established by maintaining unaltered Hardanger police districts, while other police districts are merged into Hordaland police districts.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e975	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 letter c, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘(c) In the More and Romesdal counties, current districts are maintained with three police districts.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e990	It is then voted over the rest of proposal No. 5, the letters b, d, e and f. The proposal reads as follows: ‘(b) In the Sogn and Fjordane counties, the current district division is maintained with two police districts. (e) The current Senja and Narvik police districts are merged with the location of the police district management in Harstad.f) Vadsø police district is maintained with the addition of the current Vardø police district.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1014	We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The President assumes that this proposal is also desired split up in separate votes. - It's nodding. There is a vote on proposal No. 4 (a), from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the following changes to the police division in relation to St.meld. [[(2000-2001):]] No 22 (a) Held police districts are maintained and assigned to the municipalities of Marker and Rømskog.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1034	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4 b, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘(b) Kongswinger Police District is maintained unchanged’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1049	We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the following changes to the police division in relation to St.meld. [[(2000-2001):]] No 22 (a) The current division of districts into the Nord-Trøndelag is maintained with two police districts. Stjørdal and Meråker are maintained in the Intrendelag Police Chamber.b) In Telemark County, two police districts are established.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1070	Two minority proposals from the Workers' Party remain, and these will be voted on as an alternative to the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1096	There is an alternative proposal here, and it is proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to locate the police district management in Sogn and Fjordane to the municipality of Sogndal.’ The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the suspension, while the Centre Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1120	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and it is proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess future police district membership of the municipalities of Ullensvang, Kvinnherad, Odda, Eidfjord and Jondal in consultation with them.’ The central party has announced subsidiary support for the suspension, while the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1136	The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time. 1 a.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1148	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1157	This is the second major structural organisation issue we have to deal with today. The government’s proposals include: the fact that the case is to be brought out of the courts, that it is to be sent to the Staten Kartsverk with the basis of the 18 county offices of the Kartsverk, and, subsequently, any further centralisation. It turned out as we discussed the matter, that this was not the case, so that the 18 county offices could become the final solution. Furthermore, the Government has proposed to go from 87 courts to 63 and from 92 courts of first instance to 65. These two themes have become the big ones along the way, these are the ones that have been discussed. There has been a huge amount of access from organisations, municipalities, regional councils, etc. There are also some other more administrative fields mentioned in the Communication, and common to all those areas is that there is full agreement on the way the Government wants to deal with these issues. Therefore, it is unnecessary for me to comment on these more closely here today. Then to the luminosity. The treatment now shows that at the moment there is no majority in favour of the Government's proposal to add it to the State cart. But I am glad that the Labour Party has brought with it Right to say that the clarification of matters does not belong to the core tasks of the court. The primary task of the Court of Justice is and will become a judicial activity. This, in turn, refers to a type of exercise of authority which is not necessarily necessary to be resolved by the courts, and there is no direct link between the briefing tasks and the other tasks of the court. Together with the Right, we note that in the future, the questioning will be taken out of the courts, and we ask the Ministry to investigate more closely the different options that exist, concreteise them, and that the outcome of these assessments will be presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. In 1994-95 it was approx. 300 people working in Norwegian courts. Norwegian Property Information AS was committed to modernising this work. The result of this has been very good. Today, the service is fast, safe and good, and today, 195 years' worth of work is needed by the various courts to do this work. By further exploiting the technological possibilities – the lighting of things is a task such as: is well equipped for the use of electronic document exchange – it is assumed that this work can be carried out at the base of 50 years’ work. This increase in efficiency, which is also part of the modernisation of the public sector, will be impossible to take out if the case is still to be brought before the individual Courts of First Instance. According to the government model, we will have one-off investments of approx. Thirty million. kr for the conversion of the object lighting. The proposed structural changes and conversion costs are calculated for approx. Twenty-four million. kr. However, once these have been completed, we will have significantly reduced operating costs. Only for the lighting of things is a saving of approx. 30 - 40 million. kr per. years. The Court of Justice's deliberations are now, of course, linked to the uncertainty of the date of implementation and to the manner in which the change in structure adopted can be carried out. The needs for localisation in the communication are calculated on the basis of the fact that the case is out of court, and therefore it is very important that we get the necessary clarification about the case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case case. A very important feature of the mapping model is that the mapping is intended for the role of so-called central matrix authority and the municipalities as the local food authority, i.e. the responsibility for all the different property registers existing outside the base book. By also adding things under this hat we will get all the property registration and information on one hand, directed through the 18 county offices with direct channels to the 435 municipalities, i.e. a more decentralised system than we have today. In municipalities, these tasks may be linked to, for example: the public service offices or to another municipal office where it would have to be more appropriate. In this context, citizens will be able to obtain guidance on legislation and practices in the field of information on matters and oral information on the base book, along with all other property information. The main users of the directory service are the so-called professional users, and they will be very well served with a non-judicial system, which is clearly stated by both the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation and the Savings Bank Association. The main and primary task of the Courts is, as I was in the past, the judicial activity. They shall ensure the necessary security for the citizens and ensure the legal certainty of the individual. The courts must be available and have the necessary confidence in the population, and matters must be decided within a reasonable and defined time-frame. An innovation within the proposed structure is a new court to serve the five municipalities of Finnmark, which constitute the administrative area for Sami languages. Such a court will be very important for the development of a Sami legal terminology. There is also a need for increased competence in Sami practices and traditions in the courts. However, I would like to stress that this court should be an ordinary court to serve all the inhabitants of the relevant municipalities. The Ministry of Justice's starting point is that the courts should have at least four jurisdictions, one or two of which shall have jurisdiction. However, in our long-term country, geography and distances are such that the number of small courts, i.e. courts with less than four jurisdictions still have to be relatively high. The Government has received the support of the majority of the Committee for approx. the number of courts proposed. The result has become one more court, namely Halden District Court. And that's to the extent that it's based on the competence of the Halden Court of Justice in the field of tolls. Centre parties have largely solved all problem areas by maintaining more districts, i.e. six more than in the setting. If we go to this step, the very structure and purpose of the message is gone. We have much less to do in this message than in the previous case. The proposal is from 92 single courts to 65, which is now 66. The Government’s exit criteria for what the future court structure will be based on are the size of the courts, travel time to the courts, consistency between the court structure and changes in the pattern of employment and commuting, as well as the release of resources and the organisation of future investments. As mentioned earlier, this last point has now been made difficult as long as the proceedings are in the courts. To some extent, other criteria also need to be introduced. It is important that the same county, or police district, be able to deal with one and the same court. It is also important for the Ministry to follow closely if it appears that some courts are not appropriate in relation to the new police districts, which were dealt with in the previous case, so that any necessary adjustments may be made. As far as possible, it is also right to emphasise the local authorities' own wishes for a court relationship. In addition to the points made by the department itself, the Committee has also mentioned special areas where we recommend the Ministry to follow the wishes of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1213	The government's proposal for a new court structure leads to a reduction from 87 to 63 courts and from 92 to 65 courts of first instance. The Christian People's Party proposes to maintain seven courts of first instance, i.e. to retain 72 courts. The Christian People's Party wants a decentralised court system and a user-focused approach to the court structure. Important criteria for our assessments have therefore been availability, quality and cost to users. In the Communication, the focus is on judges and their professional environment. The investigation showed that large and so-called effective and reindeer courts were the best, which is also the main basis of the notification. Public services should be good for the population. The courts shall be a proper tool for conflict resolution in the broadest sense for all users, and must be co-operative with society at large. Equally important is the conflict prevention task of most people being able to carry out legal services. It is agreed that the courts should have a certain size in order to take care of the professional part and to meet the needs of sickness and leave. The Christian People's Party has noticed that if the majority proposal in the Structural Committee had been followed, the number of convictions would be 50, i.e. 13 judgments less than the Government's proposals. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has noted that among the criteria, travel time to the courts has been included, together with the minimum size of the courts and an overall assessment, where both the needs of staff in the case of judges and civil servants have been given weight. The outcome of this is probably the 13 in relation to what the structural committee has come up with, and it's positive. However, the Christian People's Party has come to maintain more courts than the Government. The Christian People’s Party will claim that small courts can also be good courts. With today’s and tomorrow’s technologies, empowerment and cooperation with other courts will be fully possible and should be further developed. In fact, it is claimed that the large courts are not as effective as the small ones, or – we can say either – less, and that is justified, among other things. with local knowledge and the possibility of rapid changes, as well as where there is little and a transparent environment, there is little possibility of disclaimer, leading to the fastest possible procedure. Lawyers tend to move to the courts, as they rely on public mandates to provide an adequate basis for nutrition. The Christian People's Party believes that lawyers in the community are positive for legal certainty. It is easier to contact them then, and the local skills of the lawyers are also a strength. The effect of the closure of courts may be less or no lawyer can provide assistance to a legal aid seeker in a reasonably close manner. The threshold for counselling is higher when the user has to travel far. The Christian People's Party has also noticed the concern of those who do not want a church wedding. They feel that there will be a long journey distance for the marriage partner and thus a centralisation of these services. Tingling is difficult in legal terms, while being very important for individuals and businesses. It includes values of several hundred million dollars a year, and the legal aspects of things clearing are regulated in a number of laws, approximately. 30 promises in total. Although many cases are relatively simple, there is a need for good legal skills in difficult cases. The Tinglysing Register currently has legal credibility and full trust. It's important to keep going. The State is liable for any financial loss caused by a settlement error on the so-called objective basis, i.e.: without regard to whether the disclosure authority can be loaded for the failure. This distinguishes the stock list from the other real estate registers. Discharge, led by judges present at each Dispute Resolution Office, will continue to be a good quality assurance. We find no equivalent elsewhere, and the proposals for changes that were present in the communication were not well enough established to give their support to, not even secondary. The majority want an investigation. In this context, the Christian People's Party has specifically asked that the Hardanger Register and a register associated with the State's mapping work be investigated, as the two options have been included in the debate now. The information has been most discussed in the message, which is also reflected in the notes. There is a consensus that the proceedings should continue to lie in the courts, but there is a disagreement about the duration of the case and its justification. Christian People's Party indicates that today's system has existed since the Law of Things came in 1857. There is considerable competence in this area in all courts, and the system works very well, as the consultation opinions also confirm. There is significant guidance activity for both the general public and professional users. The message assumes that it is divided by approx. 10 pst. Private and approx. 90 pst. professional users, while the officials involved in the clearing of things assume that the distribution is approximately. 40 pst. private and 60 pst. professional users. Of that, you can probably draw the conclusion that it varies from place to place, and that there is a greater percentage of private submission of documents to property clearing in the districts than in the larger cities. It turns out to be wrong at 30-40 pst. of the documents submitted, including those of professional users. This implies the need for advice and assistance to users. The possibility of personal presence is essential for many. The Christian People's Party has chosen to write a synopsis instead of justifying each of the seven courts we have proposed to maintain. That's because we're not going to get hurt to forget important arguments, because it's an overall assessment that underlies. As regards the proposal to maintain Halden, an overall committee has joined it. In doing so, I take up the proposals from the minority concerning the rights of property to Jären, Orkdal, Nordfjord, Voss, Kragerø and Hadeland and Land.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1247	The representative Wisløff Nilssen has taken up the proposals she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1250	ed the case of the police districts that we discussed earlier today, and the examination of this communication on the Courts of First Instance has taken important steps towards improving criminal justice in these two important areas. A good and developing professional environment is needed. It is understandable that the cities that lose their traditional sorenish writing are responding, and therefore it is good that we have received this broad review in the committee. I would like to refer mainly to the report from the rapporteur and just mention briefly a few controversial sorenian writings. I would first like to mention the discussion around Larvik and Sandefjord, where the Structural Committee has proposed Larvik as the place, while the department is in favour of Sandefjord, on the grounds that there would be a possibility of merging with an extension of the existing premises. The municipality of Larvik has written a letter to the department on 4 May this year, where they claim that what is in the message is wrong and that, on the contrary, it will be 400,000 kroner cheaper with localization in Larvik than in Sandefjord. Nevertheless, when we maintain the Sandefjord proposal, it is an expression that we take it as a matter of course that the department believes that it is their calculation that is the right one. I'd like the Council of State to confirm it from the pulpit. With regard to the situation in Farsund, we also have a note with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, where we point out that the police in West Agder are concerned about the travel time to the court in Farsund, and that there are arguments for Lwgal. We have asked the Department to assess developments in travel time for the police as police and judicial reform takes place and, if necessary, to propose any changes after an evaluation period. Otherwise, I am particularly pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of maintaining the Halden court, with just arguments referring to the special competence of Halden in combating different forms of border crime, that Halden, although not mentioned, also has good training in implementing the Schengen Agreement in its police district. The exact same arguments also apply to Kongswinger. When we haven't written anything about it, it's because Kongswinger hasn't been suggested at any time. I'm going to use the rest of my post to talk about things lighting. From the Right, we believe that technological developments in the future will give completely different and more effective methods of doing things for users. The availability and safety of users must and must be given decisive importance. On the right, the Structural Committee’s conclusion that a central, country-wide directory of findings should be established in a central database that replaces the local databases is supported. We have also noticed that the main organisation of the financial industry and the Savings Bank Association want a new and nationwide directory of things. The Tingling service is important for the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings or property. Very often, bankers and real estate agents will be a natural asset clearing supporter, and the aim should be to create a central register/database, combined with a very decentralised structure to perform the object intelligence service itself. A decentralised structure, in which users contact their local bank, broker or lawyer for the provision of asset clearing services, is a future solution that should be explored further. On the right, the county network of the state agency with 18 local offices does not represent a sufficiently decentralised solution and notes that a possible model for a decentralised municipal service offer is not in any way completed. We have also noticed that the municipalities themselves, represented by the Municipal Councils' Central Associations, want matters to remain in the Courts of First Instance. The right would stress that the municipal offices dealing with property, namely the planning and building offices, very often have a long response time to the public, large delays and understaffing in relation to the tasks. Therefore, we are more than sceptical about transferring more service tasks to such municipal authorities without this being carefully investigated and it is a clear commitment that there is capacity to provide information to the public during the day. Everything else will weaken the audience's offer in relation to today's service offer in the Courts of First Instance. It is quite natural that map information from the Staten Kartverk is technologically linked to the object lighting documents, so that the audience can easily and collectively access maps and documents. However, this can be arranged by linking different registers and should be technologically possible irrespective of where a central register is located or by which decentralised service is served to the public. In this context, I refer to proposals from the Right and the Advance Party in the last year’s budgetary positions on the privatisation of the State’s mapping works and in all cases believe that such privatisation of the Cartwork’s competitive services and the location of the Cartwork to a more natural department than the Ministry of the Environment should be carried out before more public tasks are assigned to the Cartwork. We have noticed that Norwegian Property Information, which is currently responsible for all operations and the provision of information to users from the materialisation base book and the GAB register in Norway, believes that the case-handling should remain primarily in the courts. The arguments used are low risk, stability and sourcing competence. In this context, we cannot see that the Government's proposal for alternative solutions is sufficiently well-established, but we will emphasise that future technological opportunities will open up far more models than the mapping model that has been explored. In such a future project, we will refer in particular to the Hardanger Register, which was launched in 1997, handed over the Ministry of Justice in 1999 and mentioned in the communication. A central directory/substance clearing database can technologically be located anywhere, and Ullensvang in Hardanger will be a good location option. We support the fact that a future object lighting model is committed to localising the central register of Ullensvang in Hardanger, and we ask in the settings of the Government to continue working on this. In principle, we agree with the Government that the management of a case-handling register is outside the Court’s primary task as a judge and has no clear link with the Court’s other functions. In the long term, therefore, we will not oppose the transfer of information from the courts, as long as the interest of the audience is taken care of. This calls for day-to-day responses and for public service to be provided by private actors with a high level of accessibility. Furthermore, a technological solution for a central register with possible links to other relevant registers must be sufficiently developed before such a transfer can be made. The right will, until such solutions are presented, recommend that the hearing be retained in the Courts of First Instance as at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1286	In order to ensure a more efficient and rational public sector into the new century, no sectors can be excluded. It is also necessary for the courts to be assessed in the light of contemporary technology and requirements for rational solutions. Therefore, there are no parties that are opposed to the dramatic reduction in the number of sour write strips that are now being proposed. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party want to keep eight more courts than the other parties. That also means that these parties are involved in most of the closures and contractions. The Ministry has wanted to remove the hearing from the courts, so that we get a clean system in which the courts perform judicial functions under the new administration of the courts, while the administrative tasks are being removed. It seems reasonable in many ways, and in the long term it should be explored how to establish a separate central directory. For the time being, however, it should be possible for the hearing to take place in the courts. Today’s tasks are carried out in a fast and efficient way, which has impressed the audience. Norwegian Property information is then also in order to keep the facts in the courts and argue with low risk and high stability. However, when the Ministry returns to Stortinget with a possible schedule for its own directory, it should be considered seriously. If it were to be a future solution, I would remind you that there is already a proposal for a register located in Hardanger. I have always thought that positive initiatives should be rewarded, and I believe that a solution in Hardanger will therefore remain strong when the decision is to be taken once in the future. The Party supports mainly the Ministry's proposals regarding the courts to be retained and the ones to be closed. We do not want to set up a new court in the Sami core areas of Finnmark. When a number of courts in the country have to be closed, it seems strange to set up a new court in our northernmost state. The Bryne Court is one of the few proposed but to be retained. The Court of Justice has an appropriate size, it is relocated to appropriate premises and has three modern courts that we need. In addition, it is co-located with the bilge man’s seat – in an appropriate way for both – and is located in a growing area. It is incomprehensible that such a court is being proposed. In recent times, the Progress Party has received strong requests and good arguments from our counties in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane to keep the courts in Voss and Nordfjordeid. Although this is not indicated in the vote, the Progress Party will vote to maintain these two courts. I ask the President to note that in practice it means that we must split the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, and that the Progress Party will vote for points b and c. In sum, this means that the Progress Party proposes one court more than the Ministry. It should be to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1305	The background for St. Meld. No 23 for 2000-2001 on the Courts at first instance was well described by the rapporteur. I will therefore limit myself to commenting on a couple of key issues as well as taking up two jurisdictions in particular, namely Halden and Kongsberg. There is an interesting common feature for two of the issues raised by the Stortinget today. The Labour Party and the Right – largely with the support of the Progress Party – are united in the majority comments on bringing together police and judicial districts. The minority in this hall consists of the center sections. There is reason to ask which district construction is supported by the Workers' Party. An adjustment to the current court structure is necessary in the view of the Centre Party, but the centralisation to which the Workers' Party has provided goes too far and lacks sufficient time to justify it. There are good reasons to maintain the sorencies in Orkdal, in Nordfjord, on Voss, on Jären, in Kragerø, and on Hadeland and Land. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party is supported by the Right and the Advance Party to terminate these posts as well. Luckily, the Labour Party Government suffers defeat in relation to the question of Halden's sorenicism. Even the representatives of the Workers' Party are opposed to the Government's proposals at this point. Opposed — and under strong pressure — the Workers’ Party was joined by an already established majority to maintain the Halden Sorenschriftrebette. It was just supposed to be missing. With the special competence that Holden has acquired in the field of tolls, it would be totally hopeless to put down this sorren writing burden. There is, however, no reason to cry out for the majority in this Chamber who today decide to drop Kongsberg's sorenschriftrebette. The centre party alone is about wanting to maintain what has become one of the country's most effective sore write strips. The so-called Structural Committee (NOO 1999:22) saw no reason to drop this office either, rather on the contrary. I also have to remember that it was only three years since the Ministry of Justice was quite clear in its view that Kongsberg was to be maintained. The central party is of the clear opinion that cities of the size of Kongsberg should have their own courts. Today, the government also suffers from the failure of the question of whether the proceedings should be transferred to the courts. The Workers' Party wanted to transfer the information to the Staten Kartverk and felt that this would take account of the public interest. Fortunately, they were alone in saying that, because the Staten Kartverk currently has no professional competence in this area, and was considered by the Structural Committee to be out-of-date in order to manage a central register. The system of hearing cases in the courts is working very well today. There is significant guidance activity both for most people and for professional users. Tinglysing also contributes to maintaining a good judicial structure in the districts. Finally, I would like to draw out the Workers' Party's comments in the option page 4, first column. It is interesting to note that the members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party use information technology as an argument for centralisation. This should be noticed by people in District Norway. The centre party believes that information technology needs to be used to promote decentralisation. It is also in line with what is happening in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1324	In our opinion, the proposal for a new court structure implies centralisation. The reason seems to be that it is better with larger courts with a larger collegial environment. Does it mean, then, that small courts are dubious about professional standards? I think that the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen refuted this claim, but it seems that this is the thinking when emphasis is placed on large courts. I would also like to remind you that the Norwegian courts are an agency with great public confidence. Against the principle of a wider professional environment there is another important principle, namely that those who have committed a criminal act should be judged by equals. Whoever is to judge or assist must be part of a ‘we here’ and not a ‘those there’. The courts shall be an appropriate tool for resolving conflicts and that task shall be best done by persons known to the community. Accessibility and confidence in the population are key values and important values. One consequence of centralisation is that both the advice threshold is higher when the user has to travel far, and, as Åse Wisløff Nilssen also explained, lawyers are likely to move where the courts are. Both parts mean a weakening of the community. Georg Apenes wrote in a thought - provoking article in the Evening Post that when we look at the crime scene, there may be a need for more and not fewer courts. So drastic we should not be, but SV supports the proposals of the centre parties, which are the best proposals for what we stand for. So to an important topic in this case, that's where things are going to be. We believe that there are good reasons why they should remain in the courts, but we take note that the case is sent back to the Government for review. If the tasks are to be located in one place, it is important for us that the Hardanger Register is investigated. There is no need to add these tasks to the Staten Kartverk, which today does not have the necessary professional competence to deal with this. The structure selection said: ‘In addition, with today’s technological possibilities, such a body may be located anywhere in the country.’...’With a nation-wide object intelligence body with which users can communicate by mail, telephone, fax and after each electronic document exchange, there is no need in itself to place the object lighting body in central lines.’ On this basis, the Hardanger region has worked seriously and with great thoroughness and has submitted a proposal for a State directory. This will provide an area of negative population development that needs a lift-up of valuable skills jobs. Hardanger has a strong IT environment. Both this and the experience of the sorenty writing staff mean that the tasks will be handled properly. The Hardanger Register has full cross-political support in the Hordaland County Municipality, and I encourage this to be seriously further worked on. In a comment in the setting, the central parties address the issue of the organisation of the conflict councils. The Councils of Conflict need to be further developed and used more actively – that is the position of the SV. They must still have a local anchorage, and they must have a neutral role. Government organization is hardly the answer. Therefore, we agree that alternatives other than state acquisitions should be explored. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1 by the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the representative, Mr Stang, and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Centerparity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1350	In relation to the position on which it was based, which proposed to reduce the number of courts in the first instance more than that contained in the Government's proposal, I believe that the Government has chosen here to balance the ideal requirement of how many professionals it should be in a court of law, against the right of the court in the local environment. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Left, I want to do the same thing as I understand that representatives from the Central Parity and the Christian People's Party do, and say that if you decide now to take the facts out of the courts, it is my claim that between 10 and 15 of the courts proposed by the Government will fall within a short time, because you can risk confusion in the environment and a lack of recruitment. My concern is that the government was really going to go further, but then you didn't, you maintained a number of the small courts. But at the moment you go to the grip of removing the lighting of things, I think they fall. That is why it is good that a minority in the Committee will keep the case filed in the Courts of First Instance, and that in any case a majority will not do anything to clarify matters until further investigation has been made. This information is in practice a form of an easily accessible State Service Office. Now, if you want to explore more options, I agree with those who, in their comments in the committee setting, among other things. Right, pointed to the Hardanger Register as an interesting solution to the further investigation path. I fully support it. As far as the number of courts is concerned, it has an interesting logic. If you go across the map of Norway, you could say that there have actually been some exceptions to the ideal for the number of judges and the population. The places where you've essentially taken the least of the smallest units are in the north. It starts to swirl a little when you get to the West and around the coast. There it looks like in this setting, as was also done in the one that was referred to in the case of the police, has not taken enough account of the fact that there are courts that should have been there in the first instance, in order to complement the logic that has actually been implemented in other parts of the country. I feel on behalf of the Left that proposal 1, promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the representative Stang, on Bryne, and proposal 2, by the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in relation to Orkdal, Nordfjord, Voss, Kragerø, Hadeland and Land, are proposals that in practice do nothing but complete the logic that the Government's proposal has taken with it in other parts of the country. By including these proposals, I believe that this logic is completed both in relation to the number of judges and in relation to the population. I think it is right to include this when you have not chosen to go to work as strongly as in the investigation that was originally in place. The left is therefore voting in favour of both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2 as they exist from the minority in this case. So in terms of what you're going to get back to, you're going to have plenty of opportunity to do that. I find that even though the Left has the principle view of the clearing of things that I have now expressed, a majority wants this to be further investigated, and that it comes back as a matter to the Stortinget. Some closing remarks: there is every reason to sympathise with judges for a wide range of professional environments. But there's also another reason that's basically important, and that's to be able to meet the court and equals and equals in an environment where you belong. Norway is like a country so that you can't just draw a line after a ruler, one must weigh between it being a broad professional environment, and the fact that people can feel that this is the place we have to settle between us in one way or another in relation to legislation. It's a balance that's important. I think the government has done a good job of balancing this, but it lacks completion, and that is why I see the proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have promoted, and which the Left supports, are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1368	The time around the millennium I think will remain as the time of the reforms in the justice sector, and the reforms are absolutely necessary, too much – most of it – has remained silent over hundreds of years in this sector. This applies to the law, to the organisation, and to principles. But society has not remained silent at the same time, nor has developments in the justice sector, despite the fact that the framework has been quite the same. It had to be a labor party government to trigger the changes that we see now. It had to be a labor party government to be able to produce the many different proposals, many of which were necessary in relation to social development. The known and existing are safe, but we cannot meet tomorrow's challenges with the farm day's arrangement. Changes are unsafe. There is no phase response, and we'll see the results later. Therefore, decisions and decisions are not always simple, but they must nevertheless be made and, fortunately, they are able to propose to the Labour Party. As we know, we have adopted the Police Directorate, we have just adopted new police districts today, we have recently adopted a completely new law on the enforcement of penalties, with completely new principles, and, in the case of the Court, the third paragraph of the justice sector, we are in the process of looking at the administration of the Court – we are going to deal with the matter next week – where we are going through fundamental issues to ensure quality and independence in the Court of Justice. In addition, a selection has been set up that looks at the civil tasks, to look at the almost hundred-year-old legislation in that area of the court, and now, therefore, the Court of First Instance, the Lord's Court and the City Court, the one that most of us know and use, and that has the large share of cases. And that's exactly why it's so important that it works well. We can certainly say that it has major challenges, both in terms of the number of tasks and the content of the judicial activity. It is good that there is now a greater commitment to the clean-up of the main task here, namely the judiciary and conflict resolution activities. It shall be exciting to see the results of the judicial mediation when it is likely to be extended. For reasons of legal certainty and non-discrimination, it is important that the courts remain the central body of conflict resolution in our society. It requires service, it requires public kindness, and fortunately, the availability to the courts today is also greater after this reform than it was for a few years ago, because technology makes few people face up to it in person. The courts also have a time requirement, to get the case out of the world quickly. For criminal cases, the obvious explanation is that the effect is greater, the faster the judgment comes, and for civil cases because one depends on getting the decision quickly in order to meet the competition from other private solutions. The content of these tasks is becoming increasingly complicated. International law is increasingly in place, and matters are becoming increasingly complicated. The lawyers, the actors in the courtroom, specialize, and then it may be tempting for the court and the judges to do the same. But there is full agreement that it is very important that the judges continue to be generalists. Legal areas need to be viewed in a coherent way, to ensure a comprehensive assessment and to ensure equality of law, even across jurisdictions. That judge is a specialist, is the tool, the law, and then the parties get to serve the special arguments – the expertise gets from more use of experts and professionals. The Committee therefore agrees that there should be very good grounds for continuing specialised courts and not least for setting up new ones. But in some places there are many of one type of cases that make the court very good and perhaps specialist in one type of case, but it is not a special court anyway. For example, it will. will apply to the court which we establish in Inner Finnmark. There's a lot of sams living there. Samer today uses the court to a lesser extent than others, because trust is not the same. There are language barriers, cultural barriers, and then it's important to have a court that someone knows understands you. Now I'm not going to compare the Eastern folds with the indigenous people of Finnmark, but also in Halden Police District, the court has become a specialist in one area, namely border crime. That's why it could be... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1383	Time is up, and State Council Hanne Harlem gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1386	... reason for maintaining that court, and also because Halden has been a city with shopping city rights since the 1600s.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1391	The President requests that the representative respect the speaking time set.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1394	This year, the Government has presented several proposals which together constitute a significant reform of the judicial system in Norway. The aim is to enable the courts to carry out their core tasks in the best possible way. This must be done in such a way as to satisfy the needs of the courts for independence of administration. Two key elements of this reform are addressed in the St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001, the Court of First Instance in the future. Real estate information is a management task. There is no direct link between the briefing tasks and the other tasks of the courts. There are historical reasons why the facts lie in the courts. The Government has therefore proposed that the hearing be removed from the courts, so that the courts concentrate on their core tasks, the judicial activity. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee agrees with the assessment that the courts should concentrate primarily on judicial activities and that the proceedings should in the long term be taken out of the courts, but based on a further investigation. The proposal for a greater degree of clean-up of judicial functions can also be seen in the context of another important reform proposal that is not the subject of debate here today: the central judicial administration has been proposed to separate itself from the Ministry of Justice and given considerable autonomy under the direction of its own administration. Such organisation of the central administration of the courts is well in line with a reduction in the responsibility of the courts for extensive administrative tasks. It has been the government's clear starting point that hearings outside the courts must be conducted in at least the same good way as today, so that the audience is offered at least as well as before. The illustrative tasks are being carried out today in an excellent manner in the courts. Therefore, the background to the proposal does not give rise to any criticism of the handling of the task by the courts. However, in addition to the principal reason I mentioned first, we are facing a development that requires a service offer other than today. Within a few years, the dominant part of object information documents will be submitted electronically. Moreover, it has been essential for the Government to be able to offer the best possible offer to the public. The aim has been to provide the user with all necessary information in connection with real estate at the same time, from the same location. It is correct, as the representative Dørum said earlier, that there is good and good information about the facts from the court, the problem for the public is that there is only information on matters from the courts, not other information related to the same property. That is why the Government has proposed that in the future, the State’s mapping works take over responsibility for the clearing of things. The state’s mapping system is already responsible for the GAB register and is proposed as a future food agency in Norway. In addition, the State's mapping works work has very close cooperation with all the municipalities of the country, which manages a third essential type of information for users, namely how municipal plans and restrictions affect the properties. I have noticed that the majority of the Judicial Committee needs further information and clarification of the consequences of different ways of resolving cases outside the courts. The government has therefore been asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate form as soon as possible with such assessments. For the staff of the courts, there has been a long period of uncertainty about facts-finding tasks — from a reduction in the Structural Committee in the autumn of 1997 to the present day. It is therefore desirable to have a decision as soon as possible as to who will be responsible for this in the future. I therefore aim to ensure that the Government can provide the necessary additional investigations by the end of the year. A central point would then be to compare a partially decentralised model, as proposed, with full centralisation in one recording unit. For all alternatives, the needs of users shall be central. A rapid clarification of the issue is also desirable for progress in bringing together courts, which is another essential aspect of the reform. A reduction in the number of small courts is desirable. The aim is for the courts to have a broad professional environment and to be organised in such a way that they can perform their tasks by their own means. The government’s proposal means that the number of cases is reduced from 87 to 63, and that the number of courts with only one jurisdiction is reduced. I would like to stress, since it was mentioned earlier in the debate, that the proposal made the view that small courts were professionally worse, that the government has not assumed that small courts are professionally worse than larger, but we have, on the other hand, stressed vulnerability, recruitment and the elements I mentioned earlier. At the same time, however, the government has been concerned that the travel distance of the public to the courts should not be too long. With our country's geographical and scattered population, there will therefore be a need to maintain many courts that are less than what is desirable in view of the more professional needs of the courts. And that's also why the government has proposed far more courts maintained than the Structural Committee originally proposed. The proposal put forward by the Government has tried to satisfy all the concerns and balance them against each other as far as possible. I also need to comment on the suggestion that the government really wanted to go further, and that when the facts were out of court, more courts should be laid down. I would like to remind you that in the government’s big message, the proposal went on to take the facts out of the courts and the structure we actually proposed. There was a clear link between the proposal to take the facts out, and the number of courts we proposed maintained for the future. So there's no basis for the suggestion that you take the facts out of the court, so actually the next round is to put down more courts. I have noticed that the majority of the Judicial Committee substantially shares the Government's view of the future structure at first instance. The Committee proposes the adjustment of the nationality of the courts in the case of certain municipalities. It is proposed that the number of judgments should be 64 instead of 63, by maintaining the Halden Zorenschrifbete. It is also proposed that the Court of Lower Buskerud be added to Hokksund instead of to Kongsberg. I am pleased that it has been possible to reach such a large political consensus on the court structure. I have mentioned that the government before Christmas is aiming to come back to Stortinget with a detailed investigation into the lighting of things. Under the law, it is the King who has the power to determine the structure of the courts. This is firm. However, there is tradition that the Government is listening to the Storting on this issue. Based on the signals now given by Stortingen during the treatment of St.meld. No 23 on the Courts of First Instance, the Government will implement the individual amendments by kgl. Resolution. As I mentioned, the progress of structural changes will be influenced somewhat by the decision on the clearing of matters. In some cases, merging courts involves investing in new premises. Progress is therefore partly dependent on the budgetary situation. In any case, we will pay great attention to the fact that further work is done in close cooperation with the individual courts and employees. In a democratic society, there is a fundamental premise that there is a good balance between the three state powers: the legislator, the executive and the judge. I see it as very positive that there is consensus on important issues relating to the organisation of the courts, and a great deal of understanding that the courts must be able to carry out their important social tasks in the best possible way. Once the reforms have been implemented, we will have courts with even higher quality and efficiency than today. I was asked a question by the representative Hernæs when it came to Larvik. There has been a correspondence between the Ministry of Justice and the municipality of Larvik and, in part, the sorenist in Larvik, and so far the department has found no reason to believe anything other than what we have meant in the big message presented. However, with regard to the last letter from the rapporteur in Larvik, dated 4 May, it has not been registered with the Ministry of Justice's judicial department and has therefore not gone through so that I can answer the representative Hernæs' specific questions. But I want to remind the representative herenæs that it is of course based on a total assessment of what is the correct location, that Sandefjord has been proposed as a location for the new court in the south of Westfold, and that any minor changes in the calculations of different costs do not simply overturn the reasoning or the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1445	The time for the morning meeting is up. The president will make suggestions to extend the morning meeting until today’s map is ready – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1450	What would you do without the Workers' Party? I ask that question after hearing the diva from the Workers' Party who had spoken before the Council of State. It would have been bad with the court structure if it hadn't been for the Workers' Party. I do not want to undermine the fact that the Halden Court has developed and developed a special competence in border matters because of its closeness and connection to the border crossings at Svinesund and Ørje. This special competence will be best safeguarded and exploited if one maintains the Halden court. St.meld. No 23, which seems to be based on a theory that larger courts are more effective than smaller courts, I cannot join. The Halden should not be deprived of the court, as is the only town in Eastfold, with the consequences it has for Norway's most prominent border town. In this context, it must also be pointed out that the Halden Court is among the most effective in the county. If the tasks are to be taken over by Sarpsborg, it will require additional space needs in Sarpsborg with subsequent expenditure. Fortunately, a unanimous committee has been in favour of the maintenance of the court by the border town of Halden in the light of border crime, etc. I would also like to comment on the proposals that the sorencies in Flekkefjord and Lvgal should be merged, with the offices of Farsund. Mandal sorenskrembette is proposed combined with Kristiansand burret. I have the impression that Farsund has been selected for economic reasons. Any savings from the use of existing premises are likely to be of a short-term nature. From the solution proposed, the police will be charged with increased transport costs which are not mentioned in any of the notifications on how to recover. A new collective court should consist of the courts of Mandal, Farsund and Flekkefjord, and the court should be placed in Lwgal, which is the natural geographic centre, which is in line with the wishes of the police in Agder. Local courts have been given a lot of attention today. It is a fact that it takes only two to three days before the documents have been finalised in the courts. The proposed transfer of object illumination to the Staten Kartsverk could lead to increased processing time. The time between the shipment of the joint and the completion of the order of business is of great importance for the purchasers of the dwelling, because the additional costs are incurred quickly during a long period of treatment. According to the plan, a new electronic asset lighting system cannot be put into service until 2004, and it would be wrong, in the opinion of this member, to change the current system at least before 2004. There are many legal problems that arise from the lighting of things. All this suggests that the tasks should be carried out by the courts, which have broad legal competence. It is not desirable to impose additional costs on housing buyers in addition to today's property information fees and document fees already charged. The base book contains homeowners and encumbrances on all the property of the country, and all sales and pledges of real estate are based on the information contained in the base book on ownership and encumbrances. It is essential for the sale of real estate and for the mortgage that the disclosure of property is made promptly and correctly. The base book is of high quality and users receive guidance from well-qualified case handlers. Most users have reasonable travel distances to the property information offices today. The state's responsibility for correct disclosure of property becomes a liability whose faults are made. So far, the errors have been few and the damages small in relation to the large number of materialistic documents. The high level is due to a stable professional environment and a competence which is anchored in the daily contact with the legal knowledge of the judges. The link with the courts represents a guarantee of quality and not least independence, also because the decisions can be reviewed by a higher court. The main task of the Court of Justice is to guarantee the legal certainty of individuals. The courts shall protect citizens from acts of State interference and ensure that citizens in disputes with others have their right established and enforced. I would like to make it quite clear that it is not desirable to change the system, and that the clarification of matters at the courts today is on the rails. I hope it will also do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1471	The President will say that the way in which the representative, Mr Stag, characterised his co-representative, is not devious and parliamentary. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1476	The Courts of First Instance have, and will continue to have, a strong position in the reputation of people as the guarantor of people being judged by current law. In the courts, everyone is equal to the law, and it's an important principle for the dominating power. Thus, the structural change that occurs after today's management, a step in building up the competence and expertise of the individual judge and of the individual court, is very important. It has been important, even though geographically it has offered problems in setting up a structure with fewer courts, so that more judges can work in all courts of the country. Through such an organisation, there will be opportunities to obtain leave and shorter courses to care for disciplines and to acquire new competences. It is important for all democratic countries to have good judges; it helps to strengthen people's confidence in the dooming power, and also secure our state form, namely democracy. There has been a certain discussion about the name of the Courts of First Instance. The government and the Storting enter today so that they will be mentioned under the word "district". For me as a Westerner, the word "things" went well, and we immediately transfer it to Gulating, a thing that has historical dust over it and has written into our history. In the work on the message, many from all over the country have made contact with their courts. And it's not unknown either to my parties or to the others in the committee that I'm in favour of the third court in my county because of long travel distances for those who are soaking up this area in Nordfjord. I'm glad that the Nordfjord municipalities are allowed to choose if they want to go right to Förde or Volda. But when the Progress Party today left the setting and goes in order for Voss and Nordfjord to get their new court, I hang the label "popular" on the party. I'm sorry that the government didn't get a lot of people to move things out of court. In the light of today's technology development, I am overestimated that property clearing can be carried out more effectively by, for example, the State's mapping more effectively than is being done today. It is also not a primary task for the courts. Today, the state agency is responsible for the ownership register GAB, against which each municipality is clumsy. Here you can get knowledge about maps and planning documents that will be useful in relation to things. I am therefore pleased that the majority are in favour of taking the facts out or the courts, and that the department should therefore work on developing alternatives and weighing benefits and disadvantages against each other. I am busy getting a decentralised model for each state, linking up with the public, municipal service offices that are under construction. This is decentralization that will defuse the people. This is where the Center Party and SV have not followed up well enough in the hour when they say this is a centralization. It will simplify this service for most people and at the same time make it easier for people to get help without traveling long distances. Today, we see that fewer and fewer people are arranging their own things in real estate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1491	I registered that the Council of State in reply to the representative Hernæs said that the department had not registered the letter from the municipality of Larvik. I then called the rapporteur in Larvik, who could confirm that the letter was faxed to the Ministry on the same day, Friday 4 May, and signed and sent as a letter on Monday. When I mention this, it is because I think it is important for me in relation to the assessment I have made not to disagree with Larvik/Sandefjord. The communication has argued in such a way that I thought that yes, that's fine – you have an economic aspect in the choice of places, as the communication shows. Now, the Council of State rightly says that the choice of places depends on an overall assessment. As it has looked to the undersigned, not least economic views have been important. That is also why, in relation to the Court of Farsund, I would like to stress that there are two different issues involved. It's about two relationships. One is the proposal that the court should be located in Farsund, and that Mandal be added to Kristiansand. It is then agreed that the court should be in Farsund. But then there is a notion that Mandal is not wanted to be added to Kristiansand, but to Farsund, and then you want the court in Lwigal. These are two different things, and it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. I believe that the representative Stang did not do so in his post in relation to this complex. This is also one of the reasons why we are included in the comment that the right has entered in this setting. The distance in driving time if you transfer Mandal to the western state will be five minutes more than Mandal to Kristiansand. It can't possibly lead to a large economic loss of a budget. That is why I support the location of Farsund. As far as my own country, Buskerud, is concerned, it is clear that even there, the economy has a significant impact on the choice of places. But I want to emphasise in the debate today that the availability and quality of the court of Kongsberg, and the service provided by the Kongsberg Court of Justice to Kongsberg Nutrition Park, have to be continued at Hokksund, so that the service to the Kongsberg district does not get worse than it is today. It is an important trade and industrial work carried out from Kongsberg towards the rest of the world, therefore quality and service must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1506	Just a few words associated with the clearing of things. From the Progress Party we have recorded that the system of point-finding at the courts today works well and is an excellent tool for users, and that is what counts in many ways. Therefore, it may well be worth thinking about whether to lift this out for the sake of principle, or whether to keep it – at least as long as it seems to work well. And then you might want to discuss whether this is a natural role for the courts, but anyway, it's the effect you have to ask for. Now, when you have asked for an investigation into a future system with your own central directory, which we from the Progress Party also support, we see that there may be other solutions than what was originally proposed, with the Staten Kartsverk as the one who would possibly take over this. That's why it's okay that now there's a majority who obviously want to investigate alternatives. In this context, we also see from the Progress Party that it is interesting to note the recording made by the Hardanger Register, which is in many ways a new input, and which should of course be subject to an assessment, and then you will see if you can find a basis for evaluating other ways of solving it. But the essential thing is that what works well, at least you should not replace it with solutions that work worse. So, finally, a few words relating to the Courts of First Instance. From the Progress Party we have determined that keeping the Voss thingright alive, with – to say the least – the same clientele as before, we believe is a sensible arrangement when we look at geography and proximity. After all, our country by the Lord Creator's hand is divided into ways that may not always seem as rational, but we have to try to adapt to the terrain and not do the opposite. For that very reason, we believe that it will be life-created to pass on the Court of First Instance to Voss with the same grasp of municipalities as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1520	I'll be brief. What made me need to say a few words was first and foremost the post of the representative Tor Nymo and his description of the Workers' Party's reluctance to agree to uphold the court in Halden. First of all, I think he's doing things that you don't usually do in the Justice Committee, talking about inner life, how you've come to a majority, a minority, etc. Secondly, it's not right what he says, because the Halden court has been in the border country all along, both before the message came and during the treatment, so it wasn't with any reluctance that we found to be able to add one. But what's quite clear is that we're separating Halden from the other courts proposed by the Center as special, and that's what I founded in my first post in relation to the special border problem and the competence that Halden has on it. Otherwise, I would like to stress quite briefly that the primary task of the Court is and will be the judicial activity, and we must not lose sight of that. With regard to the clearing of matters, I would like to comment on Mr Nymo and also on the representative, Mr Ågot Valle, that the proposal that the Government has made initially involves more decentralisation than is the case with today's clearing of matters, by enabling those who need it to get the service by direct contact in all the 435 municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1531	Only two brief comments: I note that the representative, Mr Tömrås, felt that the reforms in Norway started with the Labour Party governments. Fortunately, there have been governments that started important reforms before both the representative Tömrös and I were born, and it is fortunately also that they have built very well in this country. Let's take that with us. Then I would like to add that after the representative Aure and the representative Dørum became governor, we emptied the drawers that were, and then we did what we got. Of course, we are incredibly happy that others have benefited from the disappointments that have been done there. In particular, in the case of the court case, I believe that in many ways a judgement has been shown by balancing the reforms against taking local considerations into account. That's what I said in the main post, and that's what I'm standing by. Otherwise, I will stop by saying that I believe that the court of Kongsberg was going to pass, and I think it was a mistake that the excellent writing staff in Halden did not get in touch with a police district, but it happened instead – and I will repeat that under the motto «Carthage will be destroyed» long enough for changes to occur in these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1542	Yes, self-scratch should be on the right, because it comes from the heart!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1545	I don't like to have to take the word again now, because I have to enrich something I said before. When you look, you find it called, and when you lighten up a little, you found the letter from the municipality of Larvik, with attachments – which came a few days later than the original letter. A preliminary assessment of the impact assessment provided by the municipality of Larvik has been carried out. Our preliminary assessment is that we maintain the reasoning put forward in the Storing Communication, because they are based on the experience figures that the Department has, both from the expansion and construction of warehouses and with regard to the standard and requirements of the warehouses when they are to be extended. So that's the numerical basis, and we think that's a reasonable basis for the calculations and assessments made in the economic part of the Larvik-Sandefjord assessment, as well as a more overall assessment that also underlies the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1550	The location of a new property register is a debate with strong involvement and different options have been evaluated, as shown in the setting. It's a pleasure, I think, that so many competent environments want to build such a new property register. I am therefore pleased that the majority is in favour of these different options being assessed in greater detail before any final decision on localisation is taken. Of course, the assumption must always be that the location chosen fully meets the professional and organisational requirements. In this context, the Hardanger Register appears to be very interesting. I'm not going to prejudge the outcome of such an investigation, but the special thing about the Hardanger Register is that it's going to be based on professional actors taking care of things, such as banks, real estate agents and lawyers. Thus, individuals are resolved by, for example, turning to their local bank account. It may multiply the number of spot-lighting editors in relation to today's system. But as I said, this is to be investigated, and the investigation is met with great interest for those who live in Hardanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1557	Just a brief comment on the last post of the representative Rasmussen. He stated that he felt it was a positive error when I claimed that the government suffered a defeat in the question of Halden's warrant. He also allows himself to express that I like the treatment in the committee. It's positively incorrect, and I ask him to confer with the record from here of what I said. Even the representatives of the Workers' Party oppose the Government's proposal at this point. Normally Rasmussen knows very well about the discipline in the Workers' Party. If there's any question of following the Government, make a reasonable slave. In this case, one has not. Thus, one has also been reluctant to participate in the majority’s position when a majority was present. So to Rasmussen's argument that the proposal involves more decentralization than it is today. It's about object lighting. But it is only the representatives of the Workers' Party who believe it. There must have been something wrong with the government's footwork when no more have understood that it would be a progress. Now I notice that a lot of people – including the Council of State – are saying that she should do the job, based on what the majority say. They are asked for the government to come back with a scheme to consider taking the case out of the courts. I am very sure that those who make up the majority who ask for such an assessment have a completely different view of what such a central register should be, when the matter comes back, to the Right and to the Advance Party who supports it, are in favour of privatising the Cartwork. They want a Hardanger register. The government will probably conclude that a central register should be at the Swedish Cartel Agency, and then I feel sure that the rail unity that has been expressed here will not be expressed when Stortinget is invited to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1566	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3132]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1580	The purpose of the Directive of the EEA Committee is to safeguard the remuneration interests of coded service providers, such as payment television. According to the Directive, a number of acts relating to different types of piracy equipment are illegal. But it's about actions that have only commercial purposes or interests. It is for each Member State to decide whether, in addition, a prohibition shall be imposed on the private holding and use of piracy equipment or pirate software. In this context, reference is also made to Ot.prp. No 51 for 2000-2001 on the law amending the penal code § 262, the legal protection of coded services, which will be dealt with later today. Information society services will receive legal protection from the Judicial Committee. The Committee considers that Norway should approve the decision of the EEA Committee to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement, in order to obtain internal legislation allowing suppliers access to relevant remedies, and at the same time join the Directive which does not require the offences to be criminalised. I would also like to inform you that the Foreign Affairs Committee is in agreement with these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1596	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3132 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1610	I initially had no desire to extend the debate. I thought this matter was fairly clear, but then I became aware that the Labour Party representative wants to take the floor, and then I think it is natural that I, as the case-law rapporteur, do so. The background for St. pp. No 66 is promoted, is that the assumptions in St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 has changed and it appears that some operating expenditure under category 06.20 was not included in the budget. The Ministry of Justice therefore proposed to strengthen the courts by increasing the appropriations under Chapter 1. 410 Laws and tribunals item 1 Operating expenditure of 16 million. kr, against an equivalent reduction below cap. 440 Staff Regulations of Officials and other servants of the European Communities, Item 1 Operating expenditure. The Committee took note of the capping of the appropriations. 410 Courts of Justice, as opposed to those provided for in St. Prop. No (1) is not sufficient to maintain the level of activity in the courts, with some operating expenditure not included in the draft budget. The Committee notes that, as a result, there has been a need to keep judicial positions vacant and that, if the budget is not increased, there will be a substantial increase in the balances and settlement times. The Committee considers it unfortunate that the courts subsequently had an unsafe operational situation and agreed to the proposal for an increase in the appropriations. The Committee assumes that the Ministry considers an increase in the operational budget of 16 million. kr will be sufficient to change the situation and ensure sound resolution of the case. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Workers' Party, cannot join the Ministry's proposal for containment by reducing the operational allocation to the police by 16 million. kr. The majority point to the fact that over several years the police have had a very tight operating budget and that it is not possible to defend a reduction in appropriations even if in 2000 a ‘savings’ was granted due to late addition to new posts. The majority are of the opinion that there is a clear need for the police themselves to dispose of these funds. The majority therefore assumes that the Government will return to the Stortinget with a new proposal for containment which can be addressed in the Stortinget in the context of the revised 2001 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1625	Based on what is common in the Storting, minority proposals are to be promoted, and therefore it was necessary for me to take the floor anyway: I am promoting the minority proposal in the vote. When I first have the floor: I would add that the reason why such measures are necessary in the case of the courts has already been mentioned by the case-rapporteur, but that is what I am asking questions about. From the government's side, one says that one takes this from the police and the army seat, without any reduction in the level of activity compared to the current situation. That since the majority of the committee cannot accept the containment, it is amazing in itself. It is clear that in the case of the operation of the police, there is a fear of following the usual curtailment. One of the first things I learned in local politics was that minus and plus were going to go together and become zero when we were in the middle of a fiscal year. If it becomes common practice in the committees to push such an invasion until revised, I think it will be something that will be reacted to quite strongly. I do not believe, in particular, that the financial politicians of the individual parties would respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4 [[See page 3133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1642	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 2–5 on today’s map. Case No. 1 is the vote on earlier this morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1649	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Åse Wisløff Nilssen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang proposal No. 2, from Åse Wisløff Nilssen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the Government to make the following changes to the division of districts of the Courts of First Instance in relation to the proposal promoted in St.meld. [[2000-2001]] No 23 a) Orkdal tingrettb) Nordfjord tingrettc) Voss tingrettd) Kragerø tingrett) Hadeland and Land tingrett» Here, the Progress Party has announced support for points (b) and (c) so that the President will vote on points (b) and (c) first. As far as the President is concerned, the Socialist Left and Left have announced their support for the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1702	Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the Bryne court as Jären is subject to the same district border.’ The Socialist Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21.ana.ud1432e1744	During the debate, Mr Rasmussen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones440Police and man-made seat1Operating expenditure, reduced by 16 000 000 from DKK 4 810 154 000 to NOK 4 794 154 000»
