ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e35	The representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave of the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 20 March until further notice from the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen on welfare leave from 20 March until 22 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Anne Berit Andersen For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes3. Kjell Ivar Fossnes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e80	Kjell Ivar Fossnes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e85	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e90	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e95	Mr. Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e103	The representative of Arne Lyngstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e107	On behalf of myself, Inge Wohnning, Ursula Evje, Marit Tingelstad and Odd Einar Dørum, I would like to make a proposal for the approval of the Oasen primary school in the event of an application under the private school law § 3 a.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e112	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e115	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose a change to the new regulation on the one-off charge for motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e130	The government has been sitting for a year. It has been marked by major events — including in the field of foreign policy. We have witnessed a democratic revolution in Yugoslavia, a Croatia that has stepped into the ranks of European democracies, while other parts of the Balkans continue to be marked by ethnic contradictions and great uncertainty. We have witnessed a Middle East marked by violence, mistrust and broken promises, an Africa marked by conflict, natural disasters and AIDS – but also hope, an Asia marked by strong contrasts, political unrest and new economic growth. The United States has had presidential elections and a new administration with new priorities. We have seen a more self-confident Russia, and not least a Europe in which the EU is preparing for enlargement, while at the same time strengthening and deepening cooperation. These are trends that in a globalised world also have consequences for Norway. Norwegian foreign policy is very popular. We have a broad commitment in many parts of the world. The main objective of our foreign policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests primarily in our neighbourhoods. Nevertheless, when we are so deeply involved in other parts of the world, both through development work, efforts for peace, reconciliation and human rights, this is because we have an obligation to do something for others and a belief that through such efforts we also safeguard our own long-term interests. In our peace and reconciliation work, we engage only where the parties to a conflict want our assistance, and where we have special conditions to make an effort. To continue our work in a conflict situation, the parties must show willingness to reconcile and not use us to create the impression that they will peace, but do something else in practice. Therefore, we must be constantly prepared to interrupt a job or to take a break if it appears that the parties are not serious. In this presentation, I will focus on four key areas of our foreign policy: Europe, cooperation with the United States, relations with Russia and our work in the UN Security Council. In the first decade of this millennium, we will experience Europe's reunification. EU enlargement will help balance the former eastern and western divides in Europe. At the same time, we see that cooperation within the EU is both deepened and more extensive. The many and fundamental processes of change in Europe are radically changing the framework conditions for European cooperation. It is against this background that the Government has presented its own big message, on Norway and Europe at the start of a new century, to be discussed by the Stortinget on 22 May. The EU is the driving force behind European cooperation. Our European policy follows two parallel tracks. On the one hand, we must defend Norwegian interests and actively meet the new challenges facing the changes in the EU. As far as we can, we must avoid being parked on the sideline of European policies and avoid becoming a mere recipient of decisions made by others. However, I would like to stress that we already notice that when the EU is expanding, it becomes more difficult to ask for special arrangements and special advantages. With an enlarged EU, the EU has more internal interests to care for. The organisation will not reasonably be able to provide arrangements for outsiders that cannot be given to its own. The EEA Agreement will continue to be the cornerstone of Norway’s economic relationship with the EU. Therefore, it is also essential that we take our duties and rights seriously. We should use the veto only when something important is at stake, and when a veto leads to something. How important it is to have a thoughtful relationship with this, we now see in connection with the need to close the borders for imports of meat from EU countries. It would have been much more difficult to hear about this if Norway had used veto in advance against a wide range of directives. Another prerequisite for being heard is that, like other European countries, we take joint responsibility for building Europe, in order to promote European common interests. We too must contribute to European peace and solidarity, to reduce the gap between East and West and to ensure that Europe's voice is heard. Now that there is so much attention to very serious and contagious animal diseases in some EU countries, we must not forget the big picture. The main historical trend we are seeing today is that Europe is becoming increasingly the same as the European Union. The EU is becoming a natural and natural policy framework for the whole of Europe. We see the outlines of ever wider and more committed EU cooperation that builds peace and solidarity across borders in Europe. The EU is in the process of achieving the goal of a pan-European community. This was confirmed by the EU Summit in Nice in December, which adopted a new treaty that paves the way for south-east and east-east enlargement. The summit also decided to launch a new wide-ranging debate on the future of the EU and hence Europe, with a view to clarification in 2004. Negotiations on EU enlargement are progressing as planned under the Swedish Presidency. The EU summit in Nice confirmed that the first new Member States could be in place already halfway over the next major period. Enlargement of the EU also means enlargement of the EEA. Norwegian exports to central European countries with which we currently have free trade will be subject to EEA arrangements. This will have consequences for, among others: Norwegian fishing industry. How significant the consequences will be depends on the compensation mechanisms we achieve in negotiations with the EU. A major challenge when several countries join the EU is that the bias between the EU and the EFTA pillar in the EEA will become even more striking. Today there are fifteen countries on the EU side and three small countries on the EFTA side. In the future, EFTA countries may meet 25-27 countries. It goes without saying that this changes significantly the EU-EFTA weight relationship. We will become even more subject to other decisions when the EU is expanding. Nevertheless, there is a common European – and therefore Norwegian – interest in the implementation of the EU’s eastern enlargement. The government will soon complete an action plan for the candidate countries, which will be a small Norwegian contribution to their preparation for EU and EEA membership in the years to come. This year, and for the next year, there are already 169 million set aside. kr for that purpose. I cannot today account for developments in Europe without saying anything about the situation in Macedonia. Macedonia exists today because moderate Albanians and moderate Slavic Macedonians have succeeded in holding together at political level, despite internal resistance in each population group. This compromise is now under threat. Macedonia is in its perhaps worst political crisis since independence ten years ago. In this situation, the international community must support moderate forces and continue efforts to engage in inter-ethnic dialogue and cooperation. In promoting interethnic dialogue, Norway has already provided assistance to Macedonian authorities to implement confidence-building measures. I think it's in the process of creating dialogue that Norway can also be helpful here. We are now in an important period in our relationship with the United States. Here we are in the same boat as the rest of Europe. Important issues relating to transatlantic relations are on the agenda. I can mention here the American plans to develop a rocket defence – to which the Government still has a number of critical issues – the development of a European security and defence policy, the commitment in the Balkans and, as a result, the question of a new round of enlargement in NATO. President Bush has repeatedly underlined the importance of the NATO alliance and the transatlantic alliances for the United States. This is joyous. However, it should not be underestimated that there are different views in the United States regarding both the importance of and the ‘health status’ of European-American cooperation. Not least, the perceptions are different in Congress. It is therefore important that the heavy matters now on the agenda be dealt with in a way that does not create unnecessary sparks in this cooperation. The new administration has recently issued clear opinions on support for the development of a common European security and defence policy, the ESDP. However, the conditions have also been equally clear: firstly, the initiative must result in a new burden-sharing between the United States and Europe and an increase in the overall military capability. Secondly, the ESDP must be compatible with the cooperation in NATO and not weaken the transatlantic links. The government shares these assumptions. Our support for the ESDP is partly justified by the fact that the EU initiative responds to the demand for a new burden-sharing. At the same time, our own defence is being transformed to meet the new security challenges. The fact that in two weeks' time a Norwegian general will take over the leadership of the KFOR force in Kosovo is a result of our willingness to take greater responsibility for Europe's common security. President Bush and others in the management of the new administration have made it clear that in the first place, and over time, the deployment of a rocket defense is a high priority. In the United States there is generally strong support for these thoughts. While Clinton was talking about a limited defence against a smaller number of missiles, Bush has signaled that he wants a more comprehensive defense. The Bush administration has launched a review assessing all aspects of this issue, including the possible inclusion of defence of allied territory. The plans raise a wide range of questions relating, inter alia, to: the strategic balance sheet, the future of the ABM Agreement, the consequences for arms control and disarmament, as well as relations with Russia and China. Before the proposals become more concrete, it is difficult to have a clear view of the American plans. However, we have noted the express willingness of the Bush administration to conduct close consultations with the Allies on the missile defence plans. We trust that the United States will listen to allies' views. My impression now is that it is also possible to engage in constructive talks between the United States and Russia on this issue, which I became aware of during my meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov in Murmansk just a few days ago. When I put so much emphasis on the relationship with the United States, it's because the United States is an important supporter in the efforts to integrate Russia into Euro-Atlantic cooperation, as it is. is reflected in Barents' cooperation and Baltic Sea cooperation. The participation of the United States is also important in relation to nuclear cooperation in North-West Russia. Apart from Russia, the international community has a responsibility to contribute to the proper management of hazardous nuclear waste in Kola. Norway is therefore looking forward to the continued active involvement of the United States — together with other resource-intensive countries — in nuclear cooperation in the north. What is taken as a matter of course by one generation doesn't have to be for the next. For this reason and in recognition of the fact that transatlantic relations – like our relationship with Europe – constitute one of the pillars of Norwegian foreign and security policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now set out to look at all aspects of our relationship with the United States. In the long term, we want to develop a comprehensive and broad-based strategy for our relationship with the United States. I imagine a dynamic process, in which, not least, external actors will also be involved in the work gradually. As far as Norwegian-Russian connections are concerned, I would say they are good. Nevertheless, over the last year, we have observed features that show that Russia is still a demanding partner. In bilateral relations and in Northern Region policy, we are facing a more self-confident Russia. Now it is not unnatural that Norway and Russia have different views and interests in some questions. But what gives some cause for concern is that Russia in part develops old patterns of reaction and action – not least in relation to conditions of common interest in the north. Today’s Russian policy towards Norway must therefore be characterised as complex. The willingness to cooperate and to meet up with criticism alternates. Russia criticises Norway for the Global II radar in Vardø, which they still present may have a function in a future US rocket defence system. We have repeatedly refuted this claim. Norway is also criticised for the application of the specific restrictions on military activity in Finnmark and for the new Environmental Protection Act for Svalbard. We face this criticism with firmness, openness and predictability. At the same time, we must try to understand the inequality in convergence that still persists, and actively clear up misunderstandings and misconceptions that have to arise. We must, in a fair and tidy manner, say as we feel that the Russian approach is becoming too little constructive. At the same time, it is important to have open channels and a continuous dialogue on all issues. Last year, the Government presented a Russia-Norway strategy covering the full range of tensions between Russia and Norway. The strategy is a concrete expression of the willingness to bet on relations with Russia and coordinate our long-term interests. The Russian reactions have been positive. Now the authorities of both countries must show political will to clear out outdated barriers, so that cooperation becomes easier. In this way both trade and investment will have better conditions. Norway has, as everyone knows, felt a special responsibility for people-to-people cooperation in the north – for building trust across a border that was almost closed not long ago. In a few years, we have had Barents' cooperation and other multilateral and bilateral cooperation arrangements that tear down old divisions and build new cross-border cooperation. We have also managed to involve the EU in cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety in the north. During the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting of the Barents Council last week, significant progress was noted in the negotiations on a broad multilateral framework agreement for the clean-up of nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel. If we succeed in getting this agreement in place, the region is open to significant international investment in nuclear safety, which will mean enormous amounts to our common environment, but also to business, investment and employment on both sides of the North border. Norway and Russia manage rich fishing resources in the Barents Sea. Cooperation focuses on fixing fishing quotas and research. Unfortunately, we have had problems with access to the Russian economic zone for Norwegian research. We hope that the end-of-year authorisation for the winter season will bring about a lasting improvement in research cooperation for the benefit of both countries, and that this will support the rational management of our common fish stocks. We also see great opportunities for close cooperation with Russia, both in the Barents Sea and in the mainland of Northern Russia. But the full potential for cooperation in the Barents Sea could only be triggered once a solution has been found to the demarcation issue there. Furthermore, it is of great importance that petroleum extraction and transport take place in a way that does not endanger the environment and our common fisheries resources. The cooperation between Russia and Norway following the ‘Course’ tradition is an example of the contact and openness we want to see between our neighbouring countries. Such direct military contact itself has an important trustworthiness function. In retrospect, we have worked to achieve bilateral cooperation on the warning of accidents, search and rescue in the north. It will complement the practical cooperation already initiated between NATO and Russia in this area. It is also positive that Russia will send observers for the first time to this year's Partnership for Peace-related Exercise in North Norway. In our relationship with Russia, the UN dimension has now become extra important. Permanent membership of the Security Council is a key pillar of Russian foreign policy. As a result of Norway’s membership, the Security Council has become an important meeting place between our two countries, and we have already learned that we are close to each other on a wide range of issues. Our membership of the Security Council will thus also help to strengthen relations with Russia. Finally, as far as Russia is concerned, I would say that under President Putin, the threads of Russian foreign policy are more united than before. That's an advantage. The positions and positions have been more united and prepared, and the impact of the management structures on the Russian side has been improved. At the same time, economic and national security has been given a high place in the Russian hierarchy. Russia is in the midst of a comprehensive reform process. It is in our clear self-interest that Russia succeeds in consolidating democracy and developing a sustainable economy. Whether development will go in that direction is up to Russia itself. But as a neighbouring country and with our partners in Europe and North America, we can make important contributions. In my presentation to the Stortinget on 14 November last year, I stressed that membership of the Security Council would be a national task. The broad opening up of the United Nations and the inter-political consensus in the United Kingdom on our work in the Security Council is important to us. The membership of the Security Council has been at least as demanding as we predicted. Within the next three months we have been a member, the Council has dealt with over 50 issues related to existing UN mandates and peace operations. The issues on the Security Council's agenda ranged from Haiti to East Timor, from Kosovo to Sierra Leone. About two thirds of cases have been related to conflicts in Africa. Focusing specifically on Africa is also one of the main priorities for our long-term work in the Security Council. I will therefore first elaborate some of the challenges we face in Africa. Most of the conflicts in Africa are internal and have resulted in extensive humanitarian suffering and loss of life. Many of the conflicts are caused by ethnic contradictions, poverty and oppression, and the fight for the right to exploit valuable natural resources such as oil and diamonds. Our desire to focus on the underlying causes of conflict and war is therefore particularly relevant to the situation in Africa. Conflicts are concentrated mainly in three areas on the continent: the African horn, the area around the large seas of central Africa and West Africa. The Horn of Africa is a region of Norway that has been engaged for a long time through extensive assistance and support for various peace and reconciliation measures. Norway recently headed the work of the Council to negotiate a decision on the follow-up to the concluded peace agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea. We will actively oppose the lifting of the current arms embargo before the parties have fulfilled the terms of the truce agreement. The Democratic Republic of Congo is now the scene of a complex and wide-ranging conflict involving six neighbouring countries. The conflict has been at the heart of the Security Council's agenda in the last few months. The Council is now working to ensure that the parties to the conflict withdraw from a joint plan – the Lusaka agreement – so that the UN can deploy military observers and soldiers. At the same time, Norway will continue its humanitarian involvement in the region and support the mediation in order to engage in a political dialogue on the basis of the agreements concluded among conflicting groups in the Congo. I discussed this at the latest yesterday in a conversation with Uganda's Foreign Minister here in Oslo. We are facing several worrying developments in West Africa. For a number of years, President Charles Taylor's regime in Liberia has played a destabilising role in the region in supporting the brutal uprising movement in Sierra Leone. Norway has been actively involved in the process of imposing financial penalties on Liberia to stop Liberia’s diamond and weapons trafficking in the rebel movement. The recently adopted and more targeted sanctions against Liberia are necessary to provide the basis for a political solution to the conflicts in West Africa. The various conflicts in the region have created a serious refugee situation in border regions between Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. Some 200,000 refugees — mainly from Sierra Leone — have been detained in border areas and have been victims of attacks and attacks by rebel forces and regular military units from the countries concerned. We are now considering new measures to strengthen both the UN and our own humanitarian efforts in the region. State Secretary Raymond Johansen made a visit last week to West Africa, among others. to look at how Norway can strengthen cooperation with West African countries on building up their own capacity to participate in international peace operations. We have already started similar cooperation with countries in southern Africa. Despite Africa's dominant position on the Security Council's agenda, I think we can conclude that the UN has managed only to a limited extent to deal with these conflicts. It is a growing recognition among many African leaders that the primary responsibility for development and peace in Africa lies with them. There is little that the UN or the international community can do if the leaders themselves do not give the highest priority to peace and development. Unfortunately, we see too often today that the desire for economic gain and power for a snout elite are being put ahead of the basic needs of the population. In any case, we cannot see that war and conflict are going to ruin the positive developments we have seen in many African countries over the last few years. Therefore, the international community must continue to engage. We have a common responsibility for Africa's future. We have used the first two months as the head of the Iraqi Sanctions Committee to thoroughly address the various aspects of the sanctions regime and how it works in practice. For us, it is absolutely essential that we be able to base our policies on our own information and assessments. We have therefore taken steps to reopen the embassy in Baghdad, while strengthening the staffing both in Oslo and at the UN Delegation in New York. We recognise that the sanctions against Iraq do not function properly and that they are mature for change. We need to find solutions that better satisfy the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi population, while preventing Saddam Hussein from developing weapons of mass destruction and again threatening peace and security in the region. The problem today is that Iraq does not cooperate with the UN. At the same time, Saddam Hussein has embarked on a line in which he deliberately suffers his own people for international sympathy and support for lifting sanctions without meeting UN requirements. It is important to be clear that among the members of the Security Council there is full agreement that Iraq must comply with the requirements of Security Council Resolution No. 1284 before the penalties may be lifted. For Norway, consideration for the civilian population will always be given to a significant role in the imposition and continuation of sanctions. There is no doubt that the people of Iraq are being cynically exploited by Saddam Hussein. Today, almost 40 billion kroner are spent on the UN oil-for-food account – money that could have gone to food and medicine without further ado. However, Saddam Hussein's propaganda war does not exempt the Security Council from doing everything possible to protect the civilian population. But we must have no illusions that international society can meet all the basic needs of the civilian population if Saddam Hussein wants them to suffer as part of his cynical propaganda game. During the conversation with Colin Powell in Washington last month, I presented proposals for concrete changes to the sanctions regime. This was the result of a work in which we have actively explored the possibilities for making sanctions more targeted and effective. Firstly, we stressed that the number of so-called ‘holdings’ – i.e. contracts withheld by the Sanctions Committee — substantial reductions should be made. Our own analyses show that the vast majority of the applications for export to Iraq for further evaluation include devices that are not reasonably linked to weapon production. Secondly, we called for the extension of the lists of pre-approved equipment under the oil-for-food programme, that is. extend the list of equipment for which an export licence need not be applied for. Thirdly, we proposed that it be possible to reduce the list of equipment that can be used both militarily and civilly – so-called dual use equipment. In this way, more equipment may be released where the main field of application is of a civil nature. I got a clear impression that Powell himself was prepared to make a fundamental reassessment of the sanctions regime against Iraq and was therefore very susceptible to our ideas. Our thoughts have also been presented to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the other permanent members of the Security Council. The response has been unequivocally positive. We are therefore now working further to develop these ideas with a view to drawing up more concrete proposals. However, let me underline that there is no easy balance on the one hand to make reliefs in the sanctioning regime to improve the humanitarian situation of the civilian population, while at the same time making the sanctions more targeted and effective to prevent Saddam Hussein from getting weapons of mass destruction. Sanctioning issues are, in short, technically complex, politically very sensitive and humanitarianly very sensitive. It will therefore take some time for agreed solutions to be in place. I would also like to say that there is now a debate in the Security Council on sanctions as an instrument more generally. The government’s view is that, as a clear general rule, sanctions — whether financial or otherwise — must be agreed and provided for in decisions of the UN Security Council. We will now work to make sanctions more targeted and effective, primarily affecting the real decision-makers in the country concerned and not the civilian population. We will further work for unambiguous texts of resolutions that give the sanctioned State a clear idea of what is expected to be achieved before the sanctions can be suspended or lifted. The aim of the sanctions shall be not to punish anyone, but to improve a situation. Therefore, we also believe that sanctioning policy must support a political process where both tightening and tightening the sanctions are an ongoing alternative, depending on the will of the country concerned or the lack of willingness to comply with the requirements. We will therefore go in order to limit penalties as a general rule. This will make the penalties more flexible, by requiring the Security Council to make a regular and concrete assessment of the extent to which the State concerned has complied with the Security Council’s requirements and to adapt the subsequent sanctions. Finally, we will emphasise the need for a thorough analysis of the humanitarian consequences of sanctions – both before the imposition of sanctions and as we see their effects, as is the case in Iraq. There is broad consensus on key aspects of Norwegian foreign policy. This gives us strength, this gives us credibility, this is important to maintain, not least at a time when we are facing major changes and upheavals. The globalisation we are in the midst of – triggered by modern technology and science, reinforced by economic and political integration and frequent cross-border contact – confronts us with new and important challenges. As a technologically advanced society, with great dependence on the rest of the world, Norway has a lot to gain from globalisation. But we also have everything to gain from regulating the international market forces. Globalisation is increasing the need for political governance. Just as we make driving rules for world trade, we need to establish policies that regulate the free flow of capital. We need strong global mechanisms and mechanisms. I want to compare with the situation 100 years ago, when new technology paved the way for capitalist production methods. In the beginning, this unregulated capitalism led to a brutal exploitation of workers. It was only when the welfare state came up with laws that protected people and gave them rights, while welfare systems led to defrosting, that society got better for everyone. It is such a mixture of market forces and political governance that we must achieve at global level. We need to build a global welfare state according to the same pattern as we built the national welfare state. I would therefore like to inform Stortinget that I have initiated a wide-ranging investigation into how we can contribute to better management of international market forces. The objective is that this should form the basis for a separate forecasting message, which is intended to be submitted by the end of next year. The starting point is that we must meet the challenges of globalisation through international cooperation. Cooperation that has emerged in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, is an example of the development of a regulatory relationship between countries — in this case in the field of international trade. It was provided in the WTO Agreement that negotiations on agriculture and services would begin from 1 January last year. Last year, the work in Geneva in these areas was concentrated on organising the negotiations, and it is now at a stage where the first proposals are presented. A Norwegian agricultural proposal was presented in January this year, and we are tabling a negotiating proposal on trade in services in these days. As you know, the long-term objective of the WTO agricultural negotiations is to achieve significant gradual reductions in agricultural subsidies and customs duties. In the negotiations, this must be done, among other things: take into account non-commercial aspects and the specific situation of developing countries. The importance that non-commercial aspects are adequately addressed was emphasised in the Norwegian proposal. The need for increased market access and special treatment in developing countries was also highlighted. In this context, the Norwegian negotiating proposals for services cover six service areas: shipping, aviation, energy services, telecommunications services, financial services and so-called business and professional services. These are all important export sectors for Norwegian industry. In particular, through the EEA Agreement, Norway already has an open market for these service areas. Through the WTO negotiations, we want to ensure Norwegian companies improved market access in key markets for Norwegian service providers. Let me stress that the negotiations are not about how we organize our societies. The agreements make it clear that this is the responsibility of the national authorities. This also applies to how we organise the public sector. Whether or not to include: are intended to expose parts of a public sector to competition, it is therefore up to national authorities to decide. There are no such obligations in the agreement. Negotiations are conducted in such a way that countries themselves decide at all times what obligations they will assume. In addition to the negotiations that have begun, useful work has been carried out in Geneva, as well as through bilateral contacts in the capitals, with a view to laying the foundations for a new broad round. In this context, it is not least that the new US administration has now indicated a positive attitude towards new negotiations. At the same time, there has been an increasing recognition of the need for active action on specific trade measures for developing countries. I therefore hope that there will be opportunities to reach agreement on new broad negotiations towards the next WTO Ministerial Conference, which will take place in Qatar at the beginning of November. In the further discussions on the preparations for the Qatar Ministerial Conference, it will not least be important for Norway to ensure that negotiations will include increased market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products, as well as improvements to trade legislation in important areas. I intend to return to Stortinget before the summer with a statement on the status of WTO negotiations and the preparations for the Qatar Ministerial Conference. Finally, there must be both a moral dimension and an interest-based dimension underpinning Norwegian foreign policy. The moral dimension is based on the fact that we can't be ourselves enough. We also have obligations beyond ourselves – beyond the borders of Norway. We have a responsibility for children who suffer, whether they are in Norway, Kosovo or Sierra Leone. It is a short and well-known issue of solidarity. I believe that if we were to significantly reduce UN appropriations and aid, Norway would not just change character, we would harm our soul. You have to be aware that in large parts of the world, the UN represents the only hope for millions of children and adults. Moreover, such a cutting policy would run counter to the interest-based dimension of our foreign policy – the one that should take care of specific national interests. Because we have such a broad foreign policy, we have contact points with the EU and the major acts that Norway relies on. I therefore see it as my task to combine these moral and interest-based dimensions in Norwegian foreign policy. We should not exaggerate our importance. I'll quote Knut Frydenlund, who said it like this: ‘Norway is a country that has far greater influence in the world than its resources and size should be, but where this influence is less than we imagine.’ But we can make a small difference, provided that we play our cards right. I'll use the Middle East as an example in the end. Many have felt that we should have condemned Israel’s use of violence more harshly. However, in the United Nations and elsewhere, Norway has taken a clear distance from excessive violence, so it must be the public use of words and the intensity of what is requested. But you can't condemn yourself to peace in the Middle East. Peace can only be achieved through reconciliation that can build mutual trust and provide the basis for negotiation. Also in this conflict, as in Macedonia, Norway has the opportunity to play a role provided that we build up under a dialogue process. And if we keep in touch with both parties in this conflict, we can do something concrete for the Palestinians, which is the weak party. Norway has recently made a significant contribution to sewing together a financial assistance package to the Palestinian authorities. And because we have weighed our words, our call to Israel to lift the blockade of the Palestinian territories is all the more important. I would therefore like to add a third dimension to our foreign policy, namely the result-oriented proximity to which, in particular, the Nordic countries are known. It is this pragmatism that underlies me finally saying that the precondition for achieving results is that we are able to have a good and close relationship with our important ally, the United States, with an EU that is increasingly Europe's voice, and with our important neighbour in the East, Russia. That is why this statement is essentially about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e322	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e334	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e345	The majority today has to deal with the Hagen proposal to grant compensation to Tore Sandberg for 900000 kroner in order to cover tax claims resulting from the gift received by Sandberg from Per Liland, and the costs of exemption from the tax charge. The matter is of a very principleal nature, but first I choose to link some comments to Sandberg's efforts in the so-called Liland case. The Liland case is a dark chapter in Norwegian legal history. Innocently sentenced the Per Liland son 14 years in prison and 10 years in custody before he was found free. Even a record replacement payment can't pay for a ruined life. There is reason to believe that without Sandberg's efforts to clean up Liland, the case would hardly have been resumed and Liland released. There is therefore great respect for the efforts made by Tore Sandberg. When the system itself does not capture such errors as in the Liland case, such voluntary efforts as that of Sandberg are crucial to correcting wrongs. In my view, it is only reasonable that such efforts should be appreciated by society. However, in the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important to maintain the fundamental difference of competence between the courts, on the one hand, as a judicial authority and, on the other hand, the Storting as a legislative authority, on the other. The award shall be valid for the purposes of determining the legal rules to be applied by the courts and shall be subject to the judgment of the courts in each case. Against this background, I do not think it is right to go into the facts in the decision of the Court of Justice, as the minority does in the committee position. Although a case in isolation appears to be highly controversial, Stortinget should be very reluctant to review the judgment of the Court of Justice. On this basis, a majority of the Committee also rejects this document. The 8th proposal. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the voluntary efforts that Sandberg made in the Liland case. The fact that Sandberg was awarded NOK 100 000 in cheap compensation was really supposed to be missing. Therefore, on behalf of the Central Party’s large group, I would like to conclude that we do not want to go into the assessment itself, but that the taxation in this specific case appears to be disproportionately printing, or particularly unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e363	Fortunately, we do not often experience such a strong zeal on behalf of the state as the representative Nymo expressed in this post. After a series of honoraries on the very serious matter, the conclusion becomes the very opposite – many beautiful words, but no action. At all, there's a wonderful argument, because the whole argument goes on the original proposal. It's not just the majority who rejected it, it's actually also the minority who rejected it because we've found another way to solve this problem. So there's no attempt on the part of the minority to interfere in any kind of court proceedings. But as the representative Nymo closed his post, I would like to try to get a clear answer if possible. Is the representative of Nymo and the central party group want the tax claim against Tore Sandberg to be waived, or does he not want it? If he wants it, it's a very elegant way to do it, and it's to support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e372	What I expressed in my post was not in any way an attempt to use honorary words in such an important matter. If the representative Hernæs had heard of this, he would have perceived the seriousness of the matter and also the sincere expression of respect and thanks for what Tore Sandberg has done here, namely to get the Liland case resumed. So to the reality, as I said in my post, this case raises a problem that makes it important to separate here. On the one hand, the Stortinget is the legislative authority and thus determines the legal rules governing the tax case referred to here. But I also think the representative, Hernæs, is aware that from those environments that may have a great sense of the minority's proposal, they have a full understanding that the Storting will not go in to instruct municipal and county authorities' decisions based on a principleal meaning. As I said, we wouldn't go into the minority's proposal, but I actually believe that what I stressed at the end of my speech, and to which I believe the majority of the committee also subscribe, will be clear leads for how to want this matter to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e381	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e384	I can largely agree with the rapporteur's statement on the position of the majority in this case. Initially, I would also like to express respect for the extensive work Sandberg has done, which has been necessary for the matter to be dealt with, has been resumed and Liland freed. Voluntary action is valuable, and in this case it is essential to remedy the wrongs committed. It is not unreasonable for society to appreciate such an effort, and in this context I show that Sandberg was granted compensation of NOK 100 000 from the Grand Duchy's lavish compensation scheme in 1999 as a concession for the costs and the loss of sales of Sandberg's company in the time he worked on the Liland case. The effort had a high degree of voluntary activity, but I would also like to remind you that Sandberg's work took place in the course of commercial activities, and that the operating costs Sandberg had in his aid work are considered deductible operating costs in his company. Sandberg also received an amount of SEK 1.1 million. kr from Per Liland for his work on the matter. The current suspension is whether the State is to pay compensation to Sandberg for the tax charge that the Liland grant has triggered, and which is legally determined by the courts, and whether the costs Sandberg has incurred in the legal examination of the tax charge, shall be reimbursed, as the courts have also ruled. So because it's a legal case between a taxpayer and the state, it's the courts that decide how to bear the financial burden of the costs. This is where the majority of the Committee considers that it is necessary to base fundamental assessments of the relationship between the legislative authority and the courts. It is the court's opinion that the law does not allow Sandberg's expenses to be covered by the Liland case, and that the gift of SEK 1.1 million. kr is taxable. The size should be very reluctant to enter into an individual case and review the judgment of the courts, by instructing the administration of a solution that would undermine existing laws and regulations. That's what this minority is doing. Yes, they actually interpret the law in a single matter of what is necessary expenditure. They assume that if it was legitimate, the courts would accept all expenses automatically. I believe it is doubtful that such views by the legislator, provided that a majority here for instructions on full compensation, would have created precedent. In any event, there would have been a tax liability even if the Court had awarded Sandberg a remuneration in accordance with the rules on compensation or recovery of costs in admissibility proceedings. Reimbursement – as the amount of SEK 1.1 million. kr – taxed regardless of whether it comes from the private sector or from the public sector. The minority does not believe that the legal rules are unfair today, and does not propose any change. Is it true that the application of laws by the Court of Justice applies to some, but not to others? Individual cases have to be decided in accordance with the applicable legislation and legislation, and apply equally to all. The majority shall use its legislative authority to amend existing legislation in which the Court of Justice finds that there is a lack of jurisdiction or that decisions are taken in individual cases on which the Storting will change. That's often the way things show up. One disagrees with the way an individual case has been handled and addresses the issue of legislation and regulation here should be amended. That's what the Storting is going to treat. However, an assessment is required on a broader basis than the current suspension allows, whether legislation in this area should be amended for the treatment of future cases of this type. I believe that this is the basis for such an assessment. However, under current legislation, there are provisions on the reduction of the cheapness of taxes based on the Tax Payments Act. I see that on the basis of the content and the specific nature of the matter, reasonable grounds can be given for such an application, but would nevertheless stress that the decision-making authority has been entrusted here with the relevant bodies in the tax administration, and must take place within the framework of the applicable legislation and legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e407	The representative Bjørnstad also began with an expression of recognition and even respect for the work that Tore Sandberg has done. He went to work more specifically than the representative Nymo, he even – with seemingly great satisfaction – set the value of the respect of NOK 100 000, which Sandberg has received in a previous fare. The expression "roast" will hardly be used about that kind of attitude. Otherwise, most of the article was a procedure in relation to § 438. Why representatives of the majority consider that this process is not easy to understand. It's actually accepted by everyone that that law is the way it is. We'll probably come back to whether it should be reasonable to change that law. As Mr Bjørnstad rightly says, our proposal is based on Section 41 of the Tax Payments Act, where it is permitted for this type of treatment, and where the words ‘especially unfair’ have been introduced. I would like to ask the representative, Bjørnstad: if the words ‘especially unfair’ are ever to have any meaningful content, is it possible to challenge Vidar Bjørnstad to suggest in which case they would apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e419	I still have no problem repeating recognition in relation to the mainly voluntary work undertaken by Sandberg in the Liland case, and expressing respect for the efforts made. But I also want to emphasize that I believe such voluntary action is taking place in many places relative to the wrong that has been committed. At least I want to be careful to quantify, characterize and measure wrong. It's very individual and can be felt equally strongly in a matter that doesn't necessarily have this extent, related to what one calls the murder of justice in this case. So that's the pass. Yes, I just used the reason from the Grand Stortinge's lavish substitute committee in relation to the amount of NOK 100 00. I would also like to point out that it is never intended that cheap compensation should be compensated with full compensation for the loss of the amount, or in this case, as the Right does, to use the Billing Replacement Committee as a balancing item just to provide an exact amount of compensation. The representative Hernæs said he agreed that this case was decided by the courts. But the consequence of Hernæs' and Right's proposals today is that they are actually pushing for a decision in a single case that will undermine the interpretation made by the courts of existing laws. We do not want to process a single application for tax payment or remission here in this Chamber. I repeat that we see that there are reasonable grounds for such an application, but the decision lies within the relevant tax administration bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e428	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e431	There is one question that is at the heart of this matter, and that is the question: is the Storting going to do about the outcome of the court ruling? When the representative, Hernæs, says that what Mr Nymo and the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, have done so far in the debate today, is a procedure, it must be understood that we find reason – as is stated in the majority remark – to defend our position. Yes, who does not defend his position? One of the main reasons for speaking in these debates is, of course, to explain to those who do not share their views as to why the result has been obtained. For the Christian People's Party, it's actually about the Storting not doing anything about the outcome of the judicial decision. It's not like you don't have an understanding of the problem, that it's complex and complex in such a way that by emphasising different factors you can get to different results. In the joint statement that the majority of us have in this matter, we have not expressed the honorary word, but expressed what we actually think is right. It's a description of a matter that in our system has not been good, and we would wish it had not had the result it had. And we give recognition to Tore Sandberg for the work he's done. But at the same time, we find it problematic as a legislative body to go into what is the responsibility of the judicial body, and say that we are doing that in the Grand Chamber. But while we have said this, we point out that there are rules on reduced-price rates based on the Tax Payments Act, but that the decision in such cases belongs to the relevant tax administration bodies. It's not to find an easy way back to suggest anything that we would wish this had been done differently – even if we might, when to say it is true, wish it had been a different result. We in the Christian People's Party see that taxation appears unfair in this matter, but we do not find any reason to go into the concrete result that exists. The court decision means that we have to stand firm, while giving a signal that it can be processed and followed up in another way, and that even though it may be a very special matter that we hope will not get back again in our system, it should not form the precedent – that should not be the way to do this page. What the rapporteur has said, and what the representative Bjørnstad has said, are presentations to which the Christian People's Party subscribes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e442	I had hoped that from representatives from the parties that have been on the pulpit until now, I would not have met with this kind of ice-cold cynicism and formal considerations. Here you stand up one by one and say that this is gross, but to join in on a polite request to the Government to contact its different bodies in the tax administration, no, so far it will be absolutely impossible to go for these three parties. I'm going to have to go a little bit deeper into this matter than the superficial considerations that the three previous speakers have given. This is a case that is so grotesque that it hopefully lacks parallel in Norway. Just suggesting that some of the positions in this case should create some kind of precedent, is in a way indirect to say that the Norwegian judiciary has to be a pill of rats. We have to bear in mind that this is essentially an outstanding case, and we have to be allowed to assume that even the courts believe it when they say that this injustice would not be revealed and to some extent done well again – I stress: to some extent done well again – if it had not been for the work that Tore Sandberg and the Ekroth family have done in this matter. And then we're in the situation that after destroying a whole life, a human being is awarded compensation from the state in money, which, of course, can never be anything but a patch on the wound. So Per Liland chooses to use part of the tax-free compensation he has received from the state – I emphasise that he uses part of the tax-free compensation he has received from the state – to give an extensive hand to the man who has made sure that he has received this upliftment more than anyone else. And so the state's laws are such that the amount of compensation that they have been able to provide free of tax is reduced in part by the tax authorities, so that the tax law actually reduces the compensation that the government's agencies have awarded to Per Liland. There must be something called morale in matters, and in particular this applies when the tax law has actually taken on board that there may be cases that are so unreasonable that they fall outside what has been the intention of the legislator with the law. The clause in Section 41 of the Tax Payments Act therefore makes it possible to disregard the tax requirement if you want to, and if you think it is a matter that deserves it. I'll be allowed to quote from Ot.prp. No 17 for 1951 on page 97, where it says: ‘However, the proposed rules must also be applied in other specific cases, such as: where the rules of the tax laws have been particularly adverse to an individual taxable person in breach of what has been the opinion of the legislators.» However, the Tax Directorate stresses that, at the same time as such cases occur rarely, they are not limited to situations where applicants have poor advice. So that's not what this is about. Therefore, the minority today says that we find the mentioned and quoted provisions on tax relief after the option “especially unfair”, fully covering the tax claim against Tore Sandberg, and we refer, as I have said before, to the Tax Payments Act § 41. Now I can agree that it is possible to find a solution to matters in different ways. There have been some cryptic formulations – less from Vidar Bjørnstad than from Tor Nymo and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, but especially from the latter two, some cryptic formulations have been given – that they really agree with the proposal that the requirement for a tax of 1.1 million. kr should be waived. They also agree that it is appropriate to extend the allowance for cheapness from NOK 100 000 by a further NOK 200000, so that the total amount of cheapness compensation is DKK 300000. So this is the amount that is essentially going to be equal to 1.6 million. NOK that has been mentioned before, after tax would have been paid in that case. As far as I understand it, the reason why they cannot agree to this is that they believe that a Norwegian State Council should not have the authority to make its opinion known to the relevant bodies in very special cases, as mentioned in the Tax Act. But here you have to either think you shouldn't, or you have to think that you can. And during this debate, we will have to clarify whether Tor Nymo and Finn Kristian Marthinsen believe that the tax requirement should be waived, and that it is reasonable that Sandberg should be reimbursed cheaply, as we have suggested. If it can be expressed from this pulpit in such a way that the Council of State can tell us that she has perceived the message, it is all right, even though it is then very difficult to understand why they cannot join in to what we have proposed. However, I would like to stress that we need that signal in clear language from the Parliament's pulpit, whether it is considered that the tax requirement should be waived, and whether cheap compensation should be provided. If you say it in a form you think you've given the signal in, without in any way being able to see it as if you're interfering with the relevant organs, yes, it's going to be a form of formulation that gets up to the others. I just want to see that if you don't get this kind of opinion, and this means that the underlying bodies interpret it to that point that the Storting is of the opinion that there is no such compensation, it won't be possible afterwards to claim that you've been in good faith, that you've really meant something other than what you've said and done. We have to make a decision on this matter, it's so grotesque. I would like to repeat: we have to assume that it is essentially unique in Norwegian case law, and we simply cannot find ourselves in the fact that formal considerations prevent a new injustice from being imposed on all the atrocities that have been shown in the past, which are the background to the committee position and the debate we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e472	The representative, Hernæs, is today in moral Harmony and uses his entire body language to express how those who disagree with him are driven by an ice-cold cynicism — they actually lack morals, and they stand for a grotesque cause. I think the representative could moderate himself somewhat in the description of those who are in majority in this Chamber. I also think it is bold that the representative, Hernæs, makes himself a spokesman for the knowledge that others have not gained, and that leads him to say that he requires someone's head in a barrel. I find it somewhat difficult to understand that it is necessary to use such powerful expressions. On the other hand, I think it could be very interesting if the representative could tell the Stortinge whether the proposals he represents are a review of the courts, or whether they are not. It's interesting to know. And if it's not a review of the courts, what is it? I will not be morally disgusted with the fact that the representative Hernæs has a different position than the undersigned in this matter, but it could have been good to have calmed it down and got an answer to the right questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e479	The representative Marthinsen opens by saying that I am ‘in moral Harmony’. Yes, I acknowledge that. I am sincere in – use the word – Harmony in this matter. Because I think it in all its character is unique in its kind. When Finn Kristian Marthinsen claims that I say that others lack morals, that's not my conclusion, but I understand that the representative Marthinsen can find out how to characterize it that way. And then there's a specific question about whether we view this as a review of the courts. I just get to quote what the majority itself says: ‘The majority refers to the existence of rules on reduced-price rates based on the Tax Payments Act, but the decision in such cases falls within the competence of the relevant tax administration bodies.’ It's something quite different than going to the courts. And I think I have reason to believe that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum will also have an opinion on that side of the case. What remains is the huge challenge of Finn Kristian Marthinsen – that there has to be a review of the courts to get this done. Then there remain unanswered questions: Do the representatives of the Christian People's Party, like the Central Party, want the tax charge to be waived, and in that case how will they initiate or recommend that it do so, other than recommend to the Government to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e497	I register the representative Hernæs' vocabulary in terms of characterising the majority's views on this matter. I can do little about that, but I'm asking that he actually respect our honest and sincere intention that has been expressed in our posts. What really surprises me is that the Right Party, which, at least in some contexts, wants to stand up and emphasize exactly the importance of the role of the Storting vis-à-vis the courts, is now suddenly leaving that principle in relation to a concrete case. So I would like to remind the assembly that after the Liland case and the problems of resuming that case came up, the undersigned and the representative Jan Simonsen made a proposal in Stortinget to instruct the Government to set up its own appeal court to decide on resumption requests. Then the party failed on the right. Then suddenly you should ask the government to assess it. If one has understood the problems that followed in the wake of the resumption of the Liland case, it should be stated that this is not acceptable and supported our proposal. They didn't, and that's why I want to remind the representative here next.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e509	It's always nice to get reminders. But if I were to understand Nymo correctly, he is concerned that this tax charge should be waived. There can then be no goal to talk about the snow that fell last year, when we have the opportunity to go into the matter today. Nymo is absolutely right, he can do little with my vocabulary. What he can do about, he apparently won't do anything about it. Indeed, he can do something very easily to contribute to a reduction in the tax burden. Then he expresses amazement at the alleged blending of the role of the Great and the Courts. He says ‘suddenly in relation to a specific matter’. This is not a sudden concrete matter. This is a matter which, in its entirety, is unique in Norwegian case law, and it is of little credit to the same case law. Through one or perhaps two-three people's work, it has been ensured that most of the injustice was remedied. And then you should not be able to ask the relevant Council of State to help this get a solution, so that there will be no new injustice on top of the other! If we do not have matters that are worse than the natural position of principle on the role of legislators and courts, then we will not be particularly difficult in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e520	At least it's all right to record that the air is about to get out of the balloon, so that the representative Hernæs gradually moderates his language usage. That's the whole thing. When Hernæs in his reply to me says that it was I who described this with a lack of morals, I must point out that heresy probably does not remember what he himself said, because he was in such harnicity. But I actually wrote down what the representative said about the rest of us. It says attack is the best defense, and that's what happens now. I did not ask what is in the majority position – in fact, I think I know better than the representative Hernæs – but I asked if the representative Hernæs thought this was a review of the courts or not. And I repeat the question, because I think it's all right to get an answer to that. He can give it from this pulpit. Otherwise, I also don't think it's important to make this issue a question of morality, cynicism, or grotesque action by dissenting people. That's not what this is all about. That is why I will once again give the representative Hernæs the opportunity to concentrate on what the matter actually concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e529	The last call I take with the greatest joy. What this case is about is whether or not to waive a tax charge of 1,1 million. kr to Tore Sandberg in the Liland case, and whether the Stortinget will pay NOK 200000 in cheap compensation in the same case. That's what the matter is. And if the representative Marthinsen realizes that the air is about to go out of the balloon in relation to that main question, I'm very much hoping that it's not his own opinion he's expressing. That air in the balloon we have to maintain. So he asked me a question. I actually thought there had to be an opportunity to answer a question by referring to the majority who have expressed what, of course, is also my view. The answer is no. I believe that this is not a review, and that must be what the majority also believes in their remark in the vote. Why else, in all the kingdoms of the world, have they not written that in relation to the tax law it is a review of the courts, as they write in connection with § 438 concerning the tax case in question? In the isolated, demarcated matter, I agree with that majority, and I hope that's all right. I don't have to repeat that quote and, of course, don't use the word 'harnic', but I understand that Finn Kristian Marthinsen feels distressing that I agree with him in that wording. I am now, however.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e539	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e542	Tore Sandberg is a person who there is every reason to look up to, yes to admire. He is a everyday hero who has sacrificed several years of his life and huge sums of money to ensure justice for a convicted killer, who turned out not to be a killer anyway. Tore Sandberg should have received a medal and an economic recognition gift, yes an honor gift, from the state, which would at least cover the expenses he has had in winning with his cause. Of course, the size can grant as much money as the Storting wants for anything and for anyone, and still does it. Of course, there is no review of the courts. A court assesses whether a person has a legal claim. In Stortinget there is no need for a legal right to grant money or to oblige the Government to do so. A unanimous Justice Department points out that Liland would not be cleaned without the voluntary efforts of Sandberg and the Ekroth family, and adds that the resolution of the murder of justice has a major societal significance. Despite the current situation, there are still no public schemes to ensure possible victims of the murder of a lawyer or assistance from other types of expertise. The majority has previously refused to deal with a proposal from the Progress Party to put down a commission that would go through incests to see if there were cases that could give reasonable grounds to assist in designing a resumption desire. It says something about Storting's lack of willingness to help potential victims of the murder of the judiciary. Tore Sandberg acted on his own initiative and on his own initiative, and he has got nothing left for his efforts except for a gift from Liland himself, which was not great enough to cover his expenses, and now he is in danger of having to pay taxes for this gift. It will obviously be particularly unfair and disproportionate in printing. For most of the Nordics, it would probably be quite unreasonable for Sandberg, after his voluntary efforts, to stand still with an economic loss. Carl I. Hagen's proposal aims to ensure justice and prevent Sandberg from becoming the losing party. For the Progress Party, it is not essential how the State supports Sandberg, the most important thing is that he receives the support he should receive. I note that the majority of the Judicial Committee uses purely formal reasons for not supporting the proposal of the Right and the Progressive Party that the Government should contribute to the remission of the tax charge due to the liland gift to Tore Sandberg. It is sad that formalism should be used to prevent a reasonable solution in the form of reasonable financial support for Tore Sandberg. But at the same time, I am pleased that the representative Tor Nymo on behalf of the Central Party and the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party believes that it would be particularly unfair if Sandberg had to pay taxes for the gift from Liland, and that the representative Vidar Bjørnstad, on behalf of the Workers' Party in his statement, stated that there were good grounds for reasonableness for Sandberg to be subject to its tax, while stressing that the decision-making authority is not in Stortinget. And these statements from the main speakers of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, together with the very clear statement from the representative Hernæs and my own statement, mean that the legislators give relatively clear signals to the body that is going to decide Sandberg's tax case, and I therefore hope and believe that this tax body will take it into account in its assessments. I take this up with me the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e563	Jan Simonsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e566	From the point of view of the matter presented in the committee position, and as argued by the majority, I should like to clarify why the Left vote for the minority's proposal. We're de facto voting for something I'll call lex Sandberg. We have a situation – a very special situation – in which an individual who has made an outstanding effort to clean up a case that was a murder of the judiciary has become entrenched, because we either do not have laws that are precise enough to capture the situation – it is evident from the considerations of the Supreme Court – or because in other ways we cannot find the solutions. So you can ask the question, what do you do? Then, most often — and that is probably the usual thing in this country — you can lean back and say that it was a sin. But now I choose with the minority – and I perceive de facto with a majority – to go a path where you can find a solution, which I call lex Sandberg, in the absence of a better expression. that we ask that by acting in a legally correct way, a solution is found to keep Sandberg harmless for its highly social activities. You can always say in one case that this will create precedent. I don't know if it creates precedent in the social landscape to make the kind of effort that Sandberg has made. I guess if it were to trigger a precedent, we would live in a very happy country, because then we would have such a huge selection of sacrificing citizens who almost risk everything they have to help others, that it would itself be an eternal answer to a value commission. So I don't think, unfortunately, that the risk of a comprehensive social precedent is present, but perhaps enough so that someone, once for each generation maybe, makes an effort similar to what has happened in this case. With regard to the formal and legal aspects of the case, and that is something you have to take seriously in a country that is to be governed by law, I feel that it is from the various parties who have expressed themselves in the matter, created openings to find a solution that allows you to get out of the matter. And I think that Simonsen's representative summed it up in an excellent way, among other things. to refer to the wording ‘in particular unfair’, which is then included in the Tax Directorate’s Communication No. 5/1998, where you can do a so-called relaxation. I'm not going to go into anything more than saying that it's possible to get out of it, and if that's the end result in the case, there's probably no basis for any of us to raise the voice more than necessary, but then I was glad that that's the result. The representative Simonsen made a summary of the representatives' names and parties, and I am adding myself to the list in the sense that I am also voting for the proposal for security. I do it because this case has engaged me very strongly, and because I don't think we in Norway are particularly good at taking care of those who become some kind of everyday life heroes when that's the situation. Without comparison, once as Minister of Transport, I had to promote a case for Stortinget in order to keep an old man in Kristiansand harmless because they had taken the house from him to a road development that later did not take place. In fact, it was absolutely necessary to promote a separate proposition to the Stortinget in order to grant NOK 100000. But I did it with full conviction, and I see the matter we're facing here, is basically much bigger and more important, and that's the background of my vote. But I am pleased to note that it seems across parties in the hall to be a willingness to find a solution when voting is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e579	When I promoted this proposal, it was based on a relatively strong belief that this would be unanimously adopted by the national assembly of the country, and that the circumstances were such that no matter what kind of government and accumulation you have, you will never be able to cover up any conceivable situation by legislation. So there have been two laws here, both of which give priority to the state. The first law was that the costs of the case could not be attributed to Tore Sandberg because there was no employment agreement between Liland and Tore Sandberg. So it wasn't Liland who had engaged Sandberg. Therefore, it was refused to cover the costs. It was necessary to limit the costs. The second, and a completely different law, is about taxing gifts, and also where the state's interests are obvious, that one cannot pay one's bills and call it a gift so that the recipient can thereby avoid the tax liability. It's natural. But when this occurs in what is probably the greatest murder of justice in the previous century, where Tore Sandberg on his own, and together with the husband and wife Ekroth, gets to know and work on the matter, and gets the murder of justice solved, he meets these two laws, and I think that's clearly unfair. I am pleased that most of those who have spoken also agree. And then you should be able to cut through in an unbureaucratic way. There is no one who has claimed that the Storting can only adopt a cheap substitute. We did not, and we have therefore joined in the committee to a joint proposal together with the Right that will give the same result. It has been pointed out that it would also be taxable if Sandberg had been able to cover the costs. And there the courts say that it would have been covered had the law been different. There is no review of the courts; it is simply a national assembly which has not given the courts the opportunity to grant costs. It is the Storting that has not given the law, and the Government that has not proposed it, so that it would in fact be possible to cover the costs. There is no review of the courts. On the contrary, it is the Storting that, by granting the allowance or supporting the proposal that exists, takes the consequence of its own mistakes earlier by not providing for legislation that allows a court to impose liability. So it is the Storting that corrects an error that the Storting's inadequate legislation has previously caused, and that has resulted in this result. There is no review of the courts. The courts shall, at all times, give judgment under the laws of the Grand Duchy, and when the Grand Duchy has given a law which does not allow the courts to do what they themselves wanted, it is the Grand Duchy's responsibility to correct. The Bureau was probably also mentioned in the debate. I guess you can't assume that there's another case where some zones are a life sentence that's wrong. Because that's the only precedent, that there are many other things of different grades. The precedent is in the case also something that is legal, and there will be no legal or legal precedent if the Stortinge had, if necessary, adopted the proposal I made. There had been no legal precedent. So it's talked about, as I said instead, that it would be tax if it had been recognised as legal costs. Then the amount would be SEK 1⁄2 million. kr higher, for the costs were 1620 million. kr. The background to the amount that we've come to is just that we've taken into account that this would really be covering all the costs, actually net. That's why these numbers are a little bit different. I think it's a little bit grumpy. I think this proposal should have been accepted unanimously by the Stortinget. Instead, someone has come up with some bureaucratic carnival, completely unimportant for the moral dimension. Even though we've said what we've said, there's another body that makes the decision, and then the end result can be that whoever solved this case is nevertheless being penalized for it by society. I think that's very, very sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e594	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2337]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e608	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e617	Sitting on the Justice Committee is very interesting in several ways. One is that you have different types of things for treatment. It's not just to lay down penalties, discuss police, discuss prisons or courts. This case concerns legal rights for transsexuals, and the Committee has focused on the treatment of transsexuals, i.e. Gender change and nothing else, although we know that there are many other questions that come to mind on the occasion of the case. I would like to refer to the main issues related to the treatment of people who want to change their gender, and that it is primarily within the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The Committee points out that today, gender migration operations can be carried out with his consent in accordance with medical indications. To that end, I would like to stress that the general rules on specialist health care and patient rights currently safeguard transsexual access to treatment in line with those in need of health care. Reference is made to the Law of 2 July 1999 No. 63 on patient rights § 2-1 on the right to necessary health care. This provision provides patients with the right to the necessary health care if certain conditions are met. The Health Minister assumes by letter to the Committee that transsexuals who wish to change sex will often be able to meet the conditions and fall under the right to necessary health care. Furthermore, reference is made to the fact that the Rikshospital today has an offer for this patient group where, among other things: are engaged psychiatrists, where new patients on the waiting list are evaluated and where patients waiting for surgical treatment can be sent abroad, for example Belgium, which has expertise in gender conversion. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that, despite the fact that different conditions relating to transsexuals appear to be covered by general legal provisions, the Ministry will nevertheless consider the need for a special law in this area in order to provide, where appropriate, clear guidelines for transsexual and sex switching operations. How individual parties will submit to a special law will be returned on a later occasion. We also notice that, among other things, shall be examined how such issues have been addressed in other countries, and we shall at the same time request feedback on this assessment on an appropriate occasion. On that basis and on the basis of the signals given in the opinion of the Minister for Health, we recommend that Document No. 8:35 for 2000-2001 is annexed to the Protocol. Finally, I would like to point out that the Social Committee has an opinion in which they mainly subscribe to the comments of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e634	It may be quite illustrative for transsexual rights in Norway that we are going to spend much less time on this debate than we have done on the debate on whether a taxable citizen in Norway is going to have to pay their taxes. It makes the need to go in and do something here. In 1972, Sweden was given legal rights for transsexuals. West Germany and Italy followed in 1982, and the Netherlands and Turkey in 1985 and 1988. It is quite clear that there is a need for legal regulation also in Norway. One area where there is a need for legal regulation relates to the right to sex change. What we have seen at the Rikshospitalet is an unworthy situation, in which, contrary to what the rapporteur said, it has not been guaranteed any rights at all. Together with Annelise Höegh, I addressed the Minister of Health in April 2000 that the treatment of transsexuals had stopped at the Rikshospitalet. Since then, there has been a fight and an apex for the transsexuals to have a new offer stacked on their legs. As late as yesterday, 19 March, we could see in the NRK program "Puls" that the treatment offer was not yet in place, despite the fact that the director of the Rikshospital presented it as everything was in his best order, when the Social Committee visited the Rikshospital in January. I have to say that while I have been sitting here at Stortinget in this four-year period, there are few issues that have shaken me as much as this one regarding the attitude transsexuals are faced with in Norway and the lack of offers they are facing. To say that rights are guaranteed through different legal frameworks today, such as the Patient Rights Act, is completely wrong. In practice, it is made visible. In addition, transsexuals experience a sharp cut-off linked to the registration of a new person number, in relation to adoption rights, in relation to rights relating to marriages, etc. That means that every person who goes through this has to go their own way to find solutions. We can't have it that way. I must say that the Judicial Committee has dealt with this matter with a hare lab. I believe that they have not at all caught up with the problem raised by the proposal. I had expected at least the Right and the Workers' Party, and I would also say the middle parties – I have no expectations in this case – to have said in common that of course this should be in place. The examples mentioned from other countries make it apparent that Norway is far from other countries in this area. We're almost 30 years behind Sweden. We may be more than 30 years behind Sweden. I am going to ask the Minister of Justice directly about this: Will the Minister of Justice now take the initiative that we in Norway also get legal regulation to ensure not only those who need it, the legal right to have sex change operations on the basis of given criteria, but that they are also guaranteed rights related to the number of persons, in relation to adoption – that all these matters are regulated by a law, so that they are put in place? In my view, the Committee on Legal Affairs is far too vague in view of the fact that this will be put in place. You leave it to the department. Then it is quite natural to ask that question to the Minister of Justice, when the Minister of Justice is present in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e647	The important thing is that we have legal rules that guarantee this group's rights. The Minister for Health, in reply to the Committee, has gone through some of the rules in question. Finally, the Minister of Health also opens up the letter in order to assess the need for a special law. I fully agree that the need for a special law should be assessed. But when you say "appreciate" and not say that yes, we will propose a special law, the point is that it is not certain that it is a special law that is the best way to regulate it, but the important thing is to ensure that the rights are respected and that the various legal rules in force are properly reviewed in order to improve the situation of this group. So it might be that special law is the right way to do it. That assessment has been promised by the Government to give through the letter sent by the Minister of Health to the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e654	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e657	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I perceive that the central point of the Council's response is that there will be a review of the law in this area, and that transsexuals will be guaranteed their legal rights, regardless of whether it becomes in a special law or in other ways. For my part, I have submitted a note that I expect it to happen in the first half of the next growing period. Unless the Council of State has clear anticonceptions towards such a time perspective and wants to comment on it, I expect it to be a realistic time perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e664	Immediately, such a time perspective is not entirely impossible for anyone. But when I don't want to confirm it by silence, it's because, as the representative of Ballo is familiar with, it's about rules and regulations in very many areas. Then it's hard for me to say with certainty that the different ones that have to be involved in it have the opportunity. But beyond that, I agree that during the first half of the next majorisation period, it should be possible to give some sort of status as to how the situation is overall in terms of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e669	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e680	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e689	During the debate, Jan Simonsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, and this is included on page 4 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e692	During the debate, representatives of all the parties who have spoken have stated that there is either a reasonable reason why the tax claim against Tore Sandberg should be waived or that it is particularly unfair whether he has to pay taxes on the gift from Liland. There are fairly clear signals to the tax authorities. On the other hand, the proposal itself has only received support from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, and it will give less clear signals if this is voted down, despite the fact that the justification is purely formal. I would therefore ask that the wording of the proposal be amended so that it is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-20.ana.ud1881e699	Several have not asked for the floor, and we have recorded that Mr. Simonsen has made the referenced proposal for a transmission proposal. It thus receives the introduction ‘Recommendation’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government contribute to: 1st@item: inlistbox The tax charge resulting from Per Liland's gift to Tore Sandberg at 1,1 million. kroner, payable according to. Section 41.2 of the Tax Payments Act. Tore Sandberg is granted a cheap refund of $200,000. The amount is allocated to overhead expenses. 2309 Random expenditure item 1. ‘... The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
