ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e50	The deputy representative of Akershu County, Anita Orlund, has taken the seat. The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e58	In line with the Government's intention to move state institutions out of Oslo, I am pleased to present a proposal that the Maritime Directorate be moved out of Oslo and located in Haugesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e63	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e75	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e89	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after posts by members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e100	In Document No: 8:74 for 2000-2001 it is proposed to review the rules of the Labour Environment Act on overtime work. The aim of such a review is to enhance the existing provisions on overtime work, so that they become more flexible and adaptable to a modern working life. However, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, do not see any need to extend access to overtime work beyond the current provisions of the Working Environment Act. This majority justifies its view that the current framework of the Working Environment Act provides the necessary and sufficient room for overtime work. However, the minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, believe that there is a need for a review of the provisions on overtime work in line with the intentions of Document No. 8:74. This minority therefore suggests that during the 2001-2002 enlargement session, the Government should promote for the Grand Duchy a case of change in the overtime regulation of the labour environment law. The Committee's proposal is that Document No. 8:74 is attached to the protocol for evaluation in the context of a later major and comprehensive review of the current work environment law. The current provisions on the duration of overtime work are regulated in the chapter of the Working Environment Act. X § 50, on the length of overtime work. This determines that the total working time of a day must not exceed 14 hours. Furthermore, overtime work must not exceed 10 hours in a week. In addition, overtime work must not exceed 25 hours for four consecutive weeks and not exceed 200 hours in total in the calendar year. However, undertakings bound by collective bargaining agreements may derogate from the provisions of the Act when the employer and the trustees agree on this, so that up to 15 hours of overtime per week, 40 hours per four weeks and 300 hours per whole calendar year can be allowed. In addition, today's work environment law permits, in exceptional cases, the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to dispensate and allow overtime work up to 20 hours a week and up to 200 hours in six months. In my view, it is important that workers have legal protection against undue pressure on overtime work. It is therefore important to clarify that an embellishment, as outlined in the proposal, should be based on voluntary employment agreements between the employer and the employee. For me, this volunteering is an important element in assessing a more flexible regulation of overtime work. However, at a time when we lack labour in a number of areas, and to the extent that the workers themselves are willing to work more overtime, there should not be too severe legal obstacles to this. As of Document No. The 8-proposal is annexed to the protocol, assuming that the provision in case of overtime work is given special attention to the forthcoming overall review of today's work environment law. I'm taking up the proposal for the minority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e119	Torbjørn Andersen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e122	Only a brief statement from the Workers' Party. Of course, we in the Workers' Party are pleased that the Centre Party supports us so that it becomes a majority in order to get a comprehensive review of the working environment issue on a later occasion. The minority of respondents is to subtract the working time provisions from an overall assessment. We in the majority think that is unfortunate. They say in Document No. The 8 proposal will make these rules more flexible and adapted to modern working life. In this context, I would like to state that it is a priority for the Workers' Party in the future to carry out a greater review of the Working Environment Act and other legal regulations in the field of working environment/and labour law and further develop them towards a more comprehensive labour law. The idea is that such legislation can address issues related to the needs of new groups and provide solutions to future issues. That's what this is about. I also record that the representative Erna Solberg in some reading posts, especially in the mountain newspapers, highlights the problem that she has not received a majority for this proposal. I totally disagree with what has been said by the representative Erna Solberg. This does not apply only to the modernisation and decoration of the provisions of the Working Environment Act in the case of overtime. It's much better that we take a solid review, reduce a sample and present a NOU, and look at this whole question and don't draw out details. That's really what the disagreement is about. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the Center Party supports us, so that it becomes a majority to leave this behind, and that we get a complete review of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e137	The rules that apply yesterday are in many cases useless today. We could equal it or not, but the remoteness captures the same thing. The Christian People's Party does not necessarily mean that people in general should work more overtime. We do not suggest expanding a total frame for overtime work. The Christian People's Party is busy and will fend for statutory protection against undue pressure from employers when it comes to overtime work. But square rules that don't make it possible for employers and employees to find work-adapted schemes are old-fashioned. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and Administration is also aware when he says in a letter to the Committee that the Government will focus on finding more flexible rules for overtime work in a wider review of labour law. But the government has so much time. And the business community in Norway doesn't have it. When the review of the Working Environment Act is scheduled to take up to five years to implement, the Christian People's Party felt that we owe business a faster review to make the overtime domain less detailed and more flexible. The labour shortage is a major obstacle to growth and innovation. At least we have to adapt the rules of these new times. And businesses have to adjust evenly. Small businesses, which are actually Norway's economic and employment backbone, but which are often not tariff-regulated, currently have less frames for overtime than those that are tariff-regulated, actually 100 hours less. That's cork understandable or sensible. It is reasonable and fair that the possibility of agreements between workers and owners will be the same for small, medium-sized and larger enterprises. I recommend the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e156	Today’s proposal for a more flexible regulation of overtime in the Work Environment Act is justified by three different elements of the regulation of overtime in the Work Environment Act. One is that, in the case of the Right, we think that the overtime framework in relation to what can be agreed voluntarily with the companies is too scarce. We believe that they should be able to be increased and that the difference between regulated and non-tariff enterprises should be eliminated. The second is that we think the overtime rules are too detailed to create good solutions and good enough flexibility out there. We believe that within the framework of EEA legislation, we should have more flexible rules. And we believe that the Stortinget was involved in a too narrow detailed regulation of the overtime when the EEA legislation was implemented at the beginning of this large-scale period. The third thing we're trying to address is the question of whether we should apply the overtime adjustments to the kind of actions that we see that, among other things. The nurses' union has done in relation to Haukeland Hospital, and as we know, there are other places, namely regulation of planned or unplanned overtime. In principle, according to the Working Environment Act, you are not allowed to plan more overtime. The problem is that when you go to Haukeland Hospital, located in Leif Lund's home municipality, you will do something to get more patients treated more quickly, and make sure to make a tour that will overtime is planned, and you locally agree with the association at the hospital and where the nurses there say yes, you say no from the central team because it appears that there is planned overtime. For me, it is absolutely impossible to see that you can agree locally on that kind of planning of working time, and then you should be able to block it from the centre. And I think it's completely unreasonable that we have a work environment law that prevents us from using hospital resources in a way that allows us to get more patients treated. That is why I find it urgent to do something about some parts of the Working Environment Act. It's not that this is new. Thus, during the Bondevik government, the three central parties agreed with the Progress Party and the Right to look at these rules, and the so-called Colbjørnsen Committee was reduced, which gave a position on a more flexible working life – that was a divided setting – but where it was said that one should go into and assess more closely some of these areas included in this document No. The 8th proposal. Then I expected a higher pace in the continuation of that work than to wait another five years. When that investigation into a new law on working life had to be given major consideration, it may have been eight years since it was found by a majority in Stortinget that it was necessary to do something about the flexibility of overtime rules! In the meantime, many patients will have to wait longer in line for hospital treatment. There will be companies that have to say no to the job because you don't have the flexibility to take the jobs. There will be companies that have gone under maybe because the framework conditions, where this is one of the elements, will be bad. There are many prophets who say that in 20 years we won't know more than 20 pst. of the workplaces in place and that the tourover will be large. If we do not have good enough framework conditions for the use of labour resources as well, it will contribute to this. We agree that there should be regulation with regard to overtime. There is no doubt that the Right believes that we should regulate overtime. We have to regulate it in relation to the people who work, and we have to regulate it in relation to the safety of the work they do. But today's rules are too detailed, too flexible and are currently being used by some trade unions in a fight against using public resources better in health care and in a way that I think we should have done something with these rules earlier. I'm sorry, therefore, that especially the Center Party, which we agreed a few years ago that there was a need to do something, has now jumped off and said that you want to wait for a new major investigation. I think that's gross. In addition, I ask questions about whether something will be done in relation to a new, modernised working time law, which will not again launch new investigations based on the fact that when it comes to the Colbjørnsen Committee, it was obvious that the parties disagreed reasonably in parts of this area. And getting unanimity among the parties may be difficult in relation to these questions. Here's a question of political leadership, and I'm sorry you don't want to take it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e175	The centre party believes that there is a need for a greater review of the work environment law with a view to a more flexible regulatory framework that is better suited to today's working life. The Committee has been made aware, by letter from the Minister of Labour and Administration, that the Government has as its priority the task of carrying out such a review. We don't need to extract the working time rules, especially now. We think it should be part of a larger context, with the hearings and with the assessments that then naturally follow. The representative of Solberg has developed an area where the work environment laws seem to prevent as good a performance as possible. It means, in particular, the field of health. Let me then stress that in many hospitals it is possible to use the staff better in an organisation than anyone today does. That's also an example of that. Let me give you another example, which I also think illustrates the pressure on employees today. The rapid development of information technology opens up new opportunities for the organisation of different activities both within industry, service provision and primary industries, leading to the emergence of new professions. The relationship between individual freedom for development, life organisation, collective security and solidarity is being tested. The efficiency and conversion pressure is increasing, which makes it more demanding for the individual to develop, to learn and to control himself. This can be stimulating and evolving, but can also lead to e.g. the early burnout of people creates a greater degree of stress, insecurity and danger of exclusion from work. The main problem for more and more people is a lack of time, a lack of time to carry out the necessary tasks of daily living, home life and social life. This presents the traditional link between work, time and location with major challenges. The danger is that the unregulated labour market may preside over the organisation of work in the future, thereby threatening established rights and protection. Here, there are champions of a free market who want a development where laws and agreements get less to say - that doesn't matter to the Center Party. Simplistic versions of current laws and agreements may meet the challenges to some extent, but there is now a clear need to start work on a more comprehensive and holistic regulatory framework for future work. Let me finally underline to the Council of State the comment that the Central Party has in the setting. We mean it's natural to evaluate a collection of laws that apply to working life, in a new law. All or part of the current legislation of the labour environment law, holiday laws, employment laws and the law on the payroll of permits may be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e192	SV, which is a necessary part of the majority behind the vote, largely supports what has been said by the representatives of the Labour Party and the Centre Party in the case. My comments will first and foremost relate to some of the reasons given by the Right for its proposal, which they repeat here in the debate today. It points to the problems in the health sector and that there is a need to spend more time to avoid patients in queues for treatment. I have to say that I react very strongly to it. We know that many of the patients who are in a condition of health stand there because they have worn themselves out in the health care system, because they have already had too tough a working day and too much wear. The struggle in the health care system is not about pushing those who have already stretched the knit far, to stretch it even further. The health care campaign must say that we are going to be able to get a health care service that can both provide treatment to patients and that can be a viable job where it is even to be possible to reach retirement age. We don't get that if the main focus is on allowing more use of overtime. The framework for organizing overtime today is good. It's liberal, and it's possible to make agreements where you can use a vast amount of overtime. In this case, it seems that the right side of Norwegian policy, which in other cases is very focused on family values and that more time should be spent at home with its own children, completely forgets it. Here it is about making those who work in the care professions especially, to work even more. That's what I think is a policy that's not at all related, and I think you're reaping a lot more disability, a lot more sickness, stress and pressure at such a focus in the debate. SV believes it is important to focus on finding a job that is equal to the right to participation and job security, a human working life where it is possible to reach retirement age, and with room for necessary flexibility and adaptations for different types and situations. A modern working life will be slightly different from the previous one, but it does not primarily concern the professions mentioned by the representative Erna Solberg in his post, the professions in the traditional industry or in the health sector. Because there are such jobs where people have to be present, somewhere they have to be in place 24 hours a day. They can neither take the job home nor flex in any way, because the problems are there. SV also sees the need for a review and revision of the Working Environment Act. We have, in a note, submitted the leads that we believe should be part of this review. But we fear that a review now in a somewhat tough climate, where there is also great international and global pressure to weaken workers' rights and to weaken legal regulations that are designed to protect and preserve values that we believe are essential, can lead to a law that takes less care of the values that SV is concerned about, namely to have a human work life. We're looking forward to such a review. We want to say that the law should be strengthened rather than weakened, and we also want to ask that, when you go through the law, you look at whether it is possible to make it something more accessible than it is today. Because, as the representative of the Central Party said, there may be a lot of laws in this area, so it's going to be inconspicuous like that, but there might also be something about the way you write laws, which makes them very inaccessible to those who are going to use them. It is important for legal certainty that the law is such that you do not have to have a master's degree in law in order to be able to exercise their rights and interpret the law correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e205	There may well be lengthy discussions about what is the biggest challenge in business with regard to labour – whether it is that there are not enough flexible arrangements to make more effective use of labour, or whether it is the major outburst, the large increase in long-term sick leave, the increasing number of unretired people, which makes it impossible to adapt, not only in terms of work, but the whole pattern of life, to the changing situation in working life. I think these challenges are a little interconnected. In fact, I also believe that it is possible to develop a labour law in which you can look at working life in a long life course, and to see that, in certain periods of your working life, you have the opportunity to exercise more flexibility than you have in other stages of your working life. This must also be assessed in relation to the overall Norwegian policy of taking care of young children. This is why the issue of working time is quite comprehensive, and we cannot go in and look at it with just one glance. We are for the sake of the whole, and in order for us in the future to be able to meet the overall challenges on the labour market, we need to look at this with a general view. That's why I recommend as much as I can, that this question of course be raised as a priority task in the sample to look at the issues of working life. We're going to try to do the investigation as soon as possible. If one estimates that such a sample – because there are so many major questions that need to be addressed – will have two years to come, we will be able to present a proposition in 2004. If the two-and-a-half years are taken — it of course limits the possibility of doing the job thoroughly enough — it will be possible to present it in 2003. I believe that the Working Environment Act today provides for flexibility. Cooperation agreements with the professional organisations of employees must provide the necessary degree of flexibility to meet the more urgent needs for flexibility, whether it be the care professions, the health services or the rest of the world of work. I agree that there is a need for this revision. I also agree with the representative Karin Andersen, who says that it is a little bit to do that we are now getting a different culture from the law on employment issues, so that the law becomes understandable. This is not just about employees. In fact, employers are also involved. It's really quite hopeless that, in order to handle one of the most important tools in the world of work, you actually have to involve consultants to understand how to act. But it has something to do with the system of the legislator and the law. It must be possible to improve, not only in terms of language, but also in terms of design. This will also be a priority task in the mandate to be given to this sample, namely to make the law available to users as far as possible, so that it can be a tool that we can meet the constant changes we see in the labour market and the way in which we organise the future. There I actually agree with those who say that the changes are happening so quickly that you also need to have legislation that is modern and able to take up these changes continuously. But it's not just working time issues. There are also a number of other issues in relation to the employment environment law, the holiday law, the pay obligation law and a number of other laws that concern important issues in the relationship between legislator, employee and employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e218	There is a need for revision, says the Council of State. He also says that it is necessary to look at the rules for overtime work and that greater flexibility is needed. So it looks like we're a few. There's actually little change that's going on to make it more flexible. We're a few of them about most of it. But it was said that it would take five years to put forward a proposition. Now I hear the Council of State says in 2003. It's two to three years. Do you really want to take such a long time to make these small changes? When we realize that the changes out there are happening quickly, I can't understand why we can't turn around and make changes a little bit faster in here. I think it would have been useful for the labour market, which, after all, depends on the legislation that is taking place within this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e225	We agree that it is necessary to look at the legal provisions in order to increase flexibility, while at the same time analysing the consequences of flexibility for individual people, for individual workers, for families and for working life. That's why we want to see this in a context. In fact, I believe that we best care for the total interests of society if we see this in a context, without running this as a separate project while at the same time looking at the Working Environment Act as such. I actually think 300 hours of overtime per year, which in itself is the maximum, is quite a lot, compared to what is the total workload. But then there's a question about how to pick up these 300 hours. I think we all agree on that. It seems that many employees, employers and Stortingen agree that this needs to be looked at. But we're very concerned that this is looking at in a larger context. I would warn against it being detached from the major social issues that a regulation of working life through labour-environment law, or a new labour law, actually represents. We don't have to do it so that we suddenly, in order to get something fast, do something that actually destroys the long-term work. Once again, I would like to stress that we should be able to discuss what is the biggest challenge: whether there is flexibility in relation to the labour market, or whether it is the high level of sick leave and disability pensions. There is no doubt that there is a link between working life, family life, social life, working time and the issue of exclusion from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e234	Understanding a law is not just about how the law is written, but also about understanding the reasons for the regulations in the law, and you have to respect them. If you meet a licensed yard worker who suddenly gets a repair job on the yard, who comes back to work and after one week is told that he will not be allowed to work anymore because he now stops at the roof of the overtime regulation on a weekly basis – after having been on leave for more than one month earlier – it is clear that it is not easy to see the understanding of the law of the person, who might have thought it would have been good to get the overtime money in his wallet and feel that he had it a little free. It shows that the system we have is a little bit flexible. One of the reasons why we want to look at this quickly is that we're in a process, which, not least, the Kosmo Council is talking about, where there's a need for rapid renewal in our society and for better use of resources. We have then identified a lack of flexibility in these rules as one of the problems, both in the public sector and in business. I agree that the supply of labour may not be among the biggest problems in working life – there are many others that we have discussed earlier – but it is one of the problems that makes it difficult to use resources around, both in the public and private sectors, well enough. The Labour Party has said that they want to carry out this statutory audit, and they talk nicely about the desire for mobility and flexibility, and what they are going to get in here. But then we see what the LO Congress actually said about this: there was little interest in getting a full review of the case. And all the demands that were made meant much less flexibility in the law and less ability to improve resource use and better solutions. My question to Kosmo State Council today is: Who – or what – is going to decide? Is it the majority that expressed itself at the LO Congress, or is it the ambitions of the Council of State for this audit work? [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] Who will decide on the Labour Party's policies in terms of creating a more flexible labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e243	The President will remind you that the speaking time in a line exchange is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e246	It is the Stortinget that determines what is society's policy in this area – not the social partners, not the ministry. Of course, the signals coming from Stortinget will be taken with us when we design the mandate for the sample to work on these issues. And then it's important that you have a sample that goes with the parties. In my opinion, it would be completely irresponsible if you did not have a wide-ranging sample that had a party representation so that both the employee and the employer sides had the opportunity to influence the preparatory legislative committee. What is the Labour Party's policy in this area is determined by the national meetings of the Workers' Party and the members of the Workers' Party. To the extent that, through professional political cooperation, the social partners are involved in these issues, I consider it to be an advantage. I think it would be quite difficult to rule in this country if all the decisions were to be made in this house without having taken care to extract the competences of the population, among other things. through the organisations and to have fruitful cooperation. So I'm a little concerned that this is done with an overall glance. Of course, it is not only the wording of the law that matters, it is also important to respect the law. But I have to say that if you take advantage of the potential of today's law, in cooperation with the social partners, you already have the opportunity to reach a lot longer than some small businesses have already done. But then you have to stimulate cooperation and not just the right of the employer to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e257	I look forward so far to the greater overall review to which it is put. But like Apelthun Seele, I think it might take a long time, because there is no doubt that some of the provisions of the Working Environment Act are outdated in several areas. Today, Norwegian businesses are mainly small enterprises, and unfortunately they – both employees and employers – have limited knowledge and knowledge of some of the provisions of today’s environmental legislation. We were presented with a report for a short time back that showed that the work environment law is not very in-use – and opened – around the various businesses. Unfortunately, many of the provisions were largely ignored. It also covered the provisions governing overtime work. It is enough that several places are working a lot more overtime than the law permits, and only that indicates that the law is actually being broken with regard to the provisions on overtime work. Of course, we must respect the laws of this country. But when a law is old-fashioned, rigid and out-of-date, it's time for a revision. With regard to the major review that has been notified and to which reference is made, I hope that it will also be included here that simplifications are to be made in the Labour Environment Act, for back to what I said instead: Many employers, including many employees, have problems in understanding the content and dealing with some of the complex formulations found in the very comprehensive Labour Environment Act with some 300 related regulations. So I want to ask the Council of State: does such a review also involve a simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e266	In fact, I believe that all legislation in this country, whether on employment or other issues, must have the basic principle of simplification – reducing the need for regulation and reducing the need for guidance in relation to regulations. In my view, in a modern democracy with such a high level of competence in the population, it is entirely unnecessary to have legislation that needs to be followed up with one to the extremely high number of regulations. And in order for people to understand the regulations, they must be guided. And then finally, it becomes pretty impenetrable. But it's not just about the work environment law, it's unfortunately also about a number of other laws. So you could say that if people had the whole and full overview of everything that was, everything was fine. I had almost said that if everyone were kind and good to each other, there was no crime either. We can have that as a legitimate wish. But then we know that in certain areas, among other things. in order to safeguard both the rights of the employer and the employee in a party relationship, we need to have regulation through law and collective bargaining. It's quite obvious that for us, it's an ambition to go in and make this as simple and as easily understandable as possible. But to get it done, it also requires an exposure. There has to be an outside commitment, both on the employers’ and the employees’ side, to get an understanding of the issues. That's the only way I think we have an opportunity to make laws that hit the population. Without commitment, it will be that the laws are kind of being trampled down their heads, and I strongly advise against that. Therefore, a party-wide sample is the way to go in order to achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e275	I share the concerns of the Council of State when asking questions about what is today the biggest challenge in working life – the flexibility of employers to use the labour force according to their needs or aspirations, the lack of flexibility and the lack of inclusive restraint for those who want to participate in the labour market. There's a different opinion in this congregation about that. I thought we had clarified that today. Here is a different attitude to what is right's starting point for making this proposal: a larger feature of the so-called 'just in time' principle. My question to the Council of State is: does he get much feedback from the fact that the law is not being felt flexibly enough today? So I want to claim that the Council of State has a good starting point, as he now produces his work. He'll conduct a thorough review. He's a little fuzzy, I thought, when it comes to propulsion. He does something for a selection. In the letter to the committee I mentioned earlier, he says that he would think it would be possible to make a bill for the Storting during 2004. When it is clear that everyone really agrees that an audit is needed, I will ask him to confirm more clearly the progress he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e282	I believe that if we are to have a good future labour law – this is a comprehensive work – that is simple, the sample, which also includes representatives of those who are going to practise the law gradually, should have two years on it. Then we can put forward a proposition in 2004. If you want to do this faster, you might be able to do it in a year and a half, but then you lose something on the road. I'm not recommending that. I aim to reduce this sample during the summer. I intend to give the sample a two-year deadline. And I am aiming for the mandate to contain what is described in a letter to the committee, plus what has been said here today. In the light of this investigation, we should be able to promote a good and forward-looking law, which not only has flexibility in relation to the issues of working life and working time, and it is in itself that one can take on new challenges, but also in and on all other areas – chemical issues, in relation to dangerous products, working time has been mentioned. There are a number of very important questions. Perhaps the most important thing is: how will the young people of the future be able to deal with an active working life where they have a high level of work capacity during certain periods, while at the same time having a high level of care? Key challenges lie in facilitating the choice of young people in the future. That is what I expect us to do in connection with this legislative work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e289	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e294	Governments are obviously optimistic, but I've heard a lot of government councils over the years I've been on the Storting, which have been far too optimistic about comprehensive tasks. I would like to say to the final remark by the Council of State – that it should be a problem for the Grand Duchy, for the legislator, that young people have a lot of labour and perhaps want to work more than allowed overtime, while at the same time having a lot of care – that it is not the task of politicians to balance such a question! We have to leave that to the individual. If you want to regulate such issues, you get complicated legislation and detailed legislation, which the Council of State just wants to get away from. The less freedom human beings get, and the more regulated a society is, the more regulations and guidance make it. So that's the whole setting that emboldened the Council of State's last problem, which I think it's time to rebel against. I cannot help but understand that there is a relatively limited problem here that is raised — overtime — and I think the Government is underestimating itself quite strongly if it does not also assess this overtime problem, and it can involve neighbouring questions. This proposal only states ‘The Government asks the Government to review the rules’. You can take a side look at other issues when they are going through this. They do not have to address all the world's questions through NOW, consultation and proposition, etc. I think it is essential here that there is a voluntary system, and one must, of course, have such confidence in the individual person today in such a varied labour market as we have been given – different education, different age – that the individual can assess to a greater extent the workload he wants to have, how he wants to prioritise his life, to what extent he needs income, etc. I hope that social democracy can gradually become a little more modern and pursue a little trust policy, have confidence in the individual enlightened man's ability to orient himself in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e308	Well, it sounds like flexibility for many is just a question of flexibility for employers. To the same extent, there is a demand for flexibility from workers, perhaps with different desires and in different phases of their lives. For example, when you're young and you don't have care obligations, it might be fun to work intensively and get longer periods of free time, and get the opportunity to travel and do other things. There are many people I know who have been in the situation that they wanted to. Instead of being permanently employed, they have chosen to work flexibly in the labour market, to contract on a contract basis, etc., because it has been too difficult in the labour market to obtain such solutions. But that was not what provoked me to take a new post. It was the post from Karin Andersen, who had obviously misunderstood parts of my post. My justification when I address the health sector issue is on one of the three themes addressed in the proposed document, namely the regulation and use of the provisions that overtime planning is not allowed. This means that in the short term there are problems in creating tour arrangements that may then go beyond the normal working day, which means that there is agreement between the parties at local level to do so in order to be able to use the operating rooms effectively, for example. in Haukeland Hospital, as I mentioned. One of the problems that one cannot do is, in fact, that one uses the other parts of the law in the healthcare system, after which one can impose overtime, and do so at short notice. If overtime is planned over a certain period, you know, for example. relative to the family how working time becomes and planning in relation to the care obligations becomes easier. We do not believe that working on average should end up working much more overtime than the rest of the time, but we believe that precisely that rule prevents some solutions in terms of flexibility within the healthcare system, especially when it is obviously used as a wage policy tool by some trade unions, and then we should have done something about the definitions of that part of the legislation. Because I think it's a lot worse for a nurse with care obligations to be told that tomorrow you have to work overtime to get a solution, which is the basis for it in vital areas, than to have been able to deal for a long time with a planned overtime that allows you to actually organize your everyday life around it. As a baby mother, I would like to say that it is not so difficult to work a lot. What's difficult is when everyday life suddenly changes and you have to adapt everything around you to that fact. In fact, many people have that burden in health care today, perhaps just because there is too little flexibility in other areas. It is the surprising overtime problems that often become difficult to deal with if you have care obligations. At all, we have to think individually and that people are different, and that the framework should not fit a Stone Age where all the jobs in industrialised operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e321	Erna Solberg is probably right in that it may be difficult to deal with overtime at short notice, that it can cause many practical problems. But the problem of saying that you should have a health care system where you systematically plan for overtime is that you plan to have people work more than the normal working day. The problem is that there are too few people and that you have too little capacity. It's also one of the problems with the health care system, that you have to demand that people work in the potential small job breaks, and then you have to mess this up into a whole that becomes difficult to get together. The turns in a lot of places are almost blown up, and that's the main problem. And if you had done something about the health care system in such a way that people who worked there didn't get so much disease and stress damage, and so much absence because of it, you would have had a completely different resource to plan for. So it's that part of this business is of an acute nature. That's how it's always going to be in the health care system, and you can't plan it. You have to take that off, and it's done. The fact that it is made impossible and that it is not done seems to me to be a very strong exaggeration. So it's the way the law of the labour market is negotiated by the parties, and it's the way it's going to be used to improve its working situation and ensure its working conditions. That it is viewed as one-sided negative and a sort of combatant in an acute situation, I think I am attaching to those who work in the health care system and who enforce this regulation, quite graceful motives. And I don't think that there's any reason for the Storting to give people in the health care community frivolous motives, when they sometimes have to put a bomb on them because they work and strive to carry out the tasks we've imposed on them with too tight a frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e330	At the outset, we tried to keep this debate at a more general level in relation to subtracting the working time provisions from an overall assessment. But I think the representative Erna Solberg is now starting to use part of his speaking time to get into completely different things. She talks about flexibility and rotational arrangements, and uses an example from my county, Haukeland Hospital. I have not heard about that agreement and do not know it, but it is clear that it is important when it comes to making agreements, that they are concluded between all parties in a hospital, and that we get an efficiency, and that it does not only apply to one party. If we look at this Document No. On the 8th proposal and at the time of the vote, we have the third indent, where the right-wing proposers believe that voluntary agreements should be concluded ‘between the individual employee and the employer’. Here we are on wild roads! It's almost like if I work at a company and want to work overtime, I make an agreement and get it, while my neighbor, who doesn't want to, shouldn't do it. It's going to be hopeless. When Erna Solberg uses the example of changing working time creating problems, this proposal will create huge problems for people out of work, I think. And if it is that today's system and changed working time regulations create problems for people, it shows that there is a flexibility today – if Erna Solberg's claims are correct, which I strongly doubt. This proposal from the Right is the same as the one that the Right always comes with, namely to thin out workers as much as possible. Erna Solberg was able to talk a little bit about the Right Programme's proposal on the sick pay scheme for people. If you get sick for a whole year, the Right will take away NOK 30,000. Maybe she could talk about it instead of talking about extending the overtime provisions so that you should thin out the workforce even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e341	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e355	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other lots 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after posts by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e366	In Document No: 8:82 calls on the Socialist Left for legislative proposals to ensure low and regulated rental rentals in social dwellings. This is an approach that the party SV has had in the past, in other documents, in which at least to some extent it seeks to link its social housing policies to the building stock. This is contrary to the majority, who have focused individualised needs-tested schemes through state and municipal housing support. It is claimed that this is the situation, there is a structural shortage of Norwegian housing stock and housing policy, and it is shown that 4 pst. of the total volume is public rental dwellings. The plural setting is in line with a relatively comprehensive response letter from the Ministry, which comments on the various aspects of the proposal. The letter states that a government considers the proposals to be an appropriate means of achieving the good intentions assumed to be the basis for the document. The majority agree with this. The majority also agree with Regeringen that a low public proportion of Norwegian rental dwellings should not be produced as a structural shortage in the Norwegian housing market. It is claimed by the Ministry that the proposal does not contribute to the efficient use of municipal housing resources, that the proposal does not help to stimulate municipalities to increase social housing and that the proposal violates an important governance principle in the relationship between the State and the municipality. This has not been disputed by the majority, and it can then stand as a majority view. The Ministry also refers, under the ‘Effective use of municipal housing resources’ approach, to a sample survey in which care homes and municipal housing have been assessed. The study showed that 73 pst. by municipalities, rents are determined on the basis of the principle of cost-effective rentals. This with cost-effective rentals has been put in focus, and the majority are concerned that state subsidies on the housing side should benefit users. Now, in a subsequent comment, the Right and Advance Party say that: «provides that when government subsidies are granted to private landlords, this must lead to rents which are significantly under the rent provided that they cover current costs and maintenance». The last clarification was probably made at the end of the Committee's proceedings. It is such that the other comments made by the parties discuss the problem of «significantly under rent» stopped in return for current costs and expenses. But that's the way the clarification came. If I'm allowed to joke a little bit about the volume in the setting and refer to a story from North Norway, it's like there was a parachute that disappeared during a visit. A letter was written that problematized this. Then the fall knife came about naturally, but the letter was sent anyway. I might think that a little bit of the setting bears the mark of it, and that the various parties' mentions of this lack of clarification in the Right's note could of course have been waived when the "threat knife" was fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e391	I don't think anyone in this room disagreed with the idea that everyone had housing where the costs were relative to income. But it's not like that. The Workers' Party is committed to continuing a policy that enables people to own their homes. It's not a minus at 76 pst. by the Norwegian people live in owner-occupied dwellings. That's good. Nor should we make it so that owning the dwelling means that people do not have to bear bills, including the house costs. It's not just the tenants who have it tough on the housing market today. To remedy this situation, more dwellings, including several rental homes, have to be built, especially in the press areas. However, we must be most concerned about those who, for economic reasons, do not have the opportunity to obtain owner-occupied housing. But we must not get into the situation that at Stortinget we are going to determine what municipalities are going to rent. Municipalities must be free to determine the rental for their own rental dwellings within the limits of the rental legislation. In the setting, SV writes that the government is going up to the Right Housing Policy as practised in Oslo. This is wrong. A public sample recommended through a NOW to base the principle of cost-effective rentals. For those households that do not pay such rent, state housing, possibly supplemented by municipal housing and ultimately social office grants, may be necessary to ensure that the individual household has a sufficient amount to cover living. Market rental or renting means that, in addition to covering own costs, the municipality also takes out the additional profits resulting from the scarcity of rental dwellings. This is not in line with what the Government believes, but the local self-government makes it possible for them to decide for themselves which policies to follow in the municipalities. It is also important that municipalities have an effective use of their municipal housing resources, and I believe that most municipalities will say that they do. Nevertheless, one cannot say that the situation in Oslo is good when it is that in approx. 3 000 dwellings live in people who have contracts that cannot be terminated, and many of them no longer need financial assistance. Any introduction of legislation to ensure long-term low rent will also benefit such households, and it cannot be the intention of the proposal that Karin Andersen and Kristin Halvorsen have promoted. In Trønder-Avisa, a municipal tenant in the municipality of Verdal appeared and had views on the price level of municipal housing. It did not concern this person directly, he said, because he had 14 000 kroner paid in disability benefit, but the other tenants had problems with the rent. It may be true that the municipality has the policy that there are people living there who get paid 14 000 kroner, but then the municipality must also be free to say what the rent is. At least it can't be the case that we're creating a code that makes those with such high incomes get reduced rent. The municipalities themselves believe that they have a proper policy. In today's newspapers, however, we see that Oslo was too critical, and probably other municipalities are also. In the comprehensive letter from the Council of State attached to the suspension, it is said that we still need to improve the means of housing policy, so that even economically disadvantaged people can live in good housing, whether they are owner-occupiers or tenants. From the Workers' Party's point of view, we agree with this, but once the Housing Policy Survey has completed its work, we can take a look at the issues and get a review of them. As I said, we refer both to the letter and our comments in the vote and agree that the proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e412	The Christian People's Party is in the majority who in no way doubt the good intention of the SV's proposal. But we do not think the proposal is appropriate, and we agree with the Council of State in what she says in the letter to the Committee. The Christian People's Party has also participated in the majority and broad consensus we have had on the winding-up of the house rent regulation law through a transitional period of ten years. After all, we only have the strict house rent regulation again, and there were many good reasons why we had to wind up this legislation. The Christian People's Party is occupied by and ends with today's rules which assume that when housing grants are granted for the construction of rental dwellings, the rental enterprise is to be operated on a non-commercial basis. So profit hunting is not going to be conducted in this area. The Christian People's Party also agrees that a significant proportion of the rental homes we have for young and disadvantaged people are realised in cooperation between municipalities and local housing communities. Then you can't cut off e.g. the housing law from being able to allocate part of these rental dwellings to its young members, in which case the housing law will be deprived of the basis for assisting the authorities in addressing the challenges we face in this part of the housing sector. The rapporteur was referring to that 20 p.m. of the dwellings in the Norwegian housing market were always rented out, while only 4 pst. Of these were public owned. So we have a lot of private housing, and most of these are not professional landlords. A lot of people rent out their condominiums, and there's not much business going on in this area. Many of these apartments are reasonable. A housing unit is a private developer. If the level of rental of these dwellings is required to be well below the level of rent, it would be impossible for the housing structure to cover its costs. Such a practice could then scare private operators away from establishing new rental homes. The majority of respondents have said that it is important to ensure that the subsidy element benefits the tenants. However, this does not always mean that the rental level will be significantly below the rental level. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the Council of State that if we agreed with regulations in this area, it would be a bad governance principle between the state and the municipality. I am excited in many other contexts about the Council of State and the Workers' Party, there too, in action, will follow up on delegating power and authority to the municipalities, to the local level, and not taking control on behalf of those who know where the shoe is pressing. Finally, it is important for the Christian People's Party to point out that municipalities often want to create good housing for disadvantaged people. It is not a wrong intention on the part of the municipalities, but often the bad local economy that causes renting housing in the municipal sector to be too expensive. It will therefore be important for the Christian People's Party to follow up on this in the context of the 2002 state budget. We have announced that in the vote, and we are also excited about what concrete things the Council of State will follow up when she writes in the letter to the Committee: ‘However, I will follow closely the development and continue to improve the means of housing so that even economically disadvantaged people can live in good housing, whether they are owner-occupied or rented.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e436	The SV’s proposal to ensure low and regulated rentals in social housing is certainly well intended. But it is hardly particularly appropriate in relation to the intentions of the proposal. The housing and rental market is an area dominated by a great many mechanisms and various economic, private, political and public interests. The main objective of Norwegian housing policy is that everyone should have the opportunity to offer a decent accommodation. That's the way that 76 pst. living in owner-occupied dwellings, there are 20 pst. rental homes, I guess that's 4 pst. by those who are in public ownership. This shows that the private sector is the dominant – and thank you for it – in Norway. However, we see that there are certain problems in achieving this national objective in relation to some disadvantaged groups in the housing market. However, rental regulation that strongly intervenes in the pricing of rentals is unrealistic, as such policy regulation in the long term contributes to the reduction of rentals. This reinforces the problems for all, including the disadvantaged groups, by making renting or building homes very attractive for rental purposes. In order to stimulate increased rental offers and more price-absorbing competition in the rental market, it would be contrary to its intention to do something perhaps close to economic loss-making to the SV proposal. If you grab in and price control the rental income of the owner of the house, so that for example: rental houses for disadvantaged persons may not be economically attractive to the lessor, the rental offer within this segment, whether it be a private or a public lessor, will weave very quickly. However, we all recognise that there is a need for a public effort in the case of disadvantaged groups on the housing market. However, this effort should be directed towards stimulating public or private owners of dwellings for increased efforts, rather than punishing them with stricter price regulation. So if you want to create an imbalance in the rental market, you can only intervene and regulate against market developments at rental prices. Then we get a rental market with a more limited offer, and we get a corresponding increase in the rental price level. The SV’s proposal is to address errors from the end of the day, rather than to remedy the situation of these groups in the housing market today, at the seventh and last stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e453	There is today a great need for rental housing both in press areas and in many districts. It is important to stimulate both municipalities, organisations and foundations, both public and private actors, to increase their commitment. SV today has a great deal of understanding of its proposal. And they're also going to get it from the Center Party. Here, creative suggestions are needed in addition to the traditional tools that we have. But we think there's reason to ask questions about whether one by a rental regulation achieves that there are several rental properties built. We don't think that's the way to go. Let me point to some other grip that has to exist. The local economy needs to be strengthened in order to enable several municipalities to give priority to rentals. It is also necessary to increase both the loans and loan measures from the Husbank deposit facility to the construction of rental and low-injection buildings. The central party took several initiatives in this way in the government, e.g.: there was an increase in the mortgage by NOK 3 billion. We took the initiative for a programme, a cooperation between the state and the five largest urban municipalities on housing for the homeless, a project that I understand the municipal minister is following up. We have given our support to both our own and others' proposals in this room to secure more rentals, but there is still a lot of work to be done. In these days there is a Document No. Eight proposals for consideration, a central party initiative. It goes on that own and spacious plots are often a big obstacle. We thought it was important to get closer to the Post Office’s buildings – the 72 to be sold, and the plots on which they stand – could be used for non-commercial dwellings. I recommend that proposal at the warmest. That's said by more people here already that of them a little over 20 pst. of the dwellings in the Norwegian housing market that are currently rented out is only 4 pst. Publicly owned. For me, it will be a crossroads to go in with regulation, both in relation to all the individuals who are actually helping with some of the most spacious dwellings today – I want to stimulate that kind of housing, all of these condominiums – and especially in relation to building structures. So they're private builders, and we don't have to put ourselves in a situation where we're in danger of stamping out some of these, with the stability that they possess, with the utility element that they make up in a very privatized market. When it comes to municipalities, I would like to stress the concerns that we know about increased rent. There is no such thing as a young development. But then we have to go from this house to make sure that there is a greater similarity between the tasks that the municipalities have today and the funds that are put at their disposal. In my view, it would be wrong if we were to have regulation on rent here and risk that this would actually affect other services that the municipalities use today. But I would like to be like Ivar Østberg, stressing that we will come back to this matter in connection with the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e470	It upsets me that the municipality requires market rent from the worst-placed in society. ‘How can they afford to pay what the market requires?’ asks the Minister of Local Councillor in yesterday’s Newspaper. Yes, that's exactly what this proposal is about: how in the world should people with poor advice have the opportunity to pay market rent? As the law is today, and as the majority on the Grand Duchy obviously still wants to have it, the municipalities with the law can demand market rental in hand, long-term rentals. And they can't afford that, as the municipal minister quite rightly says. So it's the policy of the majority that allows, for example. Oslo Municipality to conduct the inhuman social housing policy as they do. Would better local economy have helped in this? Yes, in some municipalities it had, in municipalities that had a government, where they had been willing to pursue a social housing policy. But in many municipalities, it is precisely the political desire not to pursue a social housing policy. You want a system with some hard-to-measured social dollars for those who don't do it, and then they're going to run from office to office to see if they find out these arrangements and every day are told over and over again: you can't be sure you're going to live where you live next month, and you're going to be so kind to get along, because the way you live your life isn't good enough. I react very strongly to the details in the Council's letter to the Committee, where she is almost blaming the individual for the root of their own economy, and that they cannot afford to pay market rent, for example. in Oslo. It says in the letter that there are very many people who have good advice, but who for other reasons are rotating away the money and are unable to pay the rent. People with poor advice and social problems need to be safe in their own homes. Many live with the threat of being thrown out of municipal rental homes as well. If any of the representatives have been around them, it smells like anxiety and despair around them. A lot of these families have kids. If there are some kids who need a safe place to live, who need not to live with the threat of having to move, change friends, change school, change kindergarten all the time, then there are these kids. And I'm pretty confused about all the crocodile tears that are crying over people with bad advice. All the proposals that are being promoted are being met with counter-proposals. Today, when we propose regulated, low rentals for those who need it the most – it's not at all a proposal to regulate the rentals of all private homes, as someone says here today – we're going to build more dwellings. When SV proposes to grant money to build more dwellings, there is also no majority in favour of it. Then they say that the municipalities should rely on the cost principle. Yes, the cost principle is too expensive for many, and in addition, no regulation ensures that municipalities comply with the cost principle. There is a structural shortage in the Norwegian housing sector. There's too few rental homes, and they're too expensive. If the government is going to follow its policy of building many more homes and spending many billions on grants and loans for this, then it is absolutely essential that we ensure that the money benefits those who need cheap housing. We're not sure about that today. Isn't that a concern of the majority? We can use billions of dollars to build homes, but it's not sure it's going to be the only cheap dwelling of it. How can people afford to live? SV insists that the Government and the majority have given Right in their housing policy. This is because it is said that the means of housing policy should be personalised hereafter. This means that there should be more clientization, as stated in an article she wrote in the Newspaper a few weeks ago by the Labour Party's rapporteur candidate in Oslo, Ann-Marit Soubønes. What is lacking in Norwegian housing policy are many enough cheap rental homes so that those who need it can live there. Today's debate also refers to the fact that there are very many people renting out their private dwelling and that it is cheap. Yes, I want a list of the homes that I can take with me to those who call me and need a cheap place to live, because they live with the heart of their throats and don't know where to put them in fourteen days. So I want that list. There's someone who needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e487	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative, Andersen, has made any proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e490	I forgot, President. Thanks for the reminder. Then I am promoting the proposal from the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e496	The representative then presented a proposal on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e499	I support the commitment of the proposers to ensure the worst-placed better housing, but I do not think the solution is the one proposed by the representatives Andersen and Halvorsen. I must also stress, in particular in view of the recent intervention by the representative Andersen, that there is no basis, either in this setting or in the Labour Party's policy, to say that the Workers' Party supports a policy in which one is to take market rental by those who are the most disadvantaged. There is a great difference between taking market rentals and what a majority support in this position, namely cost-covering rentals. So this SV has no reason to say. I am pleased that a majority supports the Government's policy in this area and rejects this proposal for a document. In reply to the Stortinget I have tried to explain why I believe that such a legislative proposal is not an appropriate means of achieving the good intentions that I believe are the basis for the proposal. But I also have to say, I don't think there are any good things either to accuse the Workers' Party or other parties of crying crocodile tears. It's a real commitment from our side too to do something to this group, but we have a very different recipe on how to do this. This proposal, as it is designed, I do not believe that it contributes to the efficient use of municipal housing resources. It does not help to stimulate local authorities to increase social housing, which must be the purpose. And unfortunately, I don't think it contributes to more housing solutions for those who are actually the most disadvantaged. Most rentals in Norway are private, about 20 pst., and about 4 pst. is publicly owned. It's not that the public owned rental homes have a social character while the others don't. Many of the most reasonable rentals in Norway are in fact available, among others. in this mass of private rental dwellings. The vast majority of municipal dwellings owned in Norway are acquired through loans and housing grants in the Husbanken. It is a goal of the Government that municipalities should have a housing stock adapted to the needs of each municipality. Many municipalities are in the process of developing local housing social action plans that are just putting the need for rental housing into practice. Several of the major cities, where the pressure on the housing market is greatest, are now doing a thorough job in this area, and about 80 municipalities are working on or have completed such plans. I think it's a prerequisite for making a good effort in the field of housing policy. I share the view of Andersen and Halvorsen representatives that more municipalities should have much more rental properties than they have today. The increase in housing subsidies and improvements in housing in the state budget for the current year, which is also part of the follow-up to the document on a more cohesive housing policy, is precisely aimed at getting municipalities to obtain more rental housing for young and disadvantaged people. A study carried out by the House Bank shows that about three out of four municipalities determine rent on the basis of the principle of cost-covering rent. It contributes to the efficient use of resources in municipalities, thus making the real costs of housing and rental income visible to municipalities. These revenues can – and I would also say that many times – be channelled back to residents with low incomes in the form of municipal housing support as a complement to the state housing support to further reduce the stocking charges after further testing and to manage and maintain the housing stock in a good and efficient way. This, I think, also makes sure that the municipalities should at least look after themselves to acquire more rental properties. Because there's no doubt that we need to build more rental homes, but we also need to target it more towards those who need it the most. The State housing aid scheme is particularly important to actively use when determining cost-effective rentals by municipalities. Of course, this is because some of the most economically disadvantaged households are unable to pay a cost-effective rent. In order to reduce the budget of these households to an acceptable level, the system of state and municipal housing is crucial. It should and should act as a hedging network for households with low income. I think it is good that the largest cities also have their own schemes with their own municipal housing schemes that complement the state. It is also absolutely necessary. I am pleased that the majority supports the government's policy so widely, and agree that the model of cost-effective rent and state/municipal housing is the right way to help young and disadvantaged people in rental homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e519	In the letter that many people have referred to, the Council of State refers to a report by Building Research on drafts, where the man-in-law says that the majority of those thrown out can actually afford to pay the rent. It is mainly about difficulties in dealing with one's own economy and for some a difficult life situation. Does the council agree with the manager's description, that most of the people who are thrown out can afford to pay? It goes on to say that in many cases it is primarily about helping to manage the economy better and about changing attitudes. Does the Council of State share that view as well? Is this the Council of State's vision, or is it the manager's vision? It also states that the need for social assistance is important, and that it comes in time, or that the householder gets help into a more appropriate dwelling. Is this the Council of State's vision, or is it the manager's vision? And finally, the Council of State says that, however, it will closely monitor developments and continue to improve the means of housing policy, so that even economically disadvantaged people can live in good housing, whether they are owner-occupied or rented. What kind of housing policy is the Council of State primarily thinking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e528	With regard to the investigation referred to in the letter, I cannot dispute it. So the investigation is done by others of me, but I have no reason to dispute what's in that investigation. But whatever the cause of discards, I think, and it also shows several studies, that there is a great potential for reducing the number of discards, especially in Oslo and Trondheim. I think we actually have a common responsibility, both the municipalities involved, and the state, to prevent that from happening. However, in the situations where discarding is necessary, it must be ensured that there are people who take care of those who are thrown out. Paragraph 1: I think there should be fewer discards. Point 2: There must be a safety net that works. And in some of the examples we've seen, provided that I don't know absolutely all the details, at least I think we've been exposed to a lack of coordination between different agencies. It is essential that the social office, the housing office, the social security office or whoever it is coordinate so as to ensure that those who have to leave an apartment have a different place to live. Then I believe that hosts are not a good solution. I believe that hospits are a terrible poor solution. I believe it is an expensive solution, especially for families with children, but also for most others. That's why I think it's right to go further in the way we've started, and to which the Storting has joined in, in terms of appropriations over the state budget for the current year, in order to build and give dignified housing to these people. I also believe that it is important to go through the policy, for example. in this municipality when you are looking at the sale of municipal rental properties. It is up to the municipalities to assess, but it must at least be that if there are a number of people in a difficult housing situation – and it is in this city and in some other municipalities in our country – we must ensure that they have a place to live. And then I react a little bit to the fact that more municipal homes are sold than they are purchased, because that means that some of these people don't get a real place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e537	The letter sent by the municipal minister to the municipal committee, and in particular what the main post of the municipal minister now held, has nothing to put on the right. We fully agree with the main features of the arrangement outlined by the Council of State. That's why it was with a certain amazement that I read the Daily yesterday, where it was obvious that the Council of State chose to profile something quite different from what she wrote in a letter to the committee, and clearly she chose to go on with misassessments and misdescriptions of housing policy in Oslo. Yesterday, Brustad in Dagbladet said that the municipality requires market rent from the worst-placed in society. In her letter, she said that the people needed rent, and that there was financial housing for the disadvantaged. What the municipality of Oslo does is have a system that corresponds to what the municipal minister has just stood here and said is a correct system, namely that one makes sure to cover its costs and provides housing, state and municipal support, alongside. That is the policy that is actually being pursued in Oslo. Furthermore, the Council of State says, and so did she in the previous line also, to comment directly or indirectly on the issues of expulsion in Oslo. Last week, a government council from the same government spent a lot of time explaining the Norwegian press that, for privacy reasons, she could not comment on the real content of a question of adoption. In all these draft cases, it is also the case that the municipality is prevented from telling what is the real situation, because individual economic situations are then addressed. Doesn't the Council of State see that she might be restrained from getting a cheap profit in the media on individual matters when she also admits here that she doesn't really have an overview of the substance in them? It's getting too simple!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e546	I understand that it's not always nice to be criticized, but we'll all be from time to time, and often it can be that criticism is very constructive. As Minister of Housing, I have an overall responsibility, together with the Stortinget, together with the municipalities in this country and with the housing laws, to ensure that people in this country get a decent place to live. We have, large-scale and government, arranged for the House Bank to have significantly more money available through housing grants, start-up loans, etc. for the current year, but we are totally dependent on the municipalities playing with us to build the houses, along with the housing laws. When I meet many young people in the country's capital who have become dependent on having rich parents or grandparents to get a place to live, uninhabited at the Church's City Mission, at the Salvation Army or elsewhere – the main weight of those between 6,000 and 7,000 registered homeless in Norway belongs to Oslo – I also feel a responsibility as the responsible Minister of Housing to say that I hope that those who run the capital, who have also done a lot of good, can participate in a task to do even more, especially to those groups. It's a real and honest commitment. And then I also hope, when you have a dialogue about it, that it's not used as a shut-up or criticism, because at least that's not what it's meant to be. It's meant that together we need to build more dwellings. And I don't think I've given any misassessments of the situation in Oslo. I think we should note that there is a much greater need to build more rental houses in Oslo. If Oslo had built about the same amount as e.g. Akershus does, then it should have been built about three times as many rental homes in Oslo as it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e555	In my heart, I want to limit myself to securing long-term, reasonable rents for those who have it difficult. There is no doubt that it would allow more people to pay their own rent. But what's the question today, either one can pay a rent himself, or need some support, is actually finding a place to live. And that's in the context that we in the Center Party thought there's reason to ask questions about whether SV's proposal is the best tool. But then it's far from going against it and giving support to all that Sylvia Brustad here presents as the Government's policy. It is she who is responsible for the loans and advances in the House Bank. It is she who is responsible in government for the local economy. And my question to her will be, is she so satisfied with what the government is providing here, that she thinks that when people in this country today don't have a say over their heads, or don't have the ability to pay their own rent, is it actually the municipalities or the individual's fault? Last year, at the end of the year, the takeover arrangements in the House Bank were actually not exhausted. Would you like to see it more closely on your own? Would she like to look at clauses for a longer period, so that one could be involved in several rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e562	It is correct, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa says, that I have the overall responsibility in relation to loans and grants, not least together with the Stortinget, who joined the additional appropriations for the current year to the House Bank and the increase in the housing grant scheme. Then the representative Meltveit Kleppa asks if I am satisfied with the state of things. No, if I were, I would have, for example. didn't say what I said in the newspaper. If I had been, I wouldn't have had the x number of meetings with young people, with the homeless, with municipalities and who it should be. No, I'm not satisfied with the state of things. But I know that the Government for the current year has proposed increased house-banking frameworks, to which the Storting has joined, and I know that there is a lot of money at its disposal. And nothing would please me more than that several municipalities made sure that this money was spent – for the benefit of young and disadvantaged people who today have no place to live. I'm set to go through what must be, turn all the stones, to see if there's more we can do from our side too, and do even more. I am often criticized – and that's okay – by young people and others, because I can't build these homes. To that end, I have to say that sharing in housing policy in Norway is such that we have to ensure that the legislation is as simple as possible, we have to make sure that the money is there – and we do something about that. But I can't build the homes. Nor can the size of the dwellings be built. We are therefore totally dependent on the municipalities and the housing law and that together we do a good job to get this done. There's more that have to do even more. Let me then answer what I did not get in relation to questions from the representative Erna Solberg. There are differences in market rentals and cost-effective rentals. Oslo Municipality is now on market rental in many ways. It is true that the Municipality of Oslo enters with municipal housing support – I have never disputed that, I think it is very good – in addition to the state housing support and in some context social assistance, which is also necessary. Nevertheless, in many ways, the rent that remains will be higher than if you had a cost-effective rent. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e579	There's an obvious misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e586	There's an opportunity to draw yourself a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e590	Despite an allegedly large commitment, the Council of State is not able to make concrete what she wants to do, and when she wants to do it. It's urgent -- we have so much patience in solving the absolutely essential problem of people who don't have a place to live. The Council of State says that she disagrees that market rent should be taken. It is possible that she is, but the law is now such that it is free for municipal house sharks. Market rents are allowed. This is also stated in the comments of the Committee members of the Workers' Party: ‘These members indicate that the municipalities are free to determine the rental rentals for their own rentals in the framework of the rental legislation.’ It gives these openings. What will the Council of State do with that? Nor are there any tools to ensure that municipalities take cost-effective rentals, as the Council of State says, is among the government's instruments. Does the Council intend to put in place any means to ensure that there are at least some mechanisms that prevent municipalities from taking more money from renting? Is there at all any boundaries that will allow the Council of State to intervene against those who are now shoesing those who cannot afford a place to live? The Council of State further states that the government has increased the housing allowance. That's right, they did. There is also a need to increase the grant measure per year. housing. It would get more people to build, and it would be an opportunity through regulations to make rents, because they would be cost-effective at a different level. How can the Council of States explain that it is right, on the one hand, to use many billions of dollars in a grant scheme, if, on the other hand, we cannot say how high the rents are – one can have market rentals if subsidies are granted – and if we cannot ensure that these dwellings remain in municipal ownership and benefit those who need a cheap place to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e606	The representative Karin Andersen continues to create the impression that there is no other than SV in this room who has a real and honest commitment to young people and others who need a place to live. Andersen's own bill is due – and it's not right. When we disagree with the SV's proposal, it is because I believe that the proposal will not give the results that Mr Andersen clearly believes it will provide. I believe that the proposal that SV has put on the table today – for which there will not be a majority, but for which the intentions behind it are very good – could actually lead to fewer housing for young and disadvantaged people, and that there would be poorer maintenance of the homes that you have. That means that it will be a little targeted scheme. Who will be interested in renting out if it is such that one is allowed to take only a very low rent? Who would be interested in maintaining those dwellings? And we have to wish for those people that this is about, that they too should live in decent housing. I think, like the majority in this room, that laying on a cost-effective rent, combined with housing support from the state and municipality of the largest cities, possibly with social assistance, as well as building much more rental homes for those who need it, is a much more correct solution. Not all municipalities in the country take market rent. Very many of them take cost-effective rentals, and I believe that is correct. But I disagree with taking market rentals from those who have the worst. Sense of a subtractor from housing support and social support, the rent for some of the people we're talking about here will be too high anyway. I believe we need to build more and do what we can to make the municipalities choose cost-effective rentals and not market rentals. I don't understand why Andersen's representative gets so annoyed when I allow myself to say what I think about the policy of the Municipality of Oslo in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e617	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e622	I am sorry, but I doubt the good intentions of those who oppose our proposal. The majority consider the proposal to be inappropriate, but do not make appropriate proposals to try to do what we propose. It was said by the representative Gaundal that the Workers' Party wants to pursue the policy that is at present. But today's policy must be able to say with one's heart and cold eyes that it has not been successful. In my opinion, it has been a long time since the Workers' Party decided to pursue a social housing policy. I think we can see the effects of around society today. It's just looking at reality. When there are at least 2,800 homeless people in Oslo, and there are at least 9,000 people without a permanent residence, we cannot say that the policy that is today can continue. The market is not working. It's very easy to tell why, but first I want to say something about what the market is. The market is a very effective mechanism to distribute a limited benefit between people who are willing to pay. Then it's like the people who have the most get housing. For the market to function, it is one prerequisite. It's that there's a lot of small players, and no one has market power. But a small, poor family that depends on a place to live doesn't have market power. There are some others who have market power in such a situation. There is reason to ask the questions: during the period of the Council of State, how many fewer have been left without a place to live? How much have the prices flattened out or dropped to the average dwelling? How much has the average rental price of dwellings in this country fallen? There is only one effort on the supply side of the housing market that can do something about the price level, and only a political effort can bring the price down. It's not politics to say, as the Brustad State Council does, that one is to base the cost principle, when one doesn't do anything to make it really like that. It is not a policy to do anything, and it is also a non-policy to be for more housing and increased housing, but at the same time not to do anything to bring about the concrete policy measures to that end.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e633	I get to start with the obvious misunderstanding. So it's not allowed for anyone to rent the market in this country. And I think that at best is a misunderstanding, probably a deliberate calculation, that every time you talk about Oslo, you say you take market rent. So there's a bunch of people that you can take according to today's regulations, and that's what you add up to in Oslo. So this applies to the house rental law as such. I think it is worrying that a government council is constantly using other concepts that it has itself been against being regulated by law. So to the question of what to charge for the dwelling, it's not so-called cost-effective. The Council of State itself has described the situation in a letter, for example: in Oslo, that there are very many who have contracts that cannot be terminated, and that do not really need to be subsidized. Therefore, it is better to add to a policy based on the rental of crowds, among other things. because much of this housing stock has suffered from very poor maintenance and the means of maintenance has been drastically increased under the current City Council in relation to the former Gerhardsen City Council, while at the same time targeted resources are being used for the part of those living in the municipal housing that has social problems and difficulties in paying the bill, namely the municipal housing support. It is more used in housing support in Oslo, for this precisely targeted group, than what is taken from the housing company as such. So that means that exactly the means that the government itself has said are important. This is because in many of the municipal homes there are more than just social clients. Municipal dwellings are located in many municipalities, among others. recruitment homes to employ people in the public sector, people who have wages and who can pay rent but who need housing in order to take up the job. There is no reason for the type of housing to be subsidised. I think that the Council of State in its letter and in its main post had a quite correct general characteristic. But as soon as the Council of State starts talking about Oslo, you start to misinform, you start to sign, and you continue the obvious campaign that the Labour Party government has put on the agenda, that everything is wrong in Oslo, which the Minister of Children and Family also did, when she strongly criticized the poor kindergarten coverage, despite the fact that the children's gardening in Oslo is much larger than, for example, in Bergen, led by a labour party bureau. I think the Brustad State Council should go through all its claims, including: in the newspaper yesterday, with the Municipality of Oslo, get the correct figures on the table and stop driving this black paint compared to actually following the policy that the Government itself expresses in its letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e653	The last thing that the representative Erna Solberg said, I actually agree with. I have some problems realizing that the government does not see that the housing policy course they have now taken is exactly the same as Right, and that Ann Marit Soubønes in Oslo calls a clientization. So the Council of State says that SV's proposals will lead to fewer cheap dwellings. It is from a point of view that no one should be responsible for providing cheap housing. Could it not be the government's opinion that no one should be responsible for it? Do we not agree that the municipalities have a responsibility to offer housing to those who are unable to obtain housing in a market? That's the whole point, and that's the housing we're talking about. We're talking about the homes that are assigned on social criteria. We're not talking about any other homes that people rent in the market, whether it's expensive or cheap, or where they rent them. It says ‘social rental homes’, and it is a term that refers to the dwellings that some people have received because they have social problems. So I need to ask the Council of State to decide whether she believes that the municipalities have such a responsibility. And if they have it, it can't be a problem at all – if you want to – to say that there should be regulated rentals in these dwellings. Then it's a state responsibility to make sure the municipalities can afford it. Some people have to make sure that people with poor advice can afford to live. The Council of State may feel that it should be tormented by low municipal budgets between schools that are not linked and social aid rates that are too low, but in fact SV believes that there is a responsibility for accumulation and government, both with increased subsidies for construction and with municipal budgets that make it possible to offer both social assistance rates for which it is possible to live, and to make enough rents for those who need it. So to the debate about whether everyone who lives in these apartments now is social, for example. in Oslo, needs low rent. No, there are probably examples of the opposite. But part of these people are minimum pensioners, very many of them are insured, and very many of them are now doing well because they live in homes that have low rents, without necessarily being tested up and down and down and through and have had to go through a lot of social grinders. But when the rent increases, they don't do anything anymore. And what is the benefit of even more problems in the housing market? What's the benefit of that? I have had a telephone call from several minimum pensioners who live in municipal rental homes in Oslo where the rent is now set up, and who do not know their poor advice. It's possible that the majority here think it's a good policy that these people have to fly from office to office and ask for money. SV thinks it's bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e664	A few comments. To what Solberg's representative said here, she's trying to make a big number of that there's a lot of difference between the principle of rent and market rent. It's just in theory. It is stated in the letter from Brustad State Council that the rent of the gang is the rent that is paid on average for similar rooms on similar terms. It's clear that when people's rents are fixed, and you compare with other apartments in a market where there's a market price, what people are willing to pay, it's clear that people's rents and market rentals aren't exactly miles apart. That's the one. Then to the second. The public is a major player and can thus affect the rental of the crowd. For me, in the debate here there has been a certain kind of throttleing by percentages that I am a little surprised at, because in the letter from the municipal minister it is said that 76 pst. of the Norwegian people live in owner-occupied dwellings, 20 pst. lives in private rental homes and 4 pst. live in publicly owned rental dwellings. 4 pst. set up against 20 pst. – after my quick head count, that means about 17 pst. of the rental market in this country it is the government that owns it. And when the government owns 17 pst. Thus, the rental market has market power. Then you have the opportunity to go ahead. And especially if you want to increase the proportion of public housing, you can go ahead and say that we actually don't want to be involved in pushing the prices of homes up here in the country. We're actually going to make sure to push prices downwards. And that, for example. setting a maximum ceiling on what can be rented on the social rental dwellings will also have an impact on what is set as market rentals, for it will govern the overall pricing of the market. So that's another good reason to do exactly what we're saying. I am also much less concerned that some of the 3,000 mentioned in the letter from the municipal minister would benefit from the fact that the housing had unquenchable contracts. It is clear that there will always be someone who will benefit from some of the public schemes that exist. Just look at the study funding, that's exactly the same thing where: rich people have just as much access to study funding as other people. But I think it's more important to make sure that those who don't make it today can get a system so that they can make it, than death and life, to be looking for those who are now getting along because of a public offer. Cost-effectiveness: the determination of non-cost-based rentals does not contribute to an efficient use of resources. So it depends on what the alternative cost is. If that's how you can make sure you don't throw out any people to place them at the hospital instead, it would be cost-effective. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e677	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e680	It is good that this proposal has led to a debate today on what is going to happen to ensure that more people in this country have a place of residence. In this context, I have some questions for the Council of State. Governments published a document last June. One of the points there – and one important point – was to participate in several properties and available plots. The question is, what has the government done in the last year in relation to the state's land mass to obtain property and available land? Secondly, I am happy that the Council of State now says that it will look at the measurement of the excess. A higher priority will be to provide better funding. I would also like to stress the need to look at the clause in relation to it, so that the takeover can remain in a dwelling even at any hall. Third, the municipal economy: doesn't the Council of State register the same thing as us, that there are actually more municipalities that would be involved in this field, that would build more rental properties if they had had greater potential than today to prioritize it? So my last question: last year we were at the end of the year in the situation that there were possibilities, there were funds that were not used within the House Bank's back-up arrangements. How is the situation now in ours? What does the State Council do to keep up-to-date and possibly to stimulate more municipalities to get on the road? Then I would like to end by stressing that, of course, the government has a solar-ready co-responsibility to secure the most difficult-minded. This applies to both bumpers and social aid rates, and it applies to the tools that are needed to secure more than one housing. And today's debate has clarified that one here needs to step up efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e695	When SV's representative Holmås and, to the extent that the representative Karin Andersen here also says that the Workers' Party and some other parties are not doing anything, it falls on their own unfairness. The house-banking framework for the current year has increased by NOK 2 billion, the housing grant has increased by SEK 152 million. kr, it is ensured that 50 pst. several for the current year can get a start-up loan, we have made sure that we have eased the need tests, we have removed the 10 pst. rule so that one can be fully financed by the municipalities, there have been changes in legislation – there are going to be more – it has been suggested that 1000 student homes can be built in the current year, we have made sure to change the regulations so that purchasing loans can also be used for housing properties – not least in a city like Oslo – and we have recently had the official start-up shot of the ‘Project homeless’ in the five largest cities to ensure the most disadvantaged – to mention something. Then it doesn't matter to stand here and say that nothing is done on this front. But I'm impatient, and I want to do even more. And I sincerely hope that the debate we have had here today will also result in what I believe is at least the majority's agreement, namely that we should have more housing built for those who need it the most. Then to the representative, Solberg. The Labour Party government has no campaign against the Municipality of Oslo, and we are not trying to operate with black paint in relation to the Municipality of Oslo. But I meet – not least in this city – many young people, people who have no place to live at all, at least not permanently, who understandably are impatient and despaired at the situation they are in. That's why I want to have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo about how we can jointly make sure to do something faster about this group. So at the issue of market prices, rents and cost-effective rentals are multiplied. It may quickly be a very technical debate, but it is true that there is not always so much difference between market prices and rents, although it will vary. But my point is that when it comes to the question of renting people, I think we need to be able to put slightly different expectations into local government policy than what you can do to private people. That's one thing. Another thing is that what we're essentially adding up to is cost-effective rents, and they're in a lot of ways lower than what we're talking about here, either a guy calls market rent or a bunch of rents. Therefore, I believe that the municipalities – also the municipality of Oslo – have a responsibility not to take more money into rent than is necessary, and that we ensure that it is complemented both with housing support from the state and the municipalities and possibly with social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e707	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e721	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be restricted to 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to one of the independent representatives. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e728	With the present position, we have finally come to an end with a matter that, in my opinion, is not among the most honorable in our post-war history. It's taken 57 years to come up with a system of compensation for the Nordics who, without personal guilt, were drawn into a global conflict, where they had to endure horrors and suffering far beyond what human capacity can take inwards. It has taken two committee positions to move one – I must say – reluctantly the Ministry of Justice to present a proposal that meets to some extent the Storting's demand to provide compensation and to give a reprisal to the prisoners. Even during this last reading, it had to have a unanimous judiciary to come up with a system that reasonably takes care of the necessary considerations in order to function fairly and thus in accordance with its purpose. At the conclusion of the peace process with Japan in 1946, Norway and the Allies renounced the right to seek compensation with Japan. Norway thus waived the international legal basis for raising cases on behalf of former Norwegian prisoners of war in Japan. In my opinion, this gives Norway a particular responsibility – not least an ethical responsibility – to take action in return for them. The prisoners themselves were completely helpless and without legal protection in relation to the agreement of state powers between and above their heads. There is hardly any amount that can make up for the suffering of the prisoners. Different countries have identified different schemes. We've cut through and given equal compensation to everyone. We therefore recognise that an individual assessment could involve the germ of strife and new injustice. The principle of one for all, all for one, is particularly applicable in a case such as this. I would like to stress that $100,000 is a significant amount. Thus, it is also the symbolic force of the uprising that Norway finally and in a worthy way recognizes the efforts of the prisoners in extremely difficult conditions in a war in which they themselves were innocent. The size takes in the suffering of the prisoners and the suffering that the prisoners and their survivors have had to undergo in retrospect – those who were so lucky that they had an afterlife. Probably like several of the committee's members, I have received reactions from some of the prisoners and their relatives about some formulations in the proposition. I agree that the proposition contains the wording we could have been besides. I would nevertheless encourage that we now put such thoughts behind us. Now the Stortinget has spoken, and the Stortinget has with great humility and great clarity given an outstretched hand to the former prisoners of Japanese prison or detention during World War II. I think it is a credit to the Stortinget that we have got a unanimous position, that we have avoided a dispute over the size of the compensation, and that we have found that the compensation is given to the surviving prisoners and to the surviving spouses and children under normal inheritance law. Finally, I want to give a small honor to the representative Vidar Kleppe. It is his initiative that has led us to arrive at this good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e751	The Labour Party is very pleased that we can end this parliamentary term by showing respect and giving honors to all those who were interned in Japan or Japanese occupied territories during the Second World War. It has been too long before these have been allowed to make their way from Norwegian authorities. Hence, I am pleased that today we can gather about an amount for both the living and the living oaks or their right heirs. There's every reason to notice that Norway is in a company with several countries that are now paying compensation to their prisoners. Many of these have chosen to make individual payments. This will require a major bureaucracy and will also be able to create difficulties for everyone when it comes to obtaining evidence. We have to remind each other that there was an exceptional state in most places at that time. I also don't think most people were thinking about obtaining documentation, for example. How long they were in prison. The most important thing there and then was that they were alive and were free. Therefore, it is good that we have collected as much as NOK 100000 in each individual case, although I very well know that such an amount can in the near future replace the sufferings and stresses these human beings received under captivity and not least in retrospect. With a number of approx. 900 people who were deprived of their freedom are many close relatives who have got this tragedy ventured into their later lives. So it's important that we don't make any major differences when it comes to the payment, but we give a fixed amount that is tax-free, and that it should not be possible to subtract from any other compensation or social security scheme that may be received. Even the opposite; should there be someone who has not been aware that they can seek a war pension, it is still quite possible. As I said, the working party feels that we have finally been given thanks again for the effort and the recognition that each of us has been subjected to. I am well aware that money cannot weigh up for the treatment these received under very difficult conditions. This has been important for us in the Workers' Party to be drawn in the context of the management of this deposit proposition. So I'm glad that we can now end this chapter with this replacement, so that we don't go into a new accumulation period until we get these prisoners our honor. With the outcome here today, I hope that everyone feels that the Norwegian state has fully recognised the efforts made under the difficult conditions that were in Japanese captivity during the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e762	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that there is a cross-political consensus in the Judicial Committee on the proposals to be adopted here in the European Parliament today. The surviving Japanese prisoners and the surviving spouses or children of the deceased prisoners have waited far too long for the day to come when the Stortinge came in reverence and with expressed respect and thanks to the translated and forgotten prisoners. It is true, as the rapporteur has pointed out, that the amount of the compensation is not in any way intended to provide adequate compensation for the pain, the victim and the burden of the imprisonment. Nor is the amount intended as a patch on the wound of an individual nature. But it's a standardised ex-gratia payment, where Norway expresses compassion for those who were imprisoned, and appreciates the efforts they made under extremely difficult conditions in a war they themselves had no guilt or involvement in. And once we've expanded the group of those who are going to receive the payment, to the surviving spouses or children of the deceased Japanese prisoners, it's obviously because the Storting will also honor the memory of the deceased prisoners, while we're aware of the great suffering many of the prisoners and their survivors have suffered in retrospect. The Christian People's Party believes that there is reason to give honor to the representatives Vidar Kleppe, Jørn L. Stang, Terje Knudsen and Harald T. Nesvik for their Document No. Eight proposals to replace Norwegian nationals who were imprisoned in Japan during World War II. But there are also the words of honor. For the Christian People's Party is not only disappointed, but also angry at the tone of St.prp. No 67 for 2000-2001. The proposition is permeated by expressions and comparisons, and in part claims that any normally thinking and feeling involved must experience hurting and demeaning. But before I go into the documentation, I would like to stress the Stortinges decision in relation to Innst. S. No 144 for 1999-2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider alternative proposals for compensation schemes as compensation for the suffering suffered by Norwegian citizens due to residence in Japanese captivity during World War II.’.» This Decision calls for an assessment of alternative proposals for compensation schemes, not for an assessment of whether they should be compensated at all. In that regard, the Stortinget has already taken a decision with its decision. Therefore, it is unheard of that there is so much space to consider whether these prisoners should be replaced at all. And as if that's not enough, you obviously end up with a conclusion that is reluctantly made 'despite the strong principleal counter-arguments' to quote the end of the proposition. I will substantiate my and Christian People's Party's disappointment and resentment over the Government and the State Council Harlem with a few quotations. Towards the end of the section. 3.2 says: ‘the Norwegian State appears to have a relatively weak link to this case.’ And you point out. 3.5 it says: ‘In contrast to Norway, these countries issued declarations of war above Japan shortly after the attack by Japan’, etc. Yes, is this not precisely the problem of the Norwegian State and close links to the matter? It is in the name of propriety not to transfer responsibility to the prisoners! That's what the government is doing with its statements here, and that intentionally or unintentionally is confirmed at the beginning of the conclusion, point. 3.6: ‘A fundamental idea’ — in civil compensation law — ‘is that responsibility for concrete losses is placed on the person closest to being responsible for the risk that caused the damage. Sometimes this will be the victim himself." Furthermore, the government says that justice considerations contradict the fact that a person makes special arrangements, such as: compensation for the Japanese prisoners. But according to the Government, it's not just justice considerations; it's also that you want to create a precedent for further claims from new groups, argues against providing compensation. And then what's going to sweep aside the last remainder of understanding of the rightfulness of replacing the Japanese prisoners is: ‘Should the State continue to provide compensation to different groups of past events, the State would undermine its ability to solve today’s and tomorrow’s tasks.’ And on the other hand, ‘From a welfare perspective, state cash payments should preferably go to those who, according to their situation today, have the greatest need for them.’ This is to cry off! How, in the name of propriety, is it to say something like that in the context of all the quotations, namely, to settle for state failure sins? The Christian People's Party would wish the ministry had spent time bringing about a complaint from the Japanese government, instead of adding stones to the burden. I hope that the Council of State will take advantage of the opportunity to be on the watch and say sorry for the tone and content of St. prp. No 67 got.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e806	Today is a happy day for those who were imprisoned in Japan during World War II. It is not a happy day for the sum that is being given, and it is not a joyous day for what these prisoners were exposed to, but it is a joyous day for the Norwegian state to finally take responsibility. That's what this matter is really about. By providing this compensation today, we assume the responsibility that we should actually have given compensation at a long earlier time. I ask myself the question – especially after hearing the Labour Party representative: Why has it taken so long? Everyone is happy that this case now has the outcome, but why has it taken so long? Why did it have to be a document No. 8 proposals from representatives Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and myself until we got this case on the table? If all the representatives and all the parties believe that this was time, and that we are now happy with the outcome, it should have been possible to sort this out before. In fact, a number of people have gone away while waiting for the state to take this responsibility, and the survivors are left. These people never experienced a solution to this matter, and they got the upswing that they now get, because it's been so many years before you've recognized the actual situation. However, I would like to pay tribute to the Justice Committee for the way it has dealt with this matter – in a tidy manner, the case has had a good result, and not least there is a unanimous committee behind the vote. I also expect a unanimous increase to join this. It was also important to have it in place that the surviving spouses and the deceased's children are entitled to this compensation. If not, there would be a certain bismach by waiting so many years that the number of people has been greatly reduced before getting on the job with compensation. Fortunately, you have not gone into that trap this time, and I am glad that we have received the result that is available. But I leave it hanging in the air: Why have so many years gone by?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e819	There are many things that can amaze a politician in the political discussion and debate. Something that has amazed me greatly was when the Minister of Justice at Akershu's fortress to these honoraries presented the proposal that the Government had come up with, after it imposed that came from Stortinget, and which she was to investigate. There we saw that the honorary words used by the Workers' Party over a long, long time in the efforts of these honorary women and gentlemen for the efforts they made were not rooted in sincerity and a feeling that these were to be dealt with separately – 57 years later. No, it was heads and ears. There is great polemics in St. pp. No 67 whether they had a claim for compensation at all, and a big discussion about widows and survivors would get it. That's what the Workers' Party went to, hiding that it was the assignment they had received from Stortinget. I have read through the discussion from Stortinget, and it was very clear. But the Labour Party government was supposed to, in this area, as in many other areas, save in and be humiliated. And then we see representative Nistad of the Workers' Party standing on the pulpit of the Storting today and boasting of what the Workers' Party has done, and what they've been thinking up, in terms of the war settlement for these people. It's exactly the same thing that happened to the war ropes, and it's exactly the same thing that has happened to others who have been wronged after they have made an effort for the country. That's in the party numbers it's going to happen pretty much. But fortunately, we have a big deal that is complex in such a way that the Workers' Party has been pressured from opportunity to opportunity to make a decision that allows us to at least say that we have done the job we were supposed to do and that should have been done too far. I evaluated for a long time whether I should promote an alternative proposal that went on the amount of compensation. But I agree with the case-rapporteur, Mr. Bjørn Hernæs, that the principle of giving up, even though crowns and ears cannot compensate for all the suffering these people and their families have suffered, is such an important and good signal to send out, including to other allies who dismissed their responsibility, that I fell away from it, but it was with a heavy heart. And then I will not later see that we are having discussions with the tax and social security system that once you have received these amounts, you will have to pay taxes on it. I think the Minister of Justice now has to confirm that this should go unabated and directly, without being deflected into a system that is concerned with skinning people as much as possible. In the same area, I would recommend that the Minister of Justice take this discussion and the debate that is taking place on the few people we have left of those who have made an effort during the last war: let the curatorial service of these honorary women and gentlemen be continued. Those who have made an effort during the war don't get any more over the years, they actually get fewer. It's embarrassing to hear discussions and debates where people are left with the impression that the government and the majority of people are going over and over in these cases, whether it's about people who have been in Japanese captivity, who have been war ropes or others who have made an effort in different areas for Norway, whether it's in war or peace, don't take them seriously, and that they still have to fight to get their rights. That is why my recommendation on the decision that I am now convinced is unanimous, that we will later not get any trouble with the amount being wasted on both taxation and other things. And if that's the case, then the doubt has to come – not the defendant, as I almost had said – to the good of those involved in this, so that we don't use polemics, time and forces on this. There is still a lot of injustice that has not been resolved, and there are still people in Norway today who have not even received the war pension they are entitled to, because we have a government that is so stiff-legged and paragraph-breaking that they are going to have almost any evidence of what happened. And when people who have been on a fleet for 19 days and struggled for their lives, have not yet received a war pension, it says a little bit about the attitudes that unfortunately have not been of the political leadership, so at least of those who have ruled this by the department. That's why I hope that the Council of State now takes this into account, and that once and for all, we take it into account and make it up for us, even if it should come up with more things.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e832	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e835	Replacement for Japanese prisoners is a symbolic patch on the psychological wound that many Northmen received during World War II. The so-called standard compensation is in line with that in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Canada, which have also had a settlement with their citizens against those in Japanese captivity. Japan has never paid any damages to Norway, as Germany has done. In the 1951 peace agreement between Norway and Japan, Norway, like the other allies, waived the right to bring an action against Japan. As a curiosity, I would like to mention that Norway was considered a non-existent country by the Japanese side, with the result that no nation was officially allowed to care for Norwegian interests in Japan. That's what C.J. meant back then. Hambro, who also believed that Japan perceived us as part of Great Germany. Together with a number of countries, Norway takes a last possible round of settlements of old sins and provides a symbolic sum, in isolation, fair, as a substitute for the victims. It was necessary to pass the year 2000 before this was put in place, which may be due to the fact that Norway's formal war relations with Japan have paid little attention, not least because the Stortinget has for 50 years avoided all its treatment from the public, in fact until 1995. It is gratifying that a total accumulation takes collective responsibility for compensation on the initiative of the representative Vidar Kleppe. In particular, it is also important that an overall justice system admits that surviving spouses and surviving children of deceased former prisoners shall be entitled to enter into the claims of the deceased in accordance with normal succession rules. This is an essential point. It is particularly important when we all know that there is some form of arrogance in the proposition and in the ministry and, in part, a disclaimer of responsibility in the matter of perfect moral compensation. If it only applies to the survivors, it will only amount to about 350 people out of a total of 900 people. One must be aware that such obvious discrimination between the German prisoners and the Japanese prisoners cannot take place. The ex-gratia payment of NOK 100000 has to be seen as a symbolic sum and is in line with the settlement to the German prisoners of NOK 12 000, measured in 1960 dollars. According to the Statistical Central Bureau, this amounts to per cent. in the year 2000 a little over 109,000 kroner. Not all prisoners of war are aware of the fact that there is still access to apply for a full war pension, which today amounts to nearly NOK 218 000 per year. years. About 50 Japanese prisoners are receiving a war pension today Finally, I would like to stress that, with this initiative, Norway finally shows that it is aware of the suffering many of the prisoners and their survivors have suffered in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e850	I am pleased that everyone – a unanimous big deal, a unanimous committee – now agrees that this replacement should be given to those who were imprisoned in Japan. It's time for this group to get this symbolic sum as a retribution for what's happened. But precisely because we agree, I think it's a pity that this day, which is so important to so many people, and this debate is baffled by a use of words by some who testify that you're trying to run a political rhetoric that doesn't belong in any way in this case. It has been used as being ‘shut’ and ‘harm’ over the proposition and that it is a discharge that lies there. That proposition is the whole picture. There is a factual presentation of what other financial compensations have been given to people who have been imprisoned and what other financial compensations are possible for them. It's a description of the usual right to compensation that this magnification has actually adopted before, and it's a brief reference to other groups that might be in the same situation as the ones we're providing compensation to now. I would also like to remind you of what is not in the proposition, namely that the Storting earlier, through its own system of compensation, the cheapness allowance, has said no to compensate for people who have suffered great suffering, who have suffered loss, both in body and in soul and materially, as a result of the war. These are Norwegian citizens who have been imprisoned in Norway during the war, they are those who have lost school during the war, and they are those who have experienced gross bullying as a result of the war. And then the Stortinget said in the past that suffering because of the war should not be compensated, because, unfortunately, war hits many hard. Of course, it can be tempting, when you know the conclusion, just to focus on the arguments for that conclusion and not to put the matter into a whole or give the whole picture. But if the government had done that, I believe it would have neglected. Then it had only done half the job, it had been a bad job. Just one-sided focus on the for-arguments we know from political rhetoric, but it should be with respect not to report at home in a public document, as a proposition is. There are a lot of tragic fates among those who put in Japanese captivity. We hear stories that are horrifying, and then it's easy to let feelings take over, but at the same time we have to be able to put it into a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e861	I'm glad the Stortinge decides today to award compensation to the Northmen who were in Japanese captivity during the war. This is a long-awaited uplift. I have been told, even today, that someone has perceived some wording in the proposition as hurtful. In that case, I'm sorry, of course I didn't mean to. But I still believe that it is right for the Government to discuss the scheme in a broader and more principled context by introducing specific compensation schemes. However, I would like to stress that the conclusion was – which should now be well known – that compensation should be given to those who were in Japanese captivity. And when it came to the conclusion, it was due, for example, to: the fact that the allies in the agreement concluded with Japan effectively deprived those in Japanese captivity of the possibility of compensation from the Japanese State. I wasn't going to say what I'm going to say now. But when the representative Marthinsen was so indignant, I would still like to say that the Bondevik administration actually spent two and a half years without doing anything about this. So the pain you're now presenting, I think maybe is exaggerating something. I am pleased that there is agreement on the proposal that a standard compensation should be paid. Although it can be argued well that the suffering of the individual has been very different, the most important thing now is to make a payment quickly so that they can enjoy the payment, and that we get the expression of the respect it is supposed to be. I am therefore also pleased that there is a consensus that there should be no major claim to documentation, that the compensation should not be taxed – and I can then confirm the representative Kleppe’s wish to clarify it – and that any compensation received previously, including social security, pension or compensation, should not be deducted. I would also like to confirm that the Ministry in the publication of the scheme would explicitly draw attention to the fact that the persons concerned still have the opportunity to apply for a war pension, and, of course, when examining the applications, the Ministry will also take into account the priorities set out by the Committee in the vote, so that applications from those who themselves are imprisoned are dealt with and granted first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e877	This is a unanimous vote by the Justice Committee. The rapporteur has presented the matter in an excellent way, and there should not really be a need to say so much from us. I just wanted to take the floor to give commendation to the initiators who have solved this matter, the independent depositors Vidar Kleppe, Jørn L. Stang and Terje Knudsen and the representative of the Progress Party Harald T. Nesvik. Because it is undoubtedly correct, as the representative Astrid Marie Nistad said, that the Workers' Party has worked on this matter for a long time – in approx. 50 years – but it had not been solved without the initiative of these big business representatives. From this point of view, it is gratifying that it is possible to promote private proposals from representatives of the Stortinget and to obtain an impact and a practical result. So as such, I also see this as a never so small victory for the independence of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e884	The representative, Ane Sofie Tmärås, says that this day has been shattered by the use of words in the debate. I think this case has been shattered by the proposition that the government sent to Stortinget. And it has been necessary for the Justice Department of the Great Britain to correct what the Government has not been able to say in its proposition. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the Council of State met my wish and said it was sorry that the proposition has created negative feelings and reactions in those to which it applies. Those were important words and necessary words. The representative also said that this proposition was a factual presentation. Then I don't understand why the Workers' Party has turned its back on this proposition and expanded the basis across what is in this proposition. This shows that you have not thought and acted carefully enough. The council also said to the undersigned that the Bondevik administration had been sitting for two and a half years without doing anything about it. Yes, there is no reason to be proud of it, nor have I ever claimed any pride in that regard. But I have expressed honor to those who took an initiative, and I also think that the Workers' Party could have done so in this case, and shown that it was necessary for someone to react. The fact that they were these representatives serves them honorably. And that there has now been a solution to the matter, serving the Justice Committee honours and honours, for the Justice Committee has in its position addressed the core issue of what the Government's proposal did not at all manage to capture in its conclusion. I therefore conclude by stating that I am happy that we can finally set a line for a matter that should have been resolved a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e895	It was the representative, Mr. Tömerås, who made me take the floor again. Of course I've read the setting, and the proposition that came, St.prp. No 67 for 2000-2001, did not at all allow for what the Labour Party has supported in the Judicial Committee. It's a fact. Compensation paid, e.g. from Germany to Norway, was divided by law and transferred to the spouse of the applicant, children, parents, according to the distribution rules of the inheritance law. The working party had not taken it into account at all in the staging proposition that was underlying here, and they are driving polemics on whether or not they were going to get compensation at all. That's what the Justice Committee has cleaned up. It's a fact. And that the Workers' Party is trying to wash their hands and praise themselves for having stood on and worked on this matter and got a solution to it, that's okay enough, they can take that honor and praise for me. What is important is that these people have finally received a few dollars and a few dollars in upliftment, and not least that we here at Stortinget have appreciated the efforts they made for Norway when they were in Japanese captivity – that's the most important thing here. I therefore think it is good, although the amount of the compensation is too small in my opinion. So we can say that heads and ears cannot replace the suffering they have suffered. I fully agree with that, but it helps to get a few extra kroner. For many of these have had it difficult financially over the years, many have not made the ends meet, many have not had a father. That is why I think we should all end by reminding ourselves of what the Minister of Justice has confirmed, that this is going to be tax-free, that it will be a good way to pay this out, that there will be no bureaucracy, and if there are any doubts, you should also sort out there, so that those who can come under this scheme will receive the uplift that we all, after all, with voting today, will give these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e904	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e918	In Document No: 8:63 for 2000-2001, a proposal from the Grandfather Siv Jensen for the addition of a regulation to the Transport Act relating to the organisation of taxi operations, is proposed as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend or add to the regulation on the occasional carriage of passengers by road of motor vehicles of 10 June 1977 no. Point 8 56, making it explicitly clear that it is permissible for taxi owners to use self-employed drivers in their activities.» The Committee would point out that the Ministry has such an assessment: ‘If contractual arrangements were to be put in place in the taxi industry, the Ministry considers that it represents such a radical breach of the law in force that the law on transport must be amended.’ The Ministry also says: ‘It is possible that the taxi industry will become more attractive as a job for someone if contracting arrangements are opened up. However, these are assessments that could be made for employees in most industries. In the light of the Ministry's assessment, the question of whether workers should be able to register as self-employed persons in the future should therefore be assessed on a general basis and not in isolation as a means of transport policy.» The Committee's recommendation is that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e940	I will be allowed to present the proposal that has been included in the setting on page 2, where the Progress Party wants to open up the possibility for a taxi driver to be registered as a self-employed person. We want the individual driver to be responsible for the professional competence and safety of himself. It must be clear that the taxi operations are subject to wide fluctuations both from day to day and at different times of the day. We believe that the Working Environment Act, permit schemes, etc. is poorly adapted as it is today. With self-employed people who become connected to the centres, the responsibility on the contrary will be well placed and transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e947	Thore Aksel Nistad has drawn up the proposal to which he referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e957	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e977	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review the working time rules of the Working Environment Act in order to make them more flexible and to present to the Stortinge a case of changes in the overtime regulation of the Working Environment Act by the end of the 2001-2002 review session.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e1004	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure low and regulated rentals in social dwellings.’ There will be a vote between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e1094	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend or add to the regulation on the occasional carriage of passengers by road of motor vehicles of 10 June 1977 no. Point 8 56, making it explicitly clear that it is permissible for taxi owners to use self-employed drivers in their activities.» An alternative will be sought between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-29.ana.ud36e1122	There is no record available.
