ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e51	Ot. pp. No 94 for 2000–2001 contains a number of changes in tax legislation. Some of the proposed changes are of a purely technical nature, other clarifications of current practice, while others remain of a somewhat more principleal nature. In addition, I would therefore just like to comment on some of the proposed changes. In the case of plant taxes, the Ministry’s view is explained as to how the tax rule in force is to be understood in the event of realization. This has been necessary because some actors have considered that the organisation of ownership of power activities via holding/ownership companies for power companies/operative companies would result in the local authorities’ realisation of shares/units in the ownership company not being subject to the tax liability under the tax law § 2–5. On this basis, the Ministry clarified its view of the issue in an opinion to the Tax Directorate of 6 April 2001. The proposal sets out the case-law on which the Ministry has based and the Financial Committee has joined the Ministry's assessments and legislative proposals. However, during the Committee's examination of this issue, a different issue related to transitional rules was raised in the context of the 1997 electricity tax reform. These rules allowed municipal and county owned power companies and municipal shares in such companies to reflect the tax input values. In retrospect, however, there is doubt that the same transitional provisions also apply to shares in electricity companies which are or were owned by another municipal power company. The Committee takes the view that the same transitional rule must apply irrespective of the organisation of municipal ownership companies. After the entry into force of the Property Tax Act § 8 for installations for the production of electricity, the Equation Authorities shall determine the tax base for power plants. In this respect, questions have been raised about the jurisdiction of the municipalities and how to understand the time limit for bringing proceedings on any decision on the basis of which the tax is based. Since there may be doubts as to its interpretation under the law in force, a clarification is included in the law stating that the time limit for the action shall run from the time when the competent Equation Authority has taken a decision on the request for a change in the tax base. Before the tax reform in 1992, shares outside the industry owned for at least three years could be realised without triggering tax obligations. In the context of the tax reform, a general tax liability for the gain and deductibility of losses on the realisation of shares was introduced. At the same time, the entry value of shares that could have previously been sold tax-free was allowed to be represented. However, it was stressed that tax payers should not be able to deduct notional losses through adaptation. Therefore, a deduction limit was introduced for losses in the realisation of unlisted companies where the entry value was regulated. It was decided that this deduction limit should apply until 1 January 2002. The background to this time limit was the assumption by the Ministry that any adjustments would decrease over time and that a 10-year period would be sufficient. In retrospect, however, it has been shown that many taxpayers were valued at very high values, so that even after 2002, these taxpayers would be able to obtain significant deductions from the realisation of shares, i.e. without real loss, i.e. that one could receive tax relief for clearly fictitious losses. It was not the intention, and therefore the Ministry proposes that the loss limits be made without a time limit. A majority of the Committee – all except the Right and the Advance Party – agrees to this. The entire Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, agrees with the Ministry's assessment that students should be able to choose whether they will be registered as residents at the place of study or their original residence. On this basis, the Ministry will ask the Tax Directorate to amend the regulations on population registration in line with this. This will include, inter alia: be of great importance to the participation of students in the political work of the municipality in which they study and where they spend most of their time through years of study. In examining the value added tax reform, the majority of the financial committee asked for a more detailed assessment of the scope of the tax obligation on some points. In this context, the Ministry is now promoting proposals to exempt some other services from the general VAT obligation. In this respect, the Ministry proposes that student and student canteens be exempted from the general VAT obligation. Similarly, a general derogation is proposed for sport activities and guidance services. A majority of the members of the Committee have joined these proposals. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e77	There are three areas of Innst. O. No 130 I want to talk to you about something special. The first liabilities of Section 2.4 on the reduction of accumulated RISK amounts on the sale of axles to the company that has printed the axans. I would like to say here that I consider the double taxation of dividends to be a temporary tax, and that such taxation is not in line with the principle underlying the 1992 tax reform. Then I would like to point out that it is important to have a system where you avoid large-scale adaptations. One has to try to maintain neutrality as much as possible, and I think that the Government's proposals in this context have tried to reconcile these two factors when they now propose that the RISK sum be reduced in cases where, as in the case of dividend distribution, the taxpayer receives capital from the company. Christian People's Party supports the changes The Ministry of Finance has proposed. The other area I would like to mention, relates to Section 2.5, the limitation of loss deductions on the realisation of shares with offset entry value. To this end, I would like to say that the introduction of the tax reform in 1992 introduced transitional rules such as: exempt from tax the increase in capital formation generated before 1992. Until then, these values could be realized except for tax-free values. In the same way, the actionants could not expect loss on axes to be subtracted, since losses under previous rules could only be expected to be subtracted to a very limited extent. The cut-off limit of 10 years would help to reduce unfortunate adjustments and effects of the adjustment ratio, combined with the RISC regulation of the axes, over time. What is now apparent in practice is that the input value per. 1 January 2001 for some to exceed the actual value of the axans. What I mean is the ministry is notional loss positions that have emerged because of the transitional rules, and therefore this amendment. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to emphasize that the real loss is not bounded by this change. This is an important point for the Christian People's Party to support. The third area I want to mention is point 7.2. I would like briefly to say that there is a joint committee that wants the Minister of Finance to ensure that the transitional rules do not seem different from the way the municipal companies have organised themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e92	Since it is so late in the evening, I get to say with the ring that sat and leafed in the Psalm: Here are many fine hymns that we should have sung. With that treatment the Minister of Finance and the majority of the population have given the VAT reform, we could have sung all night. We abstain from hymns today. But be sure, on Friday, the Right will sing all the psalms that should really have been sung today, and it will happen during the treatment of the revised national budget. We're coming back stronger. But I would also like to say that there is a solid frailty when the government now goes out and says that the Right runs away from its responsibility, and creates the impression that we are against something we are for. The right has never been for this mess presented by the Government in connection with the introduction of the VAT reform. The right view of VAT reform should be well known. The majority of the population adopted the VAT reform in November 2000, which is scheduled to take effect from 1 July of this year, i.e. in about two and a half weeks. The right went against the extension of VAT at the time of treatment, as we do today. The reason was that the proposal was too poorly investigated, and that is the same reason we now have. There were no consultations and no transitional arrangements were provided for. In addition, the right-hand side was the introduction of half food moms. The development of this case has shown that we were right. There are innumerable examples of pointless frontiers. It's not useful to defend this because there'll always be border crossing problems. With the current emergency treatment, borderline migration is almost ad hoc and by the approach to entry, with no overall approach. It continues to be that many of the regulations are not clear, and it is two and a half weeks before the reform is implemented. If they fail the companies that are to practise the law, they will not have time to get into the regulations in a sufficiently good way. As I said, this debate will come back to Friday in the context of the review of the revised national budget. Let me, however, mention a few other things. First, the Right is satisfied that the Government is now following up the Right's proposal that students be given the freedom of choice to register either in their municipality of residence or in their municipality of study. On the other hand, the Government is not satisfied that the Government is now proposing to amend the tax rules on deductions from the realisation of a regulated-entry share or that there should be no reduction of the accumulated RISK amounts in the sale of quoted shares – this is due to double taxation of dividends. To put it briefly: the changes proposed now appear to be unacceptable and undermine predictability and confidence in the tax system. In addition, we would remind you that double taxation of dividends was provided for as a temporary tax. Now it looks like it's being added up to the fact that this can be permanent. I would like to raise the Right-wing proposal and the proposals for which the Right-wing proposal is a co-proposal and which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e115	Kjellaug Nakkim has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e118	Since the representative Nakkim proclaimed hymnsong in connection with the treatment of VAT on Friday, it is hereby announced that the Progress Party will participate in the choir and will not affect VAT at present. The Government proposes to make the deduction limit for losses on shares acquired before 1 January 1992, unlimited in time. Without amendment, the deduction limit will expire on 1 January 2002. I note that the Government places greater emphasis on avoiding some unfortunate outcomes of the transitional rules 10 years after the tax reform than on predictability and trust in the tax system. I am of the opinion that, almost independently of the justification, it is unacceptable for a reform to set a ten-year deadline for the deduction limit, then after nine and a half years to make the deduction limit unlimited. I see the Government's proposals as part of a series of proposals and decisions that weaken predictability and trust in the tax system, and therefore oppose the proposal. The government is relying on SND Invest AS to be exempted from tax liability because SND is exempt from tax liability. The progress party cannot see that sufficient justification has been provided for the tax treatment of SND Invest AS different from that of other companies engaged in similar activities. SND Invest AS is more than anything else a pure investment company that buys and sells shares in small and large enterprises. However, the company does not have the purpose of owning any enterprise, but enters enterprises that do not actually have a well-functioning market for the marketing of shares. However, this in itself is not a very good justification for exemption from tax liability. I would like to point out that the imposition of tax exemptions for SND Invest AS would be to discriminate against the company in relation to any other investment company that may, in principle and in practice, have the same purpose as SND Invest AS. In general, it must be considered as a competitive advantage not to pay taxes. The Progress Party considers that the issue of the tax exemption for SND Invest AS is not sufficiently addressed by Stortinget. The issue of tax freedom for SND Invest AS is not further justified after the Innst. O. No 29 for 1998-99 was released. A further extension of tax freedom, so that wholly-owned subsidiaries of SND Invest AS are granted tax freedom, is logical in itself, but the exemption from SND Invest AS still lacks sound justification, and the proposal must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e135	Let me briefly mention two aspects where SV has different suggestions in the setting. One concerns VAT on public transport, which is not actually mentioned in the text of the odelstingsproposition. The SV wants public transport not only to be exempted from VAT but also to be granted the right to deduct. We have now understood that tax relief is in time, and this is a very targeted tax relief proposal that will make investments in public transport cheaper for the airlines. That way, we can get the investment rate up for both NSB, Oslo Sporveier and whatever else it might be. I would like to promote this proposal. The debate on this will be essentially an open-ended one. The second aspect is that we want the VAT reform for services to be postponed. We have basically given our consent to VAT on services, but its closer date of implementation comes, the more we see how little prepared this VAT reform has been. Unfortunately, the reform seems more and more ridiculous, and unfortunately we also see that the way the Ministry of Finance and the Labour Party administration has dealt with this issue makes this appear now that the only responsible person in fact will be that the reform will be postponed for half a year, and that the department will go new rounds with all the implicated who are now, rightly, feeling unfairly treated. It is clear that borderline moves in such a reform are very difficult, but it is not necessary to make this as difficult as the Ministry of Finance has done. The numerous random exceptions granted by the Ministry of Finance mean that this is, of course, unfairly felt by those who have not been covered by the Workers' Party's random exemptions. This means that the only right thing had been that the entire service tax reform was suspended for six months, that it was sent back to the finance minister, so that he could have it taken with him on a summer vacation, thought a little more carefully, and went the necessary round that is actually necessary. It is a pity that reforms of this nature are being cut by such a comic character, which unfortunately has been dealt with by the Ministry of Finance. This is not the responsibility of the Storting. This is solely the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. With this I have also mentioned the second proposal SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e148	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the two suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 797]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e164	I'll just explain the cards. This is a matter which is largely unanimous on the part of the Financial Committee. The Financial Committee has found reason to point out in its position that this is a proposition which has been awaited for a very long time. This, in addition, gave the Committee very little time to deal with it before the summer, but we chose to do so because there was a strong need to modernise this legislation. I would also like to briefly point out that on a number of other occasions, the Committee has been committed to facilitating the development and strengthening of international competitiveness in Norwegian management environments. We have pointed out in the preamble that, through this treatment, the Ministry now has sufficient regulatory support to make the necessary changes, and ask that this be done as quickly as possible. I would ask the Minister of Finance to note this, so that the recommendations of the Hope Committee on the pooling of the capital management environment in the financial group, and not least the recommendations made earlier by the Financial Committee, are followed up. In view of the understanding of the Ministry's proposal for Section 4-5 of the Securities Fund Act, it is necessary to link some comments to the preparation of the provision, to which the Finance Committee has otherwise agreed: On page 75, right hand column, and on page 68, left column, the proposition states that the third and fourth paragraphs of the current section 4-4 shall be continued as the third and fourth paragraphs of section 4-5. This is not quite accurate, as the third and fourth paragraphs of Section 4-4 were repealed by the new Stock Exchange Act which entered into force earlier this year. So these two terms don't exist today. The cancellation occurred after what appears to be an incursion in the preparation of the stock exchange law, and I refer here to item 5.1 of Ot.prp. No 73 for 1999-2000. However, the two paragraphs in question are included in the wording of Sections 4 to 5 of the Securities Fund Act, so that they become the law in force again. With regard to the proposal for the second paragraph of Section 4-6 of the Securities Fund Act, I would like to mention that this implies that the second paragraph of Section 4-4 before the Stock Exchange Act came into force will become the law in force again. I assume that the Department will go through these points on the first occasion to ensure that the relationship between the Stock Exchange Act and the Securities Fund Act is consistent. Otherwise, I will take up the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 801]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e199	I just want to make a brief explanation of vote. The Progress Party will vote against the suspension, stating that we believe that the disposal of Statoil’s shares does not, in principle, differ from the disposal of holdings in any other company. We therefore believe that these funds should not enter the Petroleum Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e206	The President then took note of that explanation of vote. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President would also like to thank the Financial Committee for a thorough debate in the middle of the night. [[Footing, see page 810]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e218	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e225	In the vote there are also announced proposals from the representative Steinar Bastesen, and the president will only ask the representative Steinar Bastesen if he will take up those proposals from his place. – It is confirmed. In the course of the debate, ten proposals were put forward. It's: proposals Nos 1 and 2, by Kjellaug Nakkim on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Basteen, 3 and 4, by Kjellaug Nakkim, on behalf of the Right and the Party for Progress, 5 and 6, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 7-10, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e293	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No. 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: 14 is replaced by the following:Services related to the carriage of passengers by air. 15 is replaced by the following:Vehicles using only electricity for propulsion.§ 63, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following:No charge shall be paid for the introduction of goods as referred to in paragraph 5 of the first subparagraph: 6 a and b, § 16, first paragraph, no. 7, 8 and 15 and Section 17, first paragraph, No. 1.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e384	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: 8 shall be deleted.’;» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e459	The President has understood that the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e489	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e524	The President here will vote on the motions for resolutions as a whole. 7–10, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the tax law. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «In the Wealth and Income Act of 26 March 1999 No. Paragraphs 8 to 7 are replaced by the following:Sections 8 to 7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vessels Tax payers operating fishing activities on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deductions from general income for the provision of funds in accordance with the rules of this provision. [[1]] The provision is limited up to 30 pst. [[2]] the general income for the year from the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph. [[3]] Provision must be made for the provision of reserves within the time limit laid down in this Article. [[4]] Amounts deducted under the above provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disposed of and not later than the fifth year after the deduction of the amount. [[5]] The Ministry shall prescribe the completion and implementation of this provision.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «In the Wealth and Income Act of 26 March 1999 No. 14 is amended as follows:§ 6-60 Special deductions for fishermen and fishermen Tax payers who, for at least 130 days of the year of income, have been personally engaged in or engaged in fishing or fishing at sea or along the coast, are deducted by up to 30 pst. [[1]] of net labour income from fishing or fishing, limited to NOK 125 000.§ 6-61 Special deductions for seafarers Seafarers are deducted by up to 30 pst. [[1]] of the income on board, limited to NOK 125 000.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Article 14 to 43 is replaced by the following: d. ships and fishing vessels covered by the first subparagraph e. The balance of these means of operation may be depreciated by up to 20 per cent. The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this provision.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 5-15, the following point (m) is added: m) benefit gained from work which is not business income on board ships and from work in the form of fishing. IIThe I amendment shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2001.The Ministry may provide transitional rules, including rules on the reduction of minimum deductions and deductions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e646	The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 21 December 2000 113 on amendments to Law No 19 June 1969 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:ILOven is repealed.IIAmendment enters into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e668	The President will then vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 21 December 2000 113 on amendments to Law No 19 June 1969 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: 13 is replaced by:Professional passenger transport.§ 16, first paragraph, new paragraph. 14 shall be replaced by the following: provision of services as referred to in paragraph 1; 13.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e688	So it's going to be over all of the paragraphs under VIII. The President has understood that the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen support the changes in the law in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e713	The President will first vote on proposal No. 5, of the Socialist Left Party, on entry into force. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 21 December 2000 113 on amendments to Law No 19 June 1969 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:IIThe amendment enters into force on 1 January 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e729	IX is taken up for feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e738	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e748	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e777	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law of 10 June 1988 No 40 on financial activities and financial institutions shall Paragraph 2-2, second paragraph, point (b) of this Article. 9 new third sentence is replaced by the following: without prejudice to the first subparagraph, Member States may own more than 10 pst. of the share capital of the Export Finances ASA.IIThe law shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e799	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e808	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e2335	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e2344	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e2446	The Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e2457	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against here? – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-11-lower.ana.ud1829e2470	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
