ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e67	The representative, Erna Solberg, will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e70	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Kristian Foss, Trond Helleland and myself, I will be allowed to propose changes to the law on competition in acquisition activities to ensure political independence in all matters under the law. [[Competition Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e75	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e87	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes and one of the independent representatives 5 minutes. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e96	All independent nations need to secure themselves against terrorism, expose and stop intelligence activities by foreign powers and secure information on the international threat scene. Every country in the world needs secret services. Norway currently has an up-to-date surveillance service — a surveillance service that is criticized when something goes wrong, and rarely can be praised when something goes very well. It is in the nature of the service – success is kept secret. We get to know from time to time when foreign intelligence agencies are exposed and expelled from Norway, but we never know the results of the prevention work. The management of the surveillance service may not always stand up and receive praise for the results of the service. But there is no doubt that the activities of the surveillance service have saved human lives. The alleged sins of the past have been turbulent around the surveillance service for some years. It eventually resulted in a sample to carry out a full review of the organisation and legal framework of the service. I think the result was good for the surveillance service. The selection concluded clearly and unambiguously that Norway needs a surveillance service today as much as it needs during the Cold War. A unanimous Justice Department agrees with this conclusion. Several nations still carry out significant intelligence activities in Norway. At the same time, there are a number of terrorist organisations based on different parts of the world that pose a threat to the population of most countries. Today, terrorist acts from bases in Afghanistan are planned and carried out in Nairobi. It might as well happen in Norway, especially if we signal that we do not consider it an important task to prevent terrorism. There has long been a desire to have the tasks of the monitoring service clearly defined in a law. The Ministry has come up with a proposal to define the tasks through new paragraphs of the Police Act. The majority of the Judicial Committee agrees with the Ministry as to which tasks are so important that they should be defined in a legislative text. The Progress Party and the representative, Jørn Stag, want in addition to have the surveillance service legalised in the fight against organised crime, and will re-establish the mission of the bodyguard service, which the surveillance service lost to Oslo Police District by a decision of the Government last year. In other words, the Judicial Committee fully agrees that the surveillance service should have exclusive competence to prevent and investigate crimes against the security of the State, cases relating to illegal intelligence activities, sabotage operations, terrorism, politically motivated violence, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and illegal technology transfer. In a number of other areas, there is full agreement that the monitoring service should have an important assistance function. There is some disagreement in the Committee on the clear definition of the monitoring service’s work to combat organised crime. Everyone agrees that the monitoring service has an important role to play, particularly in the context of the operational and analytical competence of the service and the contact with collaborative services. The majority of the Committee considers that the ordinary police should continue to have primary responsibility for this type of crime and that the surveillance service should have an auxiliary function upon the prior request of the responsible police unit. The Progress Party and the representative of Jørn Stag consider that the national supervisory assistance function should not be limited to assisting only on request, and that the monitoring service should be given a self-responsive responsibility in line with the ordinary police in preventing international organised crime. There is disagreement in the Committee on the Oslo Police District or the Surveillance Service shall be responsible for the bodyguard service. This service was transferred to the Oslo Police District from 1 October 2000. The majority of the Committee takes this decision into account, but requests that an evaluation be carried out during 2002 on the appropriateness of the transfer carried out and that the results of this evaluation be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Even signed, as a representative of the Progress Party, is convinced that the transfer of the bodyguard service from the surveillance service to the Oslo police district was a mistake. The members of the bodyguards of the surveillance service served in a section that provided them with information on international conditions, the threat picture and analytical conditions. This is relevant knowledge relevant to both international and national lifeguards. The vigilance service was a naturally integrated part of the terrorist prevention work. In my opinion, it is critical that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum moved this important job out of the surveillance service at a time when the department was working on a case for the Stortingen on the duties of the surveillance service. The monitoring service is currently closely controlled by the Storting Control Committee. The Danielsen Committee assessed whether the monitoring service control of this sample should be extended to cover the overall oversight of the prosecution authority, and the majority of the sample concluded positively. I am very pleased that the Justice Committee has held its tongue in its mouth and comes with a unanimous and strong warning against eroding the very central democratic principle of a free and independent prosecution authority. Both the State Attorney, the Head of Monitoring and the Ministry of Justice disagree that the EOS Committee should be able to control the overall prosecution authority. Everyone argues that it is an important principle that the prosecution authority is independent from political authorities. When a unanimous Justice Department now says the same thing, any thought of expanding the control area of the EOS Committee in this direction should have been turned back forever. And finally, after this day, we can say good-bye to the police surveillance service and welcome to the police security service. It will be the new name of a service that is the same as before, with mainly the same tasks and with skilled employees. We have a surveillance service in Norway that we can all be proud of. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Stag, that have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e124	The representative Jan Simonsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e127	I think the case rapporteur, Jan Simonsen, gave a good account of the Committee's position, but I also think that, in the light of the debate on the monitoring service after and during the work of the Lund Commission, it was important to clear out the legal regulation of the service that is now taking place, and underline the important point that Mr Simonsen concluded, namely that there is a broad political consensus that there is a need for a monitoring service to prevent threats to the security, terrorism and illegal intelligence of the country, even if the current threat situation is not critical. There is also broad agreement on all aspects of the organisational structure and legal framework conditions. There is some difference in the Committee’s view on two points – to which the rapporteur also referred – and I would just like to briefly repeat the justification in relation to the possible legalisation of organised crime as a primary task for the monitoring service, or the security service. We believe that that service has a role to play, not as a primary task, but at the request of the general police, precisely because it has also been an important purpose simply to create the necessary boundaries with the general police, that is. who shall initially have those tasks as primary tasks. I also see that both the national lawyer and the police director agree with the delimitation of the government, which, as said, does not give primary responsibility to organised crime, but also states in the legislative text that they can be assigned tasks related to this in addition to the usual reporting obligations they have in relation to instructions. As far as the bodyguard service is concerned, I don't want to go so far as to say that I'm critical of the decision that was made last year by the Government. We've taken note of it. It is clear that there are questions about what lies within the formal authority of individuals, but we clearly see that the purpose of cleaning up the primary tasks of the surveillance service, and that there should not be a bodyguard service in two police units, are good reasons for the change that has taken place. However, we note in the committee position that an evaluation must be carried out after a period of time, and we suggest during 2002, since coordination only started at the end of last year. But the main picture remains, and what I want to get out of the pulpit of Storting is that there is a broad political consensus on the legal regulation of the security service that we are doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e138	I don't mean to say much about the police surveillance service, POT. On the other hand, I intend to talk about the police security service, because with the decision we are making today, we no longer have any POT. Ot. pp. No 29 proposes a change of name, and it has joined the entire committee. After that, it shall be called the Police Security Service. The service has been in focus at regular intervals in recent years. The matter that we are dealing with today is, hopefully, the final outcome of a long process. The Lund Commission’s report took a thorough review of, inter alia, the monitoring service in Norway and made many critical comments. As a follow-up to the Lund Commission, a sample, the Danielsen Committee, was appointed to look at the organisation and framework conditions of the monitoring service. Ot. pp. No 29 follow up on the recommendations of the sample, and with all the work that has now been done in this area, everything should facilitate an up-to-date and effective security service with a clear framework for its work. There is no doubt that we need an up-to-date and effective security service. Unfortunately, the world is not such that everyone wants each other well, whether it be individuals, organisations or countries. That's why we have to be prepared in many different areas, and the police security service has to cover some of them. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the legislative process now taking place in relation to the central tasks of the security service. One of the most important tasks of the security service will be to prevent and investigate crimes against the Kingdom’s security. It is important not to be naive, and threats exist today too. We also need to be aware that the threats can change both in form and content. Sabotage and intelligence activities are other key tasks the service has to deal with, monitoring and hidden investigations of terrorism and violent, extreme groupings as well. Other tasks regulated by law are the control of cases involving the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illegal technology transfer, organised crime, crimes against humanity, genocide and gross war crimes. The security service shall be a special body of the police action. One of the few points on which the Committee is divided is in the view of combating organised crime. The majority, such as The Christian People's Party is part of, is committed to the fight against organised crime as a task for the security service, but that this should be done in the form of an assistance function for the ordinary police and not an independent responsibility for the service. The Christian People's Party assumes that this is a close and close cooperation between the service and the police, so that this area is well maintained. The majority have followed up recommendations from the Danielsen Committee. If the service were given this as a self-reliance, it would involve a substantial extension of the tasks compared to today’s. Both the national lawyer and the police director believe that the security service in this area should have an aid function. As far as the bodyguard service is concerned, it's transferred to the Oslo Police Chamber. The Christian People's Party wishes to evaluate this during 2002 to see if the scheme is appropriate. We also believe that an important area of security services is to provide threat assessments to policy authorities. If policy authorities are to be able to implement the right measures, a sound decision-making basis is needed. That's the threat assessments to give. Because this problem is so important, it's also right to legislate. A difficult and important question has been whether the EOS Committee should be able to control the overall prosecution authority. A majority in the Danielsen Committee thought so, but many others have gone against it, among others. the national lawyer, the head of surveillance and the department. The Christian People's Party will stress that the reason why the Committee has not supported the majority of the Danielsen Committee is that we place the decisive emphasis on a free and independent prosecution authority. This principle would be broken if the EOS Committee, as a politically appointed supervisory body, could exercise control over the overall prosecution authority. Finally, the Christian People's Party will stress that good recruitment to the security service is important and that it is important to bring in people with education other than police. In an increasingly complex and complex world, there is a need for different types of knowledge in the security service. It is necessary for the overall competence of the security service to be as good as possible. There are still areas that I have not touched on, but the rapporteur had a good and thorough review. I would like to stress that it is neither possible nor desirable to regulate the activities of the security service in detail in the law. What is important, however, is that today we legislate the most central tasks for the service, so that there is a framework for the business. A good judgement must help to draw up the limits of what cannot be legislated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e168	The case spokesperson was concerned that the police surveillance service has been getting a lot shut up over time, and they have gasped it in view of a part of the business that has been going on. But let's hope that one today is facing a turning point where one gets a monitoring service that works according to the intentions that the political majority wants. I also believe that the Lund Commission has played an important role and helped to get you cleaned up. SV is not in the committee, so I just have to specify a few points. The one thing that many people have been about, this with the EOS selection's ability to control a superior prosecution power. SV agrees with the Committee that they should not have that function, but SV would like to make it clear that it requires the Governing Board to act politically independently. It's important for me to be told. It hasn't always been easy. Not least Berge Furre-saka taught us a lesson there. So here one has to follow the principle of independence, even in such matters. The principle of independence demands both for us and for the superior authority of the prosecution. SV's other comment is related to the threat assessments that a proxy has to offer. SV agrees that one should develop such threat assessments for political governance. However, there is a basis for questioning the threat assessments that are being carried out today. Of course, I have experienced that the assessments you make are not always so rational and reasonable. On 6 April this year, we felt that a very peaceful demonstration against the cynicism of the pharmaceutical industry in the context of AIDS medicine was encountered with a misassessment, the threat image was misjudged. The police met 50 peaceful demonstrators with clubs and shields, and the Stortinget was shut off with fences and police. There is therefore a basis for asking for threat assessments to be reviewed and renewed, not least on the basis of the increasing power we experience from the racist and neo-Nazi environment. The tragic killing of Benjamin illustrates what the main focus must be. Finally, SV will warn against too much interference with our military defence and surveillance service. History has taught us that such contact is not always good. SV thinks there must be a clear distinction between what is the defence's mission and what is the police's. When the Committee recommends that the monitoring service be able to participate in military exercises, this clear distinction may be erased. I have now done well for the few objections that SV has raised in this matter. So we have no alternative suggestions, but we have some things that we point to that we think it is important for the monitoring services to take care of in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e181	I noticed in the last post that you had no alternative suggestions. Then I think it was relatively unnecessary for this attempt to reverse the secret services that SV has been fairly isolated in all post-war years. We've had an important review of the secret services, and we've come up with a solution that I think everyone agrees on. For my part, I would like to stress that the need for a monitoring service is as great today as it has been in the past. Several nations still carry out significant intelligence activities in Norway. At the same time, there are a number of terrorist organisations based on different parts of the world that can strike in Norway if it is no longer considered an important task to prevent terrorist acts. I also agree that it is important to further regulate the main tasks of the monitoring service and that the international cooperation of the monitoring service is so important for the service that this cooperation should be regulated as part of the service’s tasks. I am pleased that we now have the law establishing that the surveillance service has an instructional obligation to transmit relevant information to the other police, and that information received by the service from cooperative services can be very relevant and of great interest to the police units entrusted with the primary responsibility for combating organised crime. In addition, the monitoring service will, upon request, be responsible for obtaining any additional information and providing questions and answers in specific cases. I would like to refer to the Danielsen Committee, which believes that the operational and analytical competence of the monitoring service could be an important contribution to the fight against organised crime, and that the service could attract bills of exchange for cooperation with foreign security and intelligence services. It is therefore important to stress that the monitoring service should be involved in the prevention and investigation of organised crime. However, the monitoring service should not be entrusted with self-reliance on the same level as the ordinary police with regard to organised crime. This would result in a substantial extension of the tasks of the surveillance service and emphasis should be placed on the performance of the primary duties of the service and the relationship with the responsibilities of other police units. I would point out that both the national lawyer and the police director agree with this assessment. With regard to the bodyguard service, I will briefly endorse the view expressed by the representative Vidar Bjørnstad. We look forward to an evaluation of a matter to which it was not really easy for us to join. As far as the EOS Committee is concerned, I am also pleased that we have reached an agreement on this. In particular, I would point out that the national lawyer believes that it would lead to a marked breach of a Norwegian tradition of more than a hundred years if a politically appointed supervisory body reporting to the Stortinget were to be given authority to exercise control over the overall prosecution authority. I fully agree with the conclusions and arguments of the State Attorney and the Head of Monitoring, and will strongly warn against the hollowing out of the very central democratic principle of a free and independent prosecution authority. With these comments I would recommend the setting, and I am very pleased that we have achieved virtually unanimity in relation to these sensitive and very important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e202	It is very positive that the police security service has received the thorough and proper report they have received in the committee position. It's important. It is also important that there is a broad majority behind the service, with the exception of those points where the Progress Party has divergent positions. On these points, the Left is in agreement with the majority of the Committee, i.e. both in terms of views on organised crime, where we believe that the service should be an aid body, and in terms of prosecution, where we fully agree with the Ministry that no one should intervene in the prosecution authority – i.e. the EOS Committee should not intervene in the prosecution authority in the areas outlined here – and we also agree with the Committee on the organisation of the bodyguard service. With that in mind, I would like to link some comments to the service and the service function. I think it is good that the Committee has generally examined the threats you might face. I also think it is important that it is confirmed that a threat assessment is now being carried out which, through a specific procedure, is finally cleared politically both by the Minister of Justice and by the Government Security Committee. I also agree that there are important aspects of the service that should never be out to the public, including: sources, but I think you can talk openly and directly about things that are serious and that concern the citizens of the Kingdom. I think there are aspects of such a threat assessment that we know, which you can talk about, because if something is serious, a country's citizens should have insight into what is serious. This does not mean going into details that are unnecessary in order to protect the specific nature of the service. But if so, for example. As a result of the fact that we no longer have good international agreements on weapons of mass destruction, we should be aware of groupings that are different from our infrastructure, and there is reason to mention them in such a way that people can naturally be on guard. So this can happen in two ways. One way is not to say anything, and the other way is to say it so dramatic that people are looking for an agent behind every corner. But there is a wide gap in this landscape, where you can reason and talk about something. What should be secret should be secret, but what the secret should protect us from can't be secret. It must be able to withstand a review – and something broader and more precise than the Committee has done. So I would simply encourage the Council of States to ensure, on an appropriate occasion, that the threat assessments with which the Government operates, which are important to the citizens of the Kingdom, are made known in an appropriate way. There's a lot of ways that can happen, but I'd like to express it. I also express it because I have great respect for the service we are currently dealing with. I think it has a very important task in Norway, and it has become no less important with the new threats we are facing. Nevertheless, at the end of the article, I will address a historical relationship. I think that as we get all the keys – or whatever it is now called – that make us transparent in the Stasi archives, Norway should also be able to tolerate its own Truth Commission. We should be able to tolerate what we find here, independently of criminal law, under the light of history. When a country is far away from our cultural circle, in South Africa, able to talk about rock-hard conditions, and when you can talk about tough conditions elsewhere, we have to face up to the fact that Stasi is also part of our history, just as the Lund Commission is part of our history. The Lund Commission was necessary to intervene and look at some issues, but knowing what the Stasi system, with large and small, did – and they probably didn't do the most with our country, they did it elsewhere – is also part of the truth that should be on the table. And when we gradually get on the table history that describes how Norwegian intelligence has existed in the postwar period, when we get history that depicts nuclear weapons stocks or plans to do so until 1970, this part of history must also be part of our common heritage. It may not be as comfortable for all people, but it must be part of our common heritage. And when I mention it, it's because you're facing systems and regimes that are as thorough and as totalitarian as the regime was able to create an intelligence device that included 12-13 pst. of the entire adult population, and who gradually manage to create a grip with a mixture of German communist and Nazi fundamentality in a common tradition. Then it is good that we are also told. So my appeal is that the Council of State assesses whether there is a suitable occasion where one can also ensure that the historical facts about what the Stasi archives tell about the relationship with Norway are made known.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e217	The main objective of today’s Odelsting Proposition is to legalise key aspects of the monitoring service’s tasks. The legislative proposal forms part of the follow-up to the Danielsen Committee’s 1998 NOU:4 investigation into police surveillance services, and the Ministry’s proposals are based mainly on the evaluations and recommendations of the sample. The question of the need for regulatory regulation of the EOS services has been discussed in the past and a law has already been implemented for the other two services, the Defence Intelligence Service and the Defence Security Service. A natural follow-up to this work is a legalisation of the tasks of the monitoring service, which has until now been regulated only by instructions. The proposal also mentions different aspects relevant to the monitoring service in addition to the purely regulatory regulation of the tasks of the service. In this way, we want to explain the overall follow-up to the Danielsen Committee's investigation. Proposition production, evaluations and conclusions are based on the continued need for a surveillance service in Norway, albeit renamed security service, and the organisation of the service as a special police body. In addition, it is considered that the two-track liability system, the relationship between the Minister of Justice and the overall responsibility of the prosecution authority for the activities of the monitoring service should be continued and that the monitoring service should continue to have investigative and prosecution competence. I am not going to go into the individual proposals on what will be the future tasks of the security service. The rapporteur has had a good review of it and the proposed legislation is consistent with that which has been the framework for the tasks of the monitoring service according to the applicable instructions. However, I would like to highlight a few points. The monitoring service’s assistance and advisory function relating to security measures in various public and private establishments and enterprises is included, at the discretion of the Ministry, as a central part of the prevention activity in the core areas of the service. We have not considered that necessary to propose the law. Nor is it considered necessary to highlight in a separate legal provision that the surveillance service should, where appropriate, carry out necessary checks on residents and permanent residents, and that the service should also be allowed without such a provision to take preventive action against non-residents in Norway, if this is necessary for the performance of the duties of the service. Cooperation with the police authorities of other countries, security and intelligence services is so important for the Monitoring Centre that the task is proposed by law. The same applies to the preparation by the Monitoring Centre of threat assessments for policy authorities. I would like to clarify that the threat assessments referred to here are, first of all, the national threat assessment to be carried out, as also described by the representative of Dørum, in accordance with special procedures related to the national priority of what the security service is to work on within the regulatory framework in force. And I want to stress that the process is now also being carried out in such a way as to try to involve others than the monitoring service itself as an adviser, such as. NUPI and the Defence Research Institute, just to get control and to get a different view of what the current threat picture really is. I think it's a very good and a very correct improvement in the way the surveillance service works. And that's for example. in the annual threat assessments that political authorities can demonstrate that it is a central task to pay particular attention to right-wing remote environments, neo-Nazist groupings as they emerge. When regulating the activities of the monitoring service, the organisation of the service should also be referred to in general. It is therefore proposed to establish in the form of a law that the service is a special body of the police and that the special body is managed by a central unit. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee endorses the Government's proposal for new provisions of the Police Act on the duties and organisation of the surveillance service. I am of the opinion that the bill takes account in a balanced manner of the concerns expressed in relation to other police agencies, the Defence Intelligence Service and the Defence Security Service. Finally, I will take with me the invitation from the representative Dørum and can join me in much of the assessments he makes of the need for both transparency and secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e240	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e254	As rapporteur, I would like to point out that access control through various forms of coding and encryption must have an economic motive for being covered by the EEA Directive. In Article 4, the Directive provides for a ban on business activities relating to equipment providing unauthorised access to information society services. It is for each Member State to decide whether to prohibit, in addition, the private holding and use of piracy equipment, but internal legislation shall provide for access to the relevant remedies to stop and remedy the unlawful diversion of piracy equipment and piracy software for those providing protected services. The vast majority of piracy today takes place in analogue distribution in the case of pay-TV. Companies are now choosing more digital solutions that lead to major problems for those who have illegally obtained the possibility of using services for which they have not paid. The illegal cards were previously marketed through block advertisements in the newspapers. Now the Internet is increasingly the point of contact between the seller and the buyer. It is problematic that many decoding devices can have both a legal and an illegal use, which may pose difficult evidence problems for different types of use of equipment. The Committee concludes that criminalising the possession of decoders extends the ban for a long time and at the same time supports the proposed penalties for breaches of the rules, including fines or prisons up to six months for the illicit use of piracy devices. It is also shown to St.prp. No 61 for 2000-2001, which concerns consent to the approval of the EEA Directive, No 17/2001, concerning the legal protection of access controlled and access control services, which have been dealt with by the Storting earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e267	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e281	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e295	I'm going to be relatively short. When the Stortinge dealt with the Transparency Act, a majority decided to ask the Government to submit proposals which would enable the person granted access to the law to require the maculation and deletion of incorrect or unlawful information. The Ministry has now, to the best of its ability, tried to follow up this decision, and it is of course affordable for the Ministry to follow up a decision in Stortinget. Attempts have been made to bring the legal text as close as possible to the intentions of the decision of the majority of the population. It may not have been that simple, because the decision in Stortinget is based on different comments from different fractions, but at least it has now been done as well as it has been possible. I have been informed that the Department has later received a call from the Transparency Committee, and I suppose the Minister of Justice will explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e306	The proposal contains proposals for a new provision of the Transparency Act, which allows the person granted access to the law to require the mutilation of incorrect or unlawful information. When the Transparency Act was sent to the hearing, the Ministry proposed that persons being granted access to their own ‘Folder’ should be entitled to require the documents in question to be mashed after transparency. The proposal met strong opposition from the National Archives/Ministry of Culture, which considered that the material should be sent to the National Archives for storage after the closure of the access regime. The consultation comment was taken into account, and when the proposition was promoted in the Council of State, it contained no proposal for a right to mutilation. During the examination of the legislative proposal by the Committee, the issue of mutilation was raised and proposals were made for persons granted access to the requirement to require the mutilation of ‘unfair’ or ‘unlawful’ information. On the same day as the Transparency Act was adopted on 4 March 1999, the majority of the majority of the majority in plenary adopted the proposal put forward by the Committee. The Ministry has followed up the wishes of the majority by drawing up a legislative proposal as close as possible to the decision making process, which also reflects the comments on the provision. The Transparency Committee, the body examining requests for transparency and compensation, has, in a letter to the Ministry after the proposition was transmitted to the Stortinget, pointed out some uncertainties that may arise in connection with the amendment of the law. This is primarily related to aspects of the understanding of the criteria for the right to maculation. Against this background, I think it is right to point out that the present legislative proposal does not essentially open up access to demand makulated information about political attitudes or activities. The collection of information on policy positions and activities was temporarily collected in violation of the applicable instructions, but this was not ‘illegal’ information. In addition, the Transparency Committee has addressed various issues relating to economic and administrative consequences. In my view, as in the case of the transparency mechanism, it is difficult to say in advance how many would require a maculation. This makes it difficult to calculate an approximate accurate estimate of the economic and administrative consequences of a mutilation scheme. From the Ministry's point of view, we are committed to helping the Transparency Committee to find practical arrangements to maximise the use of some resources. I would also like to follow up on whether the amendment of the law – against assumption – should lead to other problems in relation to the practical follow-up by the Transparency Committee, and, if necessary, to return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e321	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e335	SV is not on the Justice Committee and has not been able to discuss this issue. We believe that what is proposed here will act as a governing force in general transparency, as cooperative services can in a way say what one is allowed to see, and thus steer Norwegian transparency policy. This is actually a explanation of vote: SV will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e344	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 489]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e358	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 489]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e372	Both the proposal and the committee position speak for themselves, but I would like to elaborate on why the proposal has been promoted. The left has promoted the proposal because we feel that we are faced with a new state in many ways, which I would describe as the «accounting State». In a number of areas, the normal legal and administrative environment between freedom and responsibility is being replaced by the ever-increasing level of detail regulation and controls. I am absolutely convinced that many of these rules, which have had a purpose, eventually survive in spite of their own purpose. During visits to many places in this country, for example: in research institutions, in schools and in health institutions — that is, far from where the form debate often takes place, i.e. in small and medium-sized enterprises — I experience a call that some people have to clean up this landscape, which consists of regulations and rules that go so far that people with a simple little story would actually be able to say something more important about what they are doing than what you do through the legal and regulatory system that you have. In areas, this is the case, for example: in parts of the Law on Planning and Building, that to build a small-volume building in Oslo you need 50-60 pages, while for a building with ten times the volume in Gothenburg you need three or four pages, with a quick process. So we in Norway have been able to develop a system that is so deadly that the purpose, like the Left, is that no society can exist without regulation, is in the process of creating so many rules that one approaches the situation that one can sit and cheat on even thoroughly law-abiding citizens, who signed, are able to follow – that is, whether I am able to follow along to be absolutely sure that I am at all times related to the legislation that exists. For this reason, the Left has promoted the proposal that we have called'sunset legislation', which does not go to law, but which says that a guillotine should fall into regulation every ten years unless an active clean-up work is carried out in order for them to live on. We're going to stand on that principle. We're convinced that's right. We note that we now do not get as wide a connection as we had hoped, but we are pleased with the connection we have received, and we are going to continue the discussion on this. Here it is spreading a mentality in the Norwegian society that is undermining the creativity of people, whether they are in the work of the spirit or of the hand, whether they are in the business or they are in the public sphere. I want to finish it this way: in large parts of the public there are lots of good people, but sometimes they are entangled by systems that are so demanding and so destructive that their creativity is not liberated and gives full currency both for taxpayers' money and for the trust that lies in what they are supposed to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e385	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this case because it is a different committee than mine. But it's an incredibly important thing that the Left here brings on the track, which deserves far more attention than from an almost empty hall that we experience here tonight. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim presented a project for «Simplify Norway». As far as I remember, it was in the summer of 1999. Sponheim gave the solemn promise to all small and medium-sized businesses in Norway that, within two years, the form field would be reduced by 25 p.m. and included some laws, regulations and other obligations to traders. Now there was a new government after eight to nine months. And I looked into it a little bit. In the eight-to-nine months set by the central government, it was only possible to reduce this form field by approx. Six per million. And I figured it would take 360 years to be able to reduce it by 25 pst, as the government had promised. I think it's a good proposal The Left comes with, a'sunset law', and the public bureaucracy is going to start working. It says here that there is concern that during a transitional period it will lead to greater work and greater bureaucracy. But I don't think it can be burdensome. There must be the results of this work that counts. I'll be careful to bring up the proposal on behalf of the minority. It looks like I'm the only one present in the Chamber who will take the floor, and then I have to take up the proposal, even though it should be the largest party behind a minority proposal that takes up the proposal, right? I will also draw attention to the work done by the NHO by reviewing the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. They have addressed part of the simplification work to be carried out – 46 projects. It turns out that very much of this work has stopped, and it has not been possible to gather all the excise duty regulations into one regulation, which has been at the hearing since the autumn of 1999. I will end by saying that the field of forms, laws and regulations for individuals and business is like a ten-headed troll. If you cut out one or two heads, it immediately grows new, and then it's important to keep working from several parties in this area if we're going to move on and on with the regulatory level you have in many other countries. There is a great need for simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e400	The representative Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e403	In Document No: 8:76. The representatives of Storing Sponheim, Kvassheim, Dørum and Kongshaug submit a proposal for a so-called ‘sunset law’. Under the proposal, regulations shall be valid for a maximum period of 10 years. It is necessary to re-adopt regulations which are to apply for more than this. The proposal shall ensure that the rules applicable at all times are relevant and reflect real needs. I support the idea behind the proposal. Simplification of rules is a central part of the Government's renewal program. Simplification of legislation can increase legal certainty and lower the level of costs in both business and management. Complicated legislation with unnecessary demands and impositions creates irritation and weakens respect for the legislation. A number of measures are currently being taken to contribute to a simpler regulatory environment. The Ministry of Justice manages a project to simplify and clean up the regulatory system. The project focuses mainly on the design and not the content of the regulations. The aim is to create a better structure in the regulatory system. In addition, several projects are in progress leading to substantive changes. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade deals with the simplification of rules and forms in relation to business. Another example is the work of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on state legislation aimed at the municipal sector. The project shall give municipalities greater freedom of action. Several aspects of social development can counter the objective of a single regulatory framework. A more diverse and complex society creates the need for new regulation. International legislation increasingly imposes requirements on Norwegian legislation. In particular, I am aiming at the human rights conventions and the EEA rules. This makes regulatory simplification all the more important, both in terms of form and content. A more active post-control of legislation is a current instrument here. However, I would not recommend the Stortinget to adopt a general ‘sunset law’ for regulations. Such a law may have a number of unintended effects. The proposal for a ‘sunset law’ is primarily justified in order to avoid unnecessary burdens for the population. This is a good purpose, of course, which I support. However, it is important to stress that many regulations – even if they are not always heard about when regulations and regulations are being attacked – also confer rights that are of great importance to individuals. Examples are regulations that give entitlement to social security or social assistance. In the field of business, there are provisions allowing for the operation of a particular type of activity. A law that says that such regulations only apply for 10 years can create uncertainty and poor predictability. The proposed ‘sunset rule’ shall apply to all requirements of both municipal and central government. The proposal also includes existing regulations. It is therefore necessary to review many thousands of regulations within a relatively short period of time. I fear that the proposal – if adopted – will create a lot of bureaucracy and an increase in public expenditure. A prescription can rarely be put straight into an envelope and sent to the hearing. The management shall first examine whether, and where, adjustments may be necessary. Thereafter, letters of consultation shall be drawn up with proposals for any changes. After the hearing, the views of the hearing opinions shall be assessed and incorporated. It is then necessary to arrange for its adoption and publication. Without such a process, there is little point in a ten-year renewal round. Public resources are limited. The Norwegian population is required to use these resources where they are most beneficial. In my view, therefore, management should give priority to a more thorough back-testing of regulations that are important to citizens and businesses, rather than to a superficial assessment of all the regulations. I also stress that the quality assessment of legislation must be carried out on an ongoing basis. The aim is that the regulatory framework should be constantly adapted to societal developments. A ten-year validity rule may result in the suspension of changes to the overall review. It can be unfortunate for both individuals and businesses. There may be difficult situations if an administrative body fails to renew the regulation in time or if the regulation is ignored. The regulation work is so large that it is impossible to guarantee against defects. Such errors may be particularly unfortunate if legislation implements international legislation. As a result, Norway is breaking its obligations under international law, with civil liability as a consequence. Not all errors can be repaired afterwards. You can, for example: an administrative body forgets to renew a regulation prohibiting a dangerous chemical. The consequence may be that the substance is used and harms health or the environment without intervention by the authorities. What I have said does not mean that I am generally opposed to provisions on the period of validity of regulations. On the contrary, I believe that a «sunset rule» may have a lot to do in some cases. A ‘sunset rule’ may, for example: make sense if the legislation is important and there is uncertainty about its impact. The point is that the need for such a rule needs to be assessed in concrete terms. Rules on the period of validity should often be combined with a post-control plan. The aim of this verification will be, first and foremost, to verify the proper functioning of the legislation. In some cases, it may be sufficient to review the practices of the regulatory authorities. In other cases there is a need for empirical studies, such as: on the behaviour of individuals and businesses in relation to legislation. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is in the process of carrying out such an evaluation of the Social Services Act. I believe that administration should become more aware of the importance of active back-testing. Here we have an improvement potential. This is not a matter for the Norwegian administration alone. The need to focus on post-control and regulatory simplification is increasing also in other Western countries. The EU has launched measures to simplify EU legislation. Some directives require the European Commission to submit reports on the functioning of the legislation. The OECD is currently preparing guidelines for the post-control of industrial legislation. As part of the renewal programme, the Government aims to develop better regulatory back-testing procedures. It is my hope that such procedures can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the proposal for a ‘Sunsets Act’ for regulatory purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e441	Did Odd Einar Dørum ask for the word in line – or was it the next on the list of speakers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e444	The President decides in what form I'm going to keep the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e451	It's going to be line change. Odd Einar Dørum is given the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e454	There was a lot of sympathetic goodwill in the articles of the Council of State. She draws a different political conclusion, and I accept that. What made me take the floor was that I could see it as if it were behind the intention of us who have promoted the proposal, was that we should institute a practice that resulted in superficiality. It's an attitude that I don't recognize, and it's not our attitude either. On the other hand, in meeting a lot of the legislation in different stages of life – as a social worker, as a city commissioner, as a city councilman, as a government councilman – I have gradually become deeply puzzled by a superficiality that makes a number of rules and regulations almost live their own lives. In a number of situations, I've met people who almost pull their shoulders off it and thus introduce a kind of lawlessness state in relation to the code they're supposed to follow. And now I'm not talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often standard themes, I'm talking about experiences related to school and health. In fact, in some areas people sit and produce quite a lot of paper – adults, well-educated people exchange papers with each other – but eventually there is no working time left to make the productive effort to make. This is what makes me react and, together with others, promote the proposal. I would have liked to mark this. The replica probably has more character of a case information and a comment and less character of a question, but I think it is important to emphasise that it is these heavy social experiences that make it necessary to draw a limit now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e463	Does the State Council want Harlem to respond to the reply? - The chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e466	We have built up a comprehensive public sector in Norway. It has grown as new tasks and as a result of a more complex and complex society. It is essential that we have an efficient and resilient public sector in order to maintain the welfare state in the future. The government is now carrying out a broad review of the public sector, including: is critical of the division of labour between levels of administration in order to simplify the administrative apparatus and to eliminate duplication of functions between and within the three main levels of State, State and municipality. The government has also expressed its desire to clean up the surveillance and control jungle. It is an important measure to ensure that control activities are not taken over completely. Delegation must be based on trust, not distrust. The government is therefore also willing to move on to new ways and to assess new instruments. The majority of the Committee therefore assumes that through its renewal programme, the Government will focus on changing the system and legislation in order to streamline and simplify management. The proposal by the staging representatives Lars Sponheim, Gunnar Kvassheim, Odd Einar Dørum and Leif Helge Kongshaug to introduce a law on the time-limited validity of regulations, or a so-called ‘sunset law’, aims at ensuring the quality of the legislation so that the rules and regulations in force at all times are in force and reflect real needs. This intention is supported by the entire Committee. The Committee considers it important to have simplified and more transparent legislation. The overall regulatory framework today gives both the administration and citizens significant obligations. It is also important to note that the more detailed requirements are to a large extent not imposed by formal laws given by the Stortinget, but by legislation in the form of regulations based on law. It is therefore important that the Government carry out a continuous review and evaluation and evaluation of regulations. This is also the background to the fact that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a'sunset law'. The majority of the Committee cannot see that time-limiting rules necessarily make the legislation simpler and more transparent, as such a law could easily lead to more bureaucracy. The proposers also acknowledge that the proposal will, in isolation, impose new administrative burdens and that there is a difficult question of how long the period of validity should be. Nor does the majority of the Committee consider that a regulation should be valid for a period of 10 years if, after shorter working hours, it does not meet any need. Rather, the majority of the Committee considers that regulations need to be continuously evaluated and evaluated so that they are constantly up-to-date and meet real needs. The majority of the Committee imposes stricter requirements on the Government to review and simplify the overall regulatory framework than the Committee's minority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the representative Kleppe, since the majority of the Committee requires a continuous review of regulations. The minority of the Committee only requires a review every 10 years. I therefore believe that the proposals of the minority are not sufficient to ensure the most simple legislation possible. I recommend Stortinget to follow the position of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e495	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 489]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e503	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e510	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and Mr L. Stang, presented a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e592	It's going to be over the first and second terms first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e601	Paragraph 17b, third paragraph, contains a different proposal from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third and fourth subparagraphs of Section 17(b) shall be replaced by the following:The police security service shall prevent organised crime and may, on request, assist the other police and cooperative services.The Ministry may decide that the police security service shall be entrusted with a responsibility in matters relating to crimes against humanity, genocide and serious war crimes.’ Alternatively, the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Jørn L. Stang will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e660	The proposal from the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang to new § 17c no. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «New § 17 c nr. 4 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e677	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e684	Then there will be 18 voices for and 64 against the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative Jørn L. Stang. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e735	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e744	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e830	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e839	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e961	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e970	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1013	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1022	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1064	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1073	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1082	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1120	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1129	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1136	During the debate, Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Mr Kleppe, presented a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Agreements to the law on time-limited validity of the rules laid down by law.§ 1Rules granted under the law shall not be valid for more than 10 years from the date of adoption. If the regulation has not been re-adopted, the provisions shall lapse.§ 2The rules of procedure applicable to the adoption of a regulation shall also be applicable for the purposes of a new adoption of the regulation.§ 3For the rules adopted before 1 January 1997, the period of validity shall be extended by 2 years in relation to the time-frame laid down in Section 1, but the existing rules shall in any event remain in force until 1 July 2003.§ 4This law shall enter into force immediately.» Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee to the I and submitted by the Right, the Advance Party and the representative Vidar Kleppe. The Committee had advised Odelsting to take such a decision:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud2668e1183	The recommendation of the Committee for II shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
