ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e33	The called alternate of the Northern Provinces, the Bears Olsen, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from President of the United Kingdom Kirsti Kolle Grondahl on leave on 30 and 31 January to attend an official visit to Slovakia from the representative of Bjørn Hernæs on leave from 30 January to 1 February to attend a conference at Wilton Park in the United Kingdom from the representative Arne Lyngstad on leave on 31 January and 1 February to take part in a study visit to the Norwegian Maritime Commission/Norwegian Church in the foreign labour meeting in Thailand after an invitation On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the goods, for Buskerud County Gerd Johnsen, for Hedmark County Magnhild Byseth Olrud and for Nord-Trøndelag County Astri Wessel, are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Gerd Johnsen is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e83	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e88	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e93	Mr. Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e98	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal – which I believe will please the President – on additional rights to the Coast Guard in the current fiscal year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e103	The President does not know the term ‘fleet’. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e108	I will, on behalf of the representative John I. Alvheim and myself, make proposals to grant 1000 million. kr for the use of free treatment capacity in public and private hospitals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e126	During the introduction of Reform 94, all 16- to 19-year-olds were entitled to secondary education. Furthermore, the students were given the right to enter one of the three basic courses they had applied for. The rights of applicants are linked to the total courses offered by the county council and not to the individual school. Within the framework of the Stortinget, each county may organise the admission to secondary education as they wish. Today, 19 counties of the country differ in practice and experience. The choice of way of organising the intake by counties is justified by geographical, practical and political considerations. The majority of the Committee focuses on local self-government and does not want to be over-managed by the Storting as regards the organisation of consumption. The local democracy price is that we sometimes get decisions both in municipalities and county municipalities that we both like and don't like. As long as the responsibility for higher education lies today – and will remain – with the county municipalities, we believe that they should also be responsible for the intake. The future location of secondary education will be clarified when the Storting deals with the expected gross domestic product notification of the three levels of government and the allocation of their tasks. With this in mind, the Committee recommends that: ‘Document 8:17 [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e147	The majority of them write in their comments, in the pen of the case-rapporteur: ‘There are different experiences from those counties who practice free or restricted choice of schools.’ I wonder where you got this from. In the investigation by Stortinget’s Investigation Section, on the basis of Document No. The 8 proposal shows only the experience of two states, Rogaland and Westfold, which are both positive in terms of free school choice. As far as the other states are concerned, there is nothing in the study on how to evaluate the experience. So my question is, where did you get this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e157	Infringement by the investigation section of Stortinget is the basis for the document No. Eight proposals, highlights the representative. But, of course, with regard to the Committee's setting up, we have also considered more basic material than this document alone. Free school choice has been introduced in Oslo and other counties. I have received information from there that tells me that there are both positive and negative sides. But the most important thing in this case is that you focus on local self-government, and that the county municipality itself should decide the outcome. Either that becomes one or the other, local democracy is the focus here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e164	I noted with interest the rapporteur's strong emphasis on the need for local self-government as the decisive argument in this context. I find that a little difficult to understand, because the discussion about local self-government and the relationship between the level of government and the municipal and county authorities is really a completely different debate than what this is about. What this issue is about is the extent to which you want to enter into the right to secondary education, and then there is a question of users' rights vis-à-vis public administration, whether public administration is at one level or another. It is a little difficult to understand the logic that it is the State which, by decision in the Grand Duchy, grants the individual 16-19-year-old an unconditional right to secondary education, while it is the State which decides whether this right should also include the right to free choice of school. It would have been analogous if, as far as the right granted to hospital users in this country from 1 January of this year was concerned, it was up to the county council to decide whether or not to be free of hospital choice. I think this debate on the relationship between local self-government and central government is really a debate that has nothing to do with this matter at all, and I would like to hear the case-rapporteur explain why this should be defined as a debate on the relationship between state and county.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e173	I totally disagree with Inge Wage. If it is not precisely the specific issues that are going to show where the dividing lines go between local democracy and the Storting, I have to say that I am surprised. This debate on free choice of schools has been repeated in Akershu County, and it's starting to look a little bit like a county municipal debate, this. I believe that if you want local democracy, you must also dry up giving local authorities responsibility for something. When Reform 94 was implemented, emphasis was placed on the student's wish and that everyone should receive an offer. That was the setting within which Stortinget gave the county council when this reform was introduced. It's on the ground. Everyone gets an offer. It's also true today that 90 pst. may have his wish fulfilled. It's strange to me that this is going to change only a few weeks before you have to implement an intake, and before you have to have the big review of the three levels of administration and distribution of the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e180	Practical, political and independent local policy assessments have been promoted in the debate. We have also heard about Rogaland, Vestfold and Oslo, and I was actually pleased when the representative Lind took up the debates that have been in Akershu County Board on school. Because it becomes extremely strange to me, especially when we know that Akerhus, a relatively compact state with regard to distances, with many schools, actually through internal debate gets arrangements that “command” the students around the county, and gives them a total working day in Akershus, including travel in the fastest way, in 12 to 15 hours a day. Then I wonder if the local self-government might not show that it does not go far. I'd like to ask Rikke Lind to elaborate on this a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e185	There are probably many examples of things around municipalities and county municipalities we wouldn't like, especially Ursula Evje, since there are many county municipalities – most of them – that are run by a different party than her own. I don't decide how Akershus should do it, how Oslo should do it, and what's best there or there. What's best for Tromsø, or what's best for Akershus or Oslo, I don't feel competent to know anything about, because there's a lot of geography in here. The principle – and the committee’s recommendation – is that we do not go in and take a stand on these ways of organising. Our starting point and our proposal is to leave this entirely to the county councils themselves, and then there are probably many exciting political debates that can take place and will take place on this matter in the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e192	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e195	I record that the case rapporteur is very concerned about what is best for the states. For the Progress Party, what's important is what's best for the students. Otherwise, I also notice that the rapporteur referred to experience from, among other things. Oslo, who was supposed to be negative in this area. It may be that these investigations from Oslo in my large paper stack have gone missing, but I have not seen any investigations that show that there should be bad experience in Oslo. Nor have I seen anything in the remarks to the majority that refers to the experience of Oslo, which is then said to be bad in this area. It is possible that this is based on viewing that has been in the newspapers. It has emerged that this proposal by the Progress Party is based on an investigation by the Swedish Investigation Department, which has carried out a review of the entry rules in all our counties. As stated in Document No. The 8 proposal, there are significant differences from state to state. Some states have free choice, others have relatively strict rules, which have as their common denominator that they force students to go to the nearest school, at least as a general rule. With regard to the setting in this case, I am perhaps most disappointed with the centre parties, who often claim to be district friendly and busy not to get worse because of residence. In this case, it seems that these are obviously forgotten principles. Even I grew up at a time when there was free school choice in my state. I'm not going to stick under a chair that there were some schools that were having trouble getting in. But I don't think those who didn't come in got serious traumatic injuries. What did this lead to in practice? We who were students had greater freedom than those who are going into high school now. And then maybe we worked a little harder at the end of high school to get into the school we wanted most. I don't think either freedom or competition is harmful, but it obviously does the majority in this room. I do not think the majority has in any way explained why young people in one state should be treated differently from young people in another state in this area. We believe that young people should have the same rights wherever they live in the country, and not be given the county code, where the counties have made more or less reasonable demands for those who want to go to a school other than the one that the public has decided. Free choice of school should be a human right. At the end of the day, I want to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. With regard to the Right's proposal, there is a less precise version of the Progress Party's proposal, which it would be natural for us to give our subsidiary support, and I assume that the President can put up the vote so that this is reflected and we have the opportunity to vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e213	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to, and the request shall be complied with as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e216	With regard to the right of students to free selection at high school, I would also first point out that this is the responsibility of the county councils, and that there are therefore considerable variations between the individual counties. All students between the ages of 16 and 19 were entitled to secondary education through Reform 94, and they can make three choices regarding basic courses. It turns out that 90 pst. students receive their first choice in high school today. So it is the individual county that decides and measures the admission of the individual school. That's how we've decided. There are some states that have developed free school choices within their borders, as we have heard, Vestfold among others, but also dimensions across county boundaries based on the system that we have today, so that it is possible. I refer to the debate on new regions and the communication on the different levels of administration. Then we'll definitely get back to this problem. One problem is the skyscrapers. That is the economic consequences for the county in relation to the proposal that we are discussing. This issue is not unknown to the states today. With regard to the so-called small subjects, which not all counties offer, there is often cooperation between the counties today to offer courses to students across the county borders. The Christian People's Party therefore sees no need for any change in this in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e229	The majority say in their comments in the committee setting: ‘The majority consider that it is not appropriate to adopt legislative changes now that override the county municipalities in relation to the way in which the admission to secondary education is organised.’ You can emphasize the phrase a little differently, but I'll read it, when you underline this ‘now’, to the point that the reason why you don't want to change is that there is a ongoing reform of the relationship between the levels of government. If you interpret this kindly, you can read it so that you are open to take a stand for the content when this is done. This is, in my opinion, a logic that is not very convincing. Because I cannot understand that the ‘principle of free choice’, which the Right has formulated in its proposal, has something to do with the organisation of levels of government. Whatever the outcome of the debate on the future of the county municipality, one would have to say yes or no to this principle. Our proposal is in the usual way to ask the Government to investigate all the practical aspects of such a decision of principle and to come back to the Stortinge with a reasonable proposal on how best to solve these practical problems of organisation. It cannot be used as a justification for rejecting a decision that one will wait until the matter of the future of the county council is resolved. At my discretion, the fundamental question is transparent and straightforward. The question is quite simple: when the Stortinget has decided that everyone should have a right to secondary education, does Stortinget want this to be understood so that one should also have the greatest possible freedom for the individual to choose for oneself how to take out this right, which one prefers to go to? If you think it desirable – and I have a hard time realizing that there may be someone who does not consider it desirable – it is natural that the legislator asks the Government to investigate how best to organise the situation so that this right to free choice of school can be granted to all. Now I have recorded – and it was probably also in the case-rapporteur’s reference to the so-called mixed experience – that this is ideologically controversial, among other things. in Oslo, and that the Labour Party in Oslo e.g. have had a growing reluctance to the principle of free choice. It is a good point of view if you want it to be the political authorities who must at all times direct the students to where they are best suited to the authorities. What's a little harder to understand is that the middle parties, like, in Oslo has supported the principle of free choice of schools, in the setting up of this case will go against a proposal that the same principle should be applied. I actually have a little bit of a hard time understanding that, because it seems to me to remind me of an obvious inconsistency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e243	It is clear from the opinion that the Centre Party does not support the proposal of the Progress Party on the free choice of schools in secondary school. As you know, students today can choose the direction of study within three basic courses, but it is not such that they can choose and choose within a set of schools. Our country is so heterogeneous that introducing such a rule would have significant economic consequences. As you know, there is a great difference between Finnmark County and Oslo. In the view of the Centre Party, school offers must then be managed to a certain extent. The Centre Party considers it important to provide as flexible a range as possible within the framework provided in public budgets. The centre party is concerned that students should have a secondary school offer as close as possible to their place of residence. We also want the school owner, i.e. the county council, to plan his training services in an overall context. This implies an even distribution of professional services as far as possible and as sound as possible, based on both economic and professional considerations and on the needs of individual students and the needs of society. The county councils are responsible for making offers and distributing them as appropriate. In the ultimate sense, one with free choice of schools could be at risk of very high transport costs. As the economy is in most county municipalities, one cannot help but think about how a person uses the funds. In the view of the Centre Party, it is more important to invest money in the actual learning process and professional development than to spend it on transport costs. The fact that the party does not have this overall assessment in its proposal shows that the lot is not so absorbed by that dimension. It is a good thing to know, in addition to the fact that the party has not given particular priority to the local economy in any budgetary proceedings in this house. The centre party is also concerned with local self-government, and we trust that state politicians have the necessary competence and assessment skills in this area. I have not otherwise registered that there is some consistent demand from students to get so-called free school choices. I have noticed that some political youth organisations on the right-hand side run the case, but from students in general, through the student organisations, I have not noticed any claim. On the other hand, we've listened to what the student organisations say about school kissing. They want to have a school cloud system so flexible that the waiting time from school to bus leaves is minimal. But this too is a matter for local and regional politicians, to which we in the Grand Duchy should leave to them to decide. The free choice of schools across the country could also lead to more hybel residents. I have noticed information from the Follow-up Service that the majority of those who fall out of high school are hybel residents. It's also worth noting in this context. Otherwise, the Centre Party joins the setting, which indicates that it would be unfortunate if Size now applied to the changes as Document No. 8:17 sketches before finishing processing the task distribution selection settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e260	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e263	The party of progress has never denied that a free school choice scheme could lead to some minor increases in the cost of school kissing. We're aware of that, but we think it's a cheap price to pay to give it the opportunity of both freedom and competition that such a system will give. When you hear the article from the Center Party, you can almost interpret it there, that you actually want to ban free schooling in all the counties, and that the best thing would be if you had full coercion, where everyone was forced to go to the nearest school. The representative is also trying to turn this over to a debate on the priority of the school, and reiterates the claim that the Progress Party is negative to strengthening the municipal economy. We've previously rejected that a number of times in this room. Unlike the Center Party, we have chosen other solutions to strengthen the local economy. We strengthen it, among other things. through sub-prize funding in the health and school sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e272	It's interesting to hear the priorities of the Progress Party. So, as I see it, they're going to pay this price for free selection, even if it's going to affect other aspects of the county economy. Then I have to say that it was an incredibly innocuous claim from the representative Knudsen to say that the Senter party wants prohibition and full coercion. If you could read it out of my post, the representative must have good imagination. But it confirms one thing: there is a very great distance between the school policy of the Center Party and the ideology of the Advance Party. And it's okay to have it confirmed once again. I can only refer to the alternative budget proposals in order to confirm that there have not been very large increases in the local economy on the part of the Progress Party. I'm sure the numbers will prove that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e279	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e282	In 1994, 16- to 19-year-olds were entitled to secondary education. This right will be extended from 1 August this year to all, including adults. It was neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party that went to the fore to ensure that 16- to 19-year-olds or adults were entitled to secondary education. The law imposes the extension obligation on the county. It is the county municipality that will have an offer that will meet the need there, and it is the county municipality that will have to have enough places within the different directions and courses, so that the students – and also adults – who live there will have their right to do so. On this basis, the county makes an extension. They build schools, and they facilitate offers. So we know that over 90 pst. by young people their first wish is fulfilled, both in terms of courses — basic and secondary — and in terms of school places. Over 90 pst.Oh, my God! That means that we're actually pretty close to having a free choice system. The students get the offer they want. And I think that's good. If we're going to go about it so that students can choose across the county municipalities, it's clear that planning education offers is a problem for the county council, as they have responsibility for their students and their adults. And if others are going to come and crowd them out, it's clear that it's going to be difficult for a county council to plan educational services in its municipality. So I assume that what the Right Party and the Advance Party are looking for is so-called free school choices within a county municipality, that is what can be realized within a system where the responsibility for expansion lies with the county municipality. I think today's system works well, and it must also be right – as the Central Party stressed – to assess this for economic reasons. It is clear that if we get so-called free schooling, and that means that students start to apply across and in schools further away, this means increasing expenditure on county. And I don't see any reason for that. In addition, there is one more thing that is important when it comes to free choice — or rather the way to organise it, which the county councils generally put up for today — and that is that we get schools that have students with different backgrounds, different assumptions and different abilities and facilities, and that I think is a strength for most schools. I don't want schools that they so-called theoretically keenly apply to, and then other schools like those that are less theoretically good are referred to. And that's probably some of what we've seen trends in Oslo. If we start with the character requirements, we've had a development where some schools are more popular than others. Free choice of education — as defined — is also a matter of general education. We know that for the vast majority of professionals there are few offers in the individual counties. There are few applicants, and there are from one to two offers in each state – if there is one at all. This means that the students who want a specific offer are referred to this offer in the county. So I don't see any reason to change today's practice. It works very well when we look at how the students get fulfilled their wishes. And it seems that the county councils are doing a good job of expanding offers so that most people get their first wishes fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e297	I just want to confirm that the formulations of the majority represent a range of premises. I'll prepare for the left's premises. It is in our programme that we want the counties to be able to stand in for free schooling if our representatives want it. It has, among other things, happened in Oslo. It is a scheme that I myself have been involved in supporting and standing by. But it is also in this that we do not want national overrides of this, and definitely not in a situation where we are discussing where the schools should belong. Let me also add two reasonings that we have with us. There are parts of the country where, as a party, we want to be able to choose across state boundaries, but where our people have had the impression that then the states should be merged. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship between East-Agder and West-Agder, concrete Lillesand municipality and the neighbouring municipality of Kristiansand. We have seen that when it comes to crossing that boundary, it should also have consequences for the subdivision of the county. Then there's a debate in itself whether we're going to have a county municipality or not. There's a debate in itself whether we're going to have a regional organisation, what it's going to be like now. We want those things to lie on the table before we go on with the practical arrangement of how the free choice of school should be. We are also of the opinion that it must be allowed in parts of the country where one perceives this as problematic, to have positions other than what I have now expressed in principle, because Norway is complex. I'm assuming that the most important thing is that the students get their first choice fulfilled. I can give the case information that even in the Oslo free school system, it's actually out of the question. But it represents some challenges that my party is at least willing to take the consequences of in that municipality. On this basis, we are part of the majority. We do not now want to go further with how this principle is to be dealt with, and we are also voting on it. But I needed to present the premises that I have now presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e312	I asked for the word once more primarily because I became aware that because of the advanced age I forgot to take up the suggestion from the Right in the setting. It's done. Let me also add a slight reflection from the course of the debate. It was asserted with strength on the one hand that today's condition is perfect, however, that 90 pst. the first choice is met by the students, and as a result it is a marginal problem. On the other hand, it is claimed that if you want to do something for the small margin that doesn't get it, it will cause serious problems and heavy expenses to the county councils. The logic isn't quite convincing, but let go! I record that there is a category of people in Norway who are overrepresented in this Chamber, and there are current and former state politicians. It is the only category of people in this country who are very concerned about caring for the county and its tasks. Personally, I don’t think there can be any high-priority task in today’s Norway, and at least it can’t be a more high-priority task than trying to facilitate the provision of services to users with the best possible range of services. For users it is with respect to report the level of administration that is responsible. For users, it is important to have the greatest possible freedom of choice when accepting a service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e320	Sir. The salary has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. So 1 is over. [[Fooding, see page 1667]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e338	In high school today there are 15 basic courses and, I think, 88 secondary VK I courses. The vast majority of these VK I courses assume that, after completion of the course, the students will sign a learning contract and complete the course after two years of study. I would assume that the vast majority of VK I courses have so few applicants that it is only the largest county municipalities that have a student basis to establish or maintain offers in their own counties. Most of the courses – and now I am still talking about the VK I course – have to recruit from several counties. If we do a little thought experiment: the maximum number of students in the class, the group in the VK I is 15 students. It is provided for in the regulations of the Ministry. So it has to be up to 15 students who want an offer in a state, whether there will be enough students for a class. With 20 counties, this means that, on a national basis, there must be up to 300 students applying for a course, in order to provide an average student basis for the provision of services, i.e.: a class in a group in all counties. This is the mean. As a small comment: this shows that reducing the responsibility for secondary schools at municipal level is likely to work very poorly, because it is at least quite certain that in most municipalities there will not be a student basis for maintaining offers in so many courses. Out of 208 courses we have, there are only 38 courses that have more than one hundred apprentices. Hundreds of apprentices mean that there are on average five candidates in each state. What about the remaining 166 courses? So they have less than a hundred candidates, which is an average of less than five in each state. Here, it's important to clarify that more than one subject is recruiting from several VK1 courses, so it's not going to be completely parallel. But it shows that there will be a lot of subjects, a lot of VK1 courses, which have so few applicants that it would be difficult to maintain this. These figures, which I refer to, show – and these are common crafts and industry subjects – that there is a need to look at the boundaries of the county also for ordinary, common crafts and industrial subjects. If this is not done, there are especially students from counties with the smallest student base who will be the worst and who will have the worst offer, the fewest options. The large counties, such as Oslo and Akershus, will, for the vast majority of trades, have students for their own offers. It is therefore particularly important that the counties cooperate in order to ensure a good geographical distribution of offers to cover several counties. We can get into the situation that it is the small counties, who do not have enough students for their own offers, who have to send their students to other counties without being able to agree to plan what offers you should have across the county boundaries. The best option would therefore be to engage in voluntary cooperation between the counties where one is dependent on recruiting students across the county boundaries – this in order to ensure a proper geographical distribution of this type of offer. I therefore believe that it is important that the county councils commit themselves to each other in such a way that they guarantee that they will ensure so and so many students to an offer in a state that depends on cooperation with others. In addition to these more general crafts and industry, we have a special challenge in small and protective subjects. In order to ensure the provision of pupils throughout the country, special organisation is required for these subjects. The majority of the Stortinget lay in the Innst. S. No 180 for 1999-2000 strong leadership in the ministry's further work on these subjects, i.e. the subjects defined as small and protective. I expect the Department and the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with a briefing, either in a notice or in another appropriate way, on what has been done in relation to the leaders of the majority of the Stortinget entered the Innst. S. No 180 for 1999-2000. There we sketched a layout with several offices, geographically distributed throughout the country. Today, only the dry-layer counties, Akershus and Oslo and Sámi cultural subjects have their own offices, so it's urgent to do something about this. We see in these days that one is about to make an offer in Kongsberg, Tinius Olsen's school, about the watchmaking trade and the glass trade. These are small subjects that require and depend on recruitment from all over the country. In my opinion, it would be a tragedy – at least it would be very unfortunate – if these subjects were to be gone, and the few students who wanted this would have to travel abroad in order to get an offer within the watchmaking profession. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will contact the county councils and in this way contribute to securing these subjects that are about to be closed, and can be closed from the autumn if we do not get to cooperate. Public schools must also have the ability to capture needs and develop new offers, i.e. not a static school. If the public school does not have that ability, there are always new players who are ready to take over and develop such offers, and also commercialise such offers. It's a development that I'll consider very unfortunate. We have more examples of this. Especially in the field of sports, this offer has become more or less commercialised. Now the Stortinget has put a roof on the number of students to be admitted to these high-school gyms. In my opinion, it would be quite natural that these offers had been developed within the public high school, so that it would have been cheaper for the individual student at cost. I think we also got a better geographical distribution of that kind of offer. We see that secondary schools are trying to develop that kind of offer. We have an example of Rjukan where they are betting on an alpine offer. What is special about this offer is that someone now builds it up with a background in professional science. Otherwise, it's common for a person to take the lead in the general professions and then build on some sport and facilitate top sports activity. In Rjukan, there is a starting point in a professional profession and then developed an Alpine offer, which is now under pressure and can be abandoned. This, I think, is gross and unfortunate. Here the county municipalities should take joint responsibility by means of the state. Offers to cover several counties may be resolved in several ways. We can solve this by what we call nationwide offers, which means that county municipalities cooperate, county municipalities develop it themselves, or we can establish country lines. We have some examples that tradesmen have been threatened and that schools have been about to close down. And then the state has intervened – I would like to stress that it was in the previous magnification period – and set up a landline. I think the best way is that it's the county councils that are responsible, and that this happens through nationwide lines. That should be the main principle. The division of responsibility between the state and the county council I think is unfortunate. I strongly recommend that when we develop the offer across state borders, it should be primarily and mainly through nationwide offers. And it must be quite exceptional that the state intervenes and establishes a landline offer. I think it's important that we take this seriously, that we take these challenges, and that we are aware of what might happen if we don't do anything about it. I expect and hope that the Council of State will make contact with the county councils and get to work together so that we can ensure offers that are threatened and develop new offers that will be exciting in the public high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e368	I want to start by giving a brief description of the organisation of the offer of small subjects in higher education. It is established by the Training Act that the county municipalities are responsible for planning and expanding the higher education offer. The counties also cover the costs of secondary education. For the small subjects, the form of training, organisation and funding varies slightly from one subject to another. For some small trades, the industry has been involved in organising training as a special course. This means that no training is provided at school after completion of a basic course. Instead, training in an apprenticeship is given one year more than according to the main model of vocational training. The county council is responsible for providing apprenticeships and grants to the educational establishment. The municipalities cooperate on school provision in subjects where there is an applicant basis to establish only one or a few classes on a national basis. The counties have set up a body which assesses the subjects to be covered by the cooperation and the location of the offers. The county councils entrusted with such a task are responsible for the operation and financing of the offer, and undertake the admission of applicants from all over the country. The county councils are guaranteed payment from the students' families by means of an agreement signed by all county councils. A few subjects are country lines. The subjects covered, the schools to be offered in these subjects and their capacity are determined by the State. The State grants grants to the operation of these schools at specified rates. As a result of this being a county task, the transfers from the state are deducted in the framework of the transfers to the county municipalities. The county council, which operates each school, finances premises and undertakes the admission of applicants from all over the country. I believe it is important to have clear responsibilities within the training system. Then we get the most flexible solutions that take into account the needs of the applicants, the needs of the labour market and the efficient operation. It would be unfortunate to leave the number of applicants for a course to determine how to place the responsibility for the subject. The number of applicants may, as you know, change over time. In principle, I believe there are many arguments in favour of the wind-up of the system of landlines. This mechanism is a continuation from the pre-Reform 94 period and obscures the relationship of responsibility between the State and the county councils and the county councils. It contributes to the preservation of these offers in the form and extent that they were fixed several years ago because they are not subject to the overall planning and priority of the counties in the same way as the other secondary training courses. The county councils are charged for expenditure on the basis of objective criteria and not on the basis of the use of the offer. The nationwide offers are an exemplary way for the county council to work out its tasks jointly. The county councils, which themselves have the best overview of the search, jointly adapt the supply to demand. The financial burden of the offer is distributed between counties after use. As far as I am aware, the arrangement has worked well for the courses it covers. What is important is to ensure a continuous assessment of whether new courses should be included in the scheme. This assessment of the need for cooperation must, in the light of the clear division of labour, be carried out by the counties responsible for planning and financing offers in higher education. It will be part of the overall responsibility of the Ministry to monitor the proper functioning of this cooperation, so as to ensure that the country's overall needs for competence are met as best as possible. The framework conditions for both the economy, the structure of supply and the sharing of responsibilities have been set up by the Ministry in such a way as to allow the counties the flexibility needed to adapt the supply to changing local, regional and national needs. However, I would be very reluctant to intervene in decisions on individual offers made by individual county councils or joint county councils. With this I have clarified my views on the responsibility for municipal cooperation on small subjects. From these points of view and from the way the county councils discharge their responsibilities, I see no need to take new initiatives now, but will continue to work closely with the county councils on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e391	I thank you for the answer – or the comment. In general, we agree that the responsibility for this type of offer should lie with the county, and that national lines should be developed, not national ones. The Council of State and I agree on that main line in the future. Nor do I have any problem agreeing with the Council of State that the few lines of land we have can be assessed and possibly converted into nationwide lines, so that the county that currently has a national line turns them into a nationwide line through cooperation with other county municipalities that today send students to this country line. I'm still a little disappointed, because I'm not sure if the Council of State is taking over the situation we're in, and the need to get cooperation and initiate cooperation so that this works. I also have no problem saying that the way the financial settlement is done is an OK way and a right way. But it is clear that in this system there may be some obstacles to cooperation, because at the moment you buy a student's place and make an agreement with another county municipality, there are some costs of this for the county. So the costs themselves can then help put obstacles in the way that this works flexibly and in the best possible way. I would probably strongly encourage the Council of State not only to follow, not only to record what is happening, but also to participate in the debate with the county councils. Because it is unfortunate when offers, for example an alpymnas on Rjukan based on professional studies, may be closed because the county municipalities have no agreement, because the county municipalities around Telemark do not use this offer and are not willing to market it in their catalogues, etc. It's unfortunate if the watchmaker's offer in Kongsberg, which is the only thing we have in the country, is gone because we don't have good enough deals, and because the state isn't there to make agreements. So my call to the state council is that he here takes responsibility, not only registers, not only sees what is happening, but also goes into the processes with the county councils, not to tell them how to do it, but to push processes that are good, so that we can develop offers that are good. The Storting has previously said that we want to develop more of what we have today. In the evaluation of reform 94, we were clear that it would be easier to set up separate courses than it had been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e407	I would like to express recognition for the commitment of the representative of Rikham in this matter, and if the Council of State had not been aware of it before, he has at least got the chance to do so through several rounds with the representative of Rikham in this area – and that's good. I record that both the interpellant and I are of the opinion that the distribution of responsibilities is clear, and that the county councils have the responsibility and would like to solve it together with nationwide offers, is a good way to work. However, this does not prevent us from having a national involvement in relation to the offer and participating in that discussion – not only following developments, but also having opinions about it. We have e.g. responsibilities for the overall structure of the trade unions in Norway and, in this context, also have a review of the structure of the trade unions to see what it will look like in the future. And that commitment should also apply to those subjects that are so small that the county councils alone are unable to offer them. But if, on the other hand, we were to start on a national team to go into individual matters, for example. an alpine offer in a particular municipality, I think we had quickly got into a disaster. I think that, when we have a clear division of responsibilities, we should also be consistent in this way when we practice our policies. All too often we see that we are very principleal and clear when we distribute responsibility, but immediately something happens locally that we really don't like, and that we disagree with, we are fast on the track and want to do something about it. The previous debate we had could be an example in that way. I am pleased that we agree on the division of responsibilities – that we have a responsibility to participate in the debate, but that the decision-making responsibility itself lies with the county councils – but of course we should also help the county councils develop further and get even better cooperation between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e418	When Stortinget evaluated Reform 94 in the autumn of 1999, Stortinget concluded that the main model should be fixed, but that it had to be opened up to a greater degree of uniqueness. Today, there are a number of courses that recruit under 100 elephants on a national basis. These are important subjects of long cultural history, which it is important to take care of. These small disciplines are either defined and organised as nationwide lines or as country lines. Responsibility is shared by the state in charge of the country lines and the county municipalities in charge of services defined as national subjects. This is in many ways an artificial and problematic distinction, not least in terms of coordinating a whole range of services. There is also little enthusiasm in the county councils for the landline system, as such a scheme has the effect of attracting county councils with landlines for elephants from their own counties. I also see a problem with the guest student decision-making system. As a matter of principle, the county councils should have total responsibility for continuing training, and we also stated this during the evaluation of reform 94. Supply and lines to cover two or more counties, or to be nation-wide, should primarily be offered as cooperation between counties and then as nation-wide lines. Then it will be the task and responsibility of the state to stimulate the state to such cooperation, so that one can best carry out important small-scale studies. There are some processes running in these days, including a review of the structure of further training. So it's important not to get tied up in any fixed position until you've solved a lot of things. The second moment is, as the Council of State also stressed and pointed out, being careful to intervene in decisions on individual offers taken by a county or jointly by several county municipalities. On the other hand, it is important to stimulate cooperation, not least in order to take responsibility for preserving these small subjects. It is an important and correct interpellation that the representative of Rikvam is promoting, and it is important to discuss these questions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e429	In many ways, this debate is a continuation of the debate we had earlier today, on free choice of schools within the individual counties, and the revelation that here there are extreme variations between the states. It should in itself be enough to be careful to extend this very important responsibility to the county councils because the state does not have to play such a concrete role in this. Requam is right in one thing, and it is the duty of the state to ensure the competence of small and protective subjects for the future. I don't think he really believes that it's the individual state of randomly elected politicians that's going to do this. Therefore, the interpellation is good enough, but leaving responsibility to a level of government on the sod, is questionable policy – at least if we think of competence. The party of progress is of the opinion that only the state has this responsibility, it can only be the state, and it is the state. Therefore, who carries out the work of setting up and implementing the supply of small and protective subjects is as irrelevant as the discussion that is raging for and against competitive outsourcing. It is and must be the user who is to be at the center, not the producer of the service, only the service has a qualitative content that is the best we can deliver. Students, as well as maintaining and continuing valuable and rare competences, are important both for society, for students and for businesses. The Progress Party will therefore point out that we believe that there was a positive amount of what the Council of State put forward here. We think it was very nice to hear that he clarified this responsibility. We don't think it was as pleasant when he was simply willing to give it away to more random levels. We are of the opinion that the responsibility for training lies with the state. This is traditionally historically correct. We can go a long way back in time, and Norway has always been based on the principle of public education. It is a State responsibility, the State shall finance it, the State shall ensure quality, and the State shall ensure that all those in need of training have the offer available, whether it is primary, secondary or tertiary. It is a responsibility the Progress Party will ensure that the State has to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e442	I will make a few brief comments in this interpellation debate. The Christian People's Party also agrees that the responsibility for secondary schools lies with the states, and we see no need to change it as today's situation is. What becomes the future of the county council, we'll have to assess in that light, but in a later debate. So the responsibility for high school lies with the counties. Land-covered lines are important for small trades and offers that cover protective craft traditions. It is clear that we have a political responsibility to ensure that these offers exist. If we're going to do that, there has to be cooperation between the states. My impression is that the states have established a dialogue and have the opportunity for cooperation. This cooperation must continue. The counties must identify the needs and agree on a division of labour, and the ministry must follow it and stimulate a reasonable coverage of the offer. I think maybe the Council of State is signaling that he's a little retiring here, and I don't think that benefits these little subjects. In fact, there's a need for active monitoring here. However, the main problem may be the marketing of the offer — marketing across the country in terms of nationwide offers and, to a large extent, in terms of landlines. For a few applicants, they must be aware of the existence of the offer. Here, of course, the industries have a responsibility, but the county authorities also have a responsibility to provide the market for an offer in other counties. In this context, it is important that common procedures and application procedures be established both in relation to marketing and in relation to consumption. I have seen that the guest settlement between the counties is a problem. I guess that's an arrangement we have to live with. But those who think only of the county economy will easily focus on their own county offering in such a perspective. In fact, the Christian People's Party has a rather pragmatic relationship with national lines. We are open to consider this in relation to particularly resource-intensive lines and offers, and it must then be assessed on a case-by-case basis. However, if small trades are also built up, the Ministry may have to consider converting them into national lines, not to deprive the counties of responsibility, but to ensure the offer and to press forward cooperation between the counties. Finally, I register that the Progress Party now wants to make advanced training a state responsibility. Here, of course, the Progress Party is continuing the school-centralism that we have had in recent decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e459	I don't think anyone disagrees that some important subjects are so small that they have to cover several states. But what I feel is that the interpellant actually wants to do with the interpellation is to replace the landline system in the long term by a system under county responsibility. In any case, it is difficult to see that one can significantly go further in a clarification than one came up during the treatment of the experience of Reform 94. In the committee setting that was treated for approx. a year and a half ago, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party asked for a special remark that the division of responsibilities between state and state that we have today is unfortunate and that responsibility for supply and lines to cover two or more states, or be nation-wide, should lie primarily with the State. Only in very special cases shall the country enter the country by landline. The treatment of the 2001 Community economic proposal in the spring of 2000 gave a slightly different picture. Then the Workers' Party and SV went in to keep track of the country lines, but today both the interpellant Reikvam and the State Council are walking back on old paths. This doesn't fit in with the great, square model, and what the representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen said in an article earlier in the debate is quite typical. He said that there is no special enthusiasm in the county councils for the national liner system. No, but it also has no intention of fascination with the county councils. On the other hand, both business and very many of the students who get these offers are excited. That must be the most important thing. For its part, the right has for a long time argued that it is important that the state still has responsibility for the landlines, even if we obviously do not have anything against solutions between the states. However, experience seems to suggest that national liner systems will provide much more security from year to year. It is a national responsibility to care for the future, both for small subjects and for particularly expensive supplies. It's hard to see any reasonable reason to change the system today, according to the Right. In any case, there is not a sufficient reason for the arrangement of landlines to break with the ordinary distribution of responsibilities between state and state. As a conclusion, I feel that this is the bureaucracy and the left-hand side kicks back at the fact that after a time, at the wishes of business and elephants, the great majority of people have been able to climb the landlines, despite several proposals to the contrary. I hope and believe that, after today's debate, we will still be able to maintain this system, not for the benefit of the county councils, but for the benefit of the business community and the individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e472	In higher education, there are a number of subjects that are so small that they need to be offered as a nationwide offer because there are not enough applicants to start classes in all counties. This applies in particular to the protection of craftsmanship. One could rightly say that reform 94 did not take sufficient account of this aspect. In his own country, for example, he disappeared. Lafting and rolling as a subject. In Norway, we are in a situation where we do not have sufficient competence in several similar crafts. Injury to buildings following the flood in the East in a few years' time revealed that Norway lacked skilled labour in this area. They had to resort to Sweden to get the necessary expertise. Another example is that the Riksantikvaren had to start its own education in lafting — or in order to get real carpenters, to put it that way — to implement the Medieval project. This is too bad, and this is the school's responsibility. It is the responsibility of the county councils to provide services in the field of secondary education. Unfortunately, there is such a tight economic framework that this often overshadows other important goals, namely to take care of old, traditional subjects that represent our cultural heritage and identity. The centre party will stress that the county municipality itself is to define the needs of the region, but we realise that this is not enough to provide small, protective subjects. Politicians must then raise their eyes and look across the borders to ensure that the specific competences mentioned here are developed. Let me do a couple of examples. It is natural for coastal states to provide training in the wooden boat construction sector, while for example: Upland and the other domestic states need to acquire competence in logging, given the fact that Uppland has one fifth of all peaced wooden buildings in the country. There has been a lot of discussion about the so-called country lines, i.e. offers paid directly by the State. I believe that during the period around the introduction of Reform 94, there was an excessively square attitude on the part of the Ministry when it came to facilitating offers that could be described as country lines. The central party agrees that there should be no strong growth in landlines, but we will not be entirely opposed to the fact that there may be some subjects that need to be able to go under this designation. However, it is desirable that the nationwide lines, which are to be financed by guest accommodation, be developed further in order to meet the need for small and protective subjects. One unfortunately does not only have good experience with these settlements, as I know the situation. The states are arguing between themselves, and thus the demand for the state to take over, that is to say, to establish national lines. There is no desirable development. It is important that the department is vigilant in this matter and engages in good dialogue with the school owners, i.e. the county councils, so that these offers are maintained and developed primarily for the benefit of society and students. Finally, I allow myself to ask a question that must be said to be closely related to this. How far has the Ministry come in its assessment of higher education for subjects in the field of building protection? I wonder if the Council of State can give an answer to that today, as it has been over a year since the working group presented its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e492	The Councils clarified the division of responsibilities. I believe that sometimes the Council of State must follow the Batman principle: have a good overview of the country and dive down like Batman from the cloud when there is a need for practical action. The reason why I say this is that I know that his predecessor, the councillor Lilletun, had the impression that he had to follow along, and that he among other things. Take the initiative when it came to folk music. If we go into the situation we now have, there are at least some of us who, through different information and different sources, have become concerned about the timber construction industry. We had a case in the budget for this year for boat construction. Through my colleague Ranveig Frøiland, I have been told how important it is. It is an example of a government council sticking to the division of responsibilities. But if – as the representative Lyngstad was in – point (a): marketing becomes too weak, and point (b): you get the classic Norwegian administrative blackjack game when it comes to settling, bad can lead to worse – to say it that way. I perceive that this is one of the purposes of the representative, Rekovam, when he promotes his interpellation: he wants the focus to be sufficient, but not that the Council of State should override it. This is about whether crafts and traditions, which we need, which are part of our cultural heritage, should be preserved, or whether we should lose it. Not least the line in Norheimsund has made me aware of how little is needed to lose it. The same applies to a number of dedicated posts, including: by Marit Tingelstad on buildings that are subject to damage. Not many people can do this, but it would be a shame if we didn't take care of those who are – and in the country as a whole, we have room and space for it. I have no opinion other than the Council of State regarding liability. But a government council often has the opportunity to follow, and administration offers many opportunities to give small signals. I want to work boldly and freshly in the administration, and not slowly and slowly – that is what I say from experience. The current Council of State has shown such abilities when he wants to, and I suppose he should want it in this area. That's why I choose to express myself like this. This is going to be my support for what I see as the purpose of the Rikvam's interpellation here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e503	I understand that the Progress Party and Ursula Evje have no particular confidence in randomly elected state politicians. I assume that the party management has less control over the nomination processes in the states than they have in the case of the Storting, and that that may be why they have no particular confidence in randomly elected state politicians. I would like to stress strongly that our democracy presupposes that it happens by chance. It's also quite random how this is compounded, without it taking away the ability to act rationally and correctly. It is also a gross misunderstanding of the Progress Party if they perceive this as an extension of the debate we had in the previous case. Here it is about establishing one, maybe two, three offers in the country, so that there are offers for those students who want that kind of training. This has nothing — nothing at all — to do with free choice of schools for the general field of study. This is about defending offers that are about to disappear, and also creating new offers that we want, but which are probably not enough recruitment to create in all states. Then I want to say that Petter Løvik obviously has a capacity for conspiracy thinking if he thinks that this is a storm race against the landlines. It's not at all. We have established some country lines, and I don't need to change that system. I think it would ideally have been an advantage with nationwide lines, and that there was cooperation between county councils in this way, but I don't need to try to remove the country lines that we have today. I probably don't have the same picture that Petter Løvik has of how well these lines work; at least the views that come to me don't make them work very well – it can be because of the state's hunger feeding of them. But they're struggling, just like much of the rest of the education system. I also agree with the Council of State when he says that we can in principle agree – and yet we are stuck in a small offer, as I mentioned, an alpine offer. My goal was not to intervene, or try to get the Council of State to intervene. What is my goal is for the Council of State, in cooperation with the county councils, to point to such offers that are about to die, which we do not want to die, but which it is desirable from a country's perspective to take care of. The goal is that the signal comes to the county councils, so that the county councils together can take care of it, develop it and make agreements, so that this does not go away for us. I would like to remind you once again of the watchmaker training at Kongsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e514	There's not much to add to all of this debate. I record that it is basically only the Progress Party that has expressed a dissenting view of the more principled division of responsibilities in this area in this interpellation debate. It is good that such a broad majority agrees on the division of responsibilities and on the roles to be played by the different levels of government in the field of secondary education. I believe that both the representative Rikvam and the representative Dørum were summarizing in a good way. The representative Dørum said that it might be possible to have a focus without overdoing it in this area. And that's it. There are, of course, many ways of stimulating county councils to participate in a debate on participation and influence the design of the higher offer without going across the division of responsibilities put there. It is quite right, as some have stressed, that this is also a matter of national interests. It's about our culture, it's about taking care of traditions and a story that we have to take joint responsibility for. The responsibility – and the opportunity we have to follow – I intend to assume, without therefore breaking with the responsibilities that have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e525	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e531	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e538	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Inge Wage on behalf of Right The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, and then alternately between the Settings and Proposal No. 2, from the right. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all Norwegian youth, from the autumn of 2001, are entitled to free schooling in secondary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e567	You will now be asked an alternative between the options and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure the principle of free schooling for high school students.’ The President has understood that the Advance Party wants to support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e583	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-25.ana.ud114e592	There is no record available.
