ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e36	The representative Erna Solberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Leif Lund from 14 March onwards and until further notice from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson on leave on 14 and 15 March to attend the project meeting under the auspices of the World Bank in Washington These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Olaf Gedrem, there is an application for a waiver to meet under the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson's leave on 14 and 15 March for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Hordaland County Kari Manger and for Rogaland County Svein Helgesen, are invited to meet during the leave period.3. Kari Manger is elected to the Lamentation for the time she meets the representative of Leif Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e76	Kari Manger and Svein Helgesen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e81	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e86	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e91	Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are unanimously elected as presidents of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e106	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e112	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose to extend the role of patient representatives to cover also primary health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e117	The representative of Inge Wohnung will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e120	On behalf of the representatives Jan Petersen, Petter Løvik and myself, I allow myself to put forward proposals to reintroduce support for the partial coverage of school money for students in foreign or international secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e125	The representative of May Britt Vihovde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e128	On behalf of Lars Sponheim, Odd Einar Dørum, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a crisis programme against the overdose epidemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e133	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e136	I will be presented with a proposal on behalf of Odd Roger Enoxen and myself to implement measures to improve food safety and animal and public health in Norway's trade agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e162	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tore Thin State Council Karita Bekkemelm Orheim State Council Olav Akselsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - Thank you. We will then start with the first main questions from the representative, Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e181	I have a question for the Minister of Health. We still have unresolved health and hospital tasks. It's a question of both money and organisation. The hospitals can obviously be operated better, but I don't think the ownership of them is the most important thing. For patients, it does not matter whether it is a state or a state that owns it if you do not receive the treatment you are entitled to. The proposal for hospitals to become state-owned enterprises is being driven at a rapid pace, with shorter consultation deadlines and a short time for the Stortinget. I appreciate a powerful state council, but it must not be confused with an excessive urgency. Now we see that important user groups have not been heard. We see that politicians around the country who are basically in favour of state hospitals are opposed to the health minister's proposals. It is important that the reform be properly and properly addressed, otherwise the adverse effects may be significant. In spite of this, will the government run the reform through the coming year anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e192	We see a reorganization of the hospital sector as very important in order to achieve the necessary improvements in the sector, as the representative, Mr Bondevik, also points out, should be possible. It is true that a state acquisition alone is not entirely decisive in such a context, but it is, as I have considered, a prerequisite for implementing the organisational changes that are deemed necessary. That is why we want to make a proposal, where a draft has been consulted by a large number of consultation bodies in Norway. In the work on this proposal, it has been expressed from the point of view of all teams that, if such a reform is to be implemented, it will be important for all parties to implement it quickly. It has therefore also been suggested from the outset that implementation should take place during the current year. The schedule we are now working on, where we now have a comprehensive consultation round that was concluded a week or so ago, states that we should be able to promote a ousting proposition for the Storting before Easter, and thus in time for the Storting to be invited to take decisions in the current session. If so, I believe it would be entirely appropriate to implement the changes themselves by the end of 2001/2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e199	As I said, it is important to have proper, sound treatment, otherwise the adverse effects can be significant. I think it's a great opportunity for improvement even if hospitals don't get state-owned. The ministry has received over 700 hearing opinions, as far as I know, and has a very short time to treat them properly. The biggest thing, if this proposition comes on April 6th, will get very short time on such a big thing. It is important that there is no prestige in dates, so this becomes urgent rather than action. I think the local anchoring can easily be weakened by the model proposed. There is a danger of remote control, there is a danger of powdering political responsibility for hospital policy, and it is not just good experience from other countries, such as the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Now, today in the Evening Post, the Council of State has announced a change in one of the paragraphs of the draft law. Does the Council of State already see the need for changes to other paragraphs and principles in the draft law he has presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e208	As I said, it is a very comprehensive consultation process that has been carried out. It was also stressed at the time of the transmission of the consultation document that a real consultation process is taking place — of course it is. There is also a need to be prepared to make changes on the basis of the forthcoming consultation opinions in relation to the draft sent out. It is not a fully-fledged draft, for which the consultation round is to be regarded as a sand detection, it is a real consultation process. It follows that the entire draft will be reviewed and tested to the best possible extent in the preparation of the proposal. I believe that this is a matter of fully sound procedure. There has been no achievement in this. Of course, I am not going to comment on Stortinget's treatment, but from the department and from my side it will be put up for the very proper handling of all the hearing opinions received.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e213	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e216	It is not so amazing that the representative Bondevik from the Christian People's Party is asking for both suspension and other things in this matter. The Christian People's Party has expressed its scepticism for the state acquisition. My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: Is it not important to run this pace that it has been set here, precisely because you are afraid that a vacuum can occur internally in the organisation if this goes well out of time? We also see that in several organisations there is a resistance to the reform, where it is working towards this very thing. Isn't it just such things that make it important to get this very quickly in place, so that the organisation can start working within the framework of the new system, and that the organisation can be properly transplanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e223	As I mentioned earlier, in the preparation of this matter, I have been advised, from the point of view of all the teams – regardless of what fundamental attitudes they might have towards such a reform – to implement such a conversion, it is very important that it is implemented quickly. No party can see that such an extensive process goes beyond several years, with the ambiguities and uncertainties it entails for current owners, for administration, for employees and not least for the population, who are entitled to clarity and cleanliness in the organisation of an area as important as the hospital sector. So I am also of the opinion that such a process should be carried out as quickly as possible, within the limits of proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e229	Annelise Höegh – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e232	It was good to hear that the Minister of Health has not intended to go beyond what is necessary. And I have also noticed that it is those who are most critical of the Minister of Health now trying to do, who will have longer time, while they have presented a counter-message that was available almost the day after the Minister of Health's own proposal was made. So what they need so much time for, that's what I'm wondering. However, what I wonder about even more is what the Minister of Health means by today's statements in the evening post. For what is a hospital? I guess it's a place where you get treatment and care. It does not matter to patients whether the food comes from outside or whether the laboratory samples are sent to private laboratories and X-ray institutes. And I see that, too, that the main spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, Gunhild Eye, says they're going to keep going. So if these hospitals are to be free from political day-to-day interference in the operation – that is what I have understood the Minister for Health, and that is good – how can he then refuse them to find out on their own which organisation they would otherwise have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e239	I have heard media entries today of the type: the Minister of Health will not, however, go into the privatisation of hospitals. These are formulations that have something in common with the well-known question: Have you stopped beating your wife? The ratio is that the Minister of Health has never proposed anything in the direction of a comprehensive privatisation of public hospitals or privatisation of public hospitals at all. This is a proposal for the State to take over and own the 100 pst public hospitals. – organise them in undertakings to which the State has to own 100 pst. No arrangements for privatisation can be considered. Then there is a proposal for a paragraph that regulates the cooperation of health businesses with others. If it is that it has been perceived as an opportunity for the privatisation of hospitals, then what I want to change is so that such misunderstandings should not occur. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e246	The president hasn't stopped beating the club. Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e256	I note that the Council of State has taken on what we call the Hernes reform line: implement the reform at such a great pace that most people do not perceive what is happening, and then calm down when the power is used. For my part and on behalf of the Left, however, I'm concerned about some of the users, the patients, and I'm particularly concerned about what's related to the psychiatry. We know that Norwegian psychiatry has worn out in difficult conditions for many years. We know that over the last few years, based on the government I myself put in, with broad support in Stortinget, it has finally been invested to help them. Is the Council of State absolutely convinced that, absolutely sure that this patient group will come safely, improved, out after his reforms, that he can almost issue a guarantee? For the test of reform, most often the most vulnerable, how the weakest, are protected – not how the strongest ensure themselves, not how the professionals ensure themselves, not how professional organisations ensure themselves, but how patients who grapple with their lives are guaranteed. For this reason, my challenge to the Council of State is: Are the Councils prepared to provide such a guarantee on behalf of the psychiatry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e263	Firstly, there is absolutely no such thing as a tactic to implement such a comprehensive reform at such a rapid pace that no one discovers what is about to happen. That is not why we have sent a draft consultation to more than 760 agencies and later also followed up with further discussions with those who initially did not receive the draft hearing. It is precisely to ensure that all stakeholders are properly aware of what is proposed and that they are also given the opportunity to comment. It has happened that some who should have had it consulted have not received it, and we have contact and ongoing cooperation with them in order for their views to come up. As regards the provision of guarantees as to the effectiveness of such reforms, a prudent approach shall be taken. But I myself am convinced that it is a reform that will benefit all user groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e270	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e273	The central feature of the proposal for hospital reform is not that the state should take over but that hospitals should be released. The Health Minister has called for professional governance, both in the five health regions and in the various hospital units. And what's professional about these governments is that they're no longer going to have elected representatives. With such a clear degree of exemption, where the public's ability to control the hospital business seems almost absent, I would ask the Minister of Health: how does he think through this type of model to prevent a significant degree of centralisation of the hospital system, where hospitals such as the Church, the Sandness Lake, the Tynset or Stensby – just to mention some examples – will eventually be terminated because the rulers are simply talking about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e280	Firstly, I do not think the concept of exemption is to be found in the proposal sent to the hearing. Nor do I believe that a proposal that states should take over and own the hospitals 100 pst. means some ‘dispensation’ in the sense that hospitals, like any other establishment, can be seen as ‘freed’ from their owner. Whether it's a 100 pst. owner or another owner, I believe that «exemption» from ownership represents a rather meaningless way of thinking. Through an organisation in enterprises, we want to ensure a much clearer division of responsibilities and roles between owning, governing and managing hospitals. It is a very important discharge of responsibilities, which, with the smooth operation and exercise of ownership in the sector, will improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e287	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e290	It seems as if the Minister of Health is happy on the move and likes to drive outside the marked lanes. We have seen that it has triggered “race” in the trade movement, not least in the LO, in the Municipal Association and in the Nursing Association. I think the purpose of the reformer is for patients to get better health care. Then it is strange that only 2 out of 60 patient organisations have received the consultation note. No one in mental health or related organisations has been given the opportunity to give an opinion. Some of the last ones I mentioned have now been allowed to give their opinion within one week. Does the Minister for Health consider this to be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e298	Firstly, I have to say – without going into the individual hearing opinions, which naturally have critical comments on the proposal sent out – that the hearing opinions do not greatly frustrate the pace set in this matter. On the contrary, I also receive support through them for this to be implemented, and it should be aimed at implementing it in the current year. As far as the selection of hearing bodies is concerned, I must first say that in the case of user institutions, the consultation note has been given to their umbrella organisations – as in previous cases that have been sent to the hearing – but not to all sub-organisations of these umbrella organisations. However, we have met with them afterwards, when we have discovered that the umbrella organisations have not invited their members to give their opinions, to rectify this, and we have also had special meetings with someone in the field of mental health protection, who was unable to make a statement in the event of a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e305	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e308	First, I would like to ask the Minister of Health once again whether he believes that the statement by the representative Nesvik is valid, where it is said that resistance is now being built up in different organisations and fractions that make this happen quickly. Does the Minister for Health agree that this reform is one of the main reasons for rapid implementation? In that case, there's an interesting democratic question. Then to the implementation time. It is clear that there are arguments to make this acquisition quickly, but it should have been much better investigated in advance. There are less reforms and less issues than this big case that have earned off, for example. public investigations. Does not the Minister of Health think that there should have been a better impact assessment of e.g. health aspects, coordination and cooperation issues, including: of the ‘linking’ to the first line service in our healthcare system, and that this is the main reason for the very criticism now that it is too fast? Then areas like psychiatry, child protection, intoxication and dentistry would also have been in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e315	As I have said several times, there are no tactical assessments behind the pace set in this case. It is not at all the case that the pace has been chosen on the basis of allegedly developing within different organisations the resistance to doing so. This rate was set and presented already at the time of the launch of the draft consultation, on the basis of the idea that the reform will be implemented during the current year. As far as the investigation issue is concerned, there are probably fewer cases that have been investigated to a greater extent — perhaps even more so than has been required. I am of the opinion that this issue has been more than adequately addressed over the years worked on different options for the organisation of the hospital sector. We're also based on these investigations in what's being promoted here, and we haven't found this to be necessary for further investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e322	Are Nose – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e325	The only thing that seems quite clear in this matter is that the Minister of Health does not want popular political influence on political decisions such as those of the United Nations. has to do with cooperation and functional distribution between hospitals. I notice that the Council of State makes it clear that the consultation process is going to be real. I do not know if there are 300 or 700 hearing opinions that the department has about. One month to investigate, while completing a legislative proposal – which the Council of State has not pointed out – and clarify everything that is unclear. Does a hospital privatisation open, or does one not? What should be the subject of this reform? Does it include psychiatry, does it include the drug field? And what does one think about employment? Does the Council of State really consider this arrangement to be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e332	Once again, I would like to claim that the procedure and procedure in this case are perfectly sound. In this case, we follow the rules and practices laid down for dealing with matters to be promoted by Stortinget, and I believe, as I said, that they are fully sound. I do not agree that a proposal which implies that hospitals should be 100 pst. owned by the State and under the overall responsibility of a Minister for Health, is without popular control. I guess it's not least in this room that it's unnecessary to stress that they're under popular control right now. It is fully possible to review the hearing opinions that have now been delivered and to take them into account in the submission coming to the Stortinget. Otherwise, I do not think I should go into a debate with the Stortinget on a matter which has not yet been promoted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e341	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e344	My question also goes to the Minister of Health. In recent times, strong counterclaims against hospital reform and state hospital companies have emerged without me seeing that the Government or the Minister of Health have corrected the disinformation and the direct false claims about the new reform of state enterprises that has emerged. It is of particular importance that disinformation and incorrect information on the reform berejected from the authoritative team as soon as possible. I also find it regrettable that some health professionals and Norwegian Municipal Associations, based on special interests, disinform and vanry the hospital reform. The Party has given a positive signal that the Party will substantially support the proposal for hospital reform as outlined in the draft consultation. If the government now reduces the free position of subsidiaries and, for example, closes the cooperation with other secondary functions, the Progress Party must reconsider its support for the reform. Will the Minister of Health comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e353	I have also recorded that in the debate on the draft consultation that we have sent out, a number of obvious misunderstandings have arisen, conscious or unconscious. It is well on the basis of the circumstances in which such a wide-ranging case is brought to the fore, and therefore there will also be a debate. It is not always as easy to refute what can be experienced as misunderstandings and what the representative Alvheim calls disinformation. In addition, during a consultation period, there may be some hesitation in participating in an open debate with the hearing bodies invited to make their views known. But it will be an opportunity in what we are now going to present to the Stortinget, to clear up what we experience as misunderstandings in this matter. It will never be a question of giving in to pressure from someone in such a process. But it is not the same as not taking into account views that come, which can help clear up misunderstandings, help clarify things that may have been unclear in a draft, and help prevent the opening up of interpretations that are not the basis of either the intention or the letter of the bill. So that kind of adaptations I think it's natural to do when you have an open consultation process, without that being too much pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e362	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. The RV politician, in consultation with Gilbert and others, has made a so-called counter-communication to the proposal of state hospital companies that are quite eye-catching and frightening, and it represents a low level of argumentation. It is claimed that after the reform, hospitals will only treat the income-generating patients and that chroniclers and elderly sick people will be deprived. I hope the Health Minister will not be influenced by this kind of counterclaim, but that the hospital proposal will be available in April as announced earlier. Will the Minister of Health here and now in this Chamber confirm that the landfill proposal on state hospitalization will be available to the Stortinget for treatment at the beginning of April?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e370	I have also read this so-called counter-communication, and so far also been in debate with some of the authors. I don't want to go into the other than saying that it's probably an article in the debate it is too, and I'll treat it as the debate that it's meant to be. Otherwise, I can confirm that the government is promoting the public procurement of the specialist health service as planned on 6 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e380	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. I have registered that the Workers' Party is now preparing the election campaign on the basis of promises of babysitting, babysitting, etc. – commitments from the 1990s that have not yet been met. That's okay. It is better to bring the old stuff with you than to issue new guarantees you cannot keep. But my question is really what is the reason why the Workers' Party has seen it as necessary in this period and in the current year to weaken the family's finances, while now ensuring that it will focus on children and children's families. In fact, in the course of the two years the Labour Party has been in charge of the budget, whether they have presented it for themselves or entered into a settlement, they have made proposals to weaken the family's family's rights, for example. two children in a couple of years have received NOK 1000 less to travel with, while under-regulating the state aid to kindergartens in such a way that municipalities actually have to increase the price of their parents, contrary to what has been promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e389	First of all, babysitting. It has been that we have had a very strong kindergarten development in Norway in the 1980s and 1990s. What happened when we got the Bondevik administration a few years ago was that kindergarten expansion was strongly reversed. What happened when Bondevik came to power and joined his budget with Right-wing support was just that one had built only one fifth of the number of new kindergartens that one did in 1997. We all know why. But it was a wild policy from the right in Stortinget to have different types of solutions for families with young children than kindergartens. The Labour Party has always been concerned that we should have an offensive bet on kindergartens, and we are now putting on the final stage, which in fact also the Right has been with and agreed to, namely that we should reach a fully developed sector during 2003. There is no doubt that there will be uncertainty about the figures, depending on how the price of this offer will develop. What I've said at that point is that we need to continuously evaluate and make new estimates and forecasts, so that we get the opportunity to add a rate of expansion in the next few years that also captures any price reduction. In the case of the Workers' Party's statement on the weakening of the families of children, that is not true. In fact, the Labour Party for the first time in many years in the budget for this year added a full price compensation, among other things. to kindergartens. We also introduced an increase in the state aid, which neither Bondevik nor Right have agreed to. I also know that it is a nice theme to say that the Workers' Party is governed on the basis of Bondevik's nursery report. What happened during the processing of this notification was that the Workers' Party invested in increasing the State grant up to 50 pst. But then finally, I want to say that there is no doubt that the Labour Party's challenge is to pursue an economic policy that does not make interest rising. Then we will be able to experience a very dramatic situation for many families with young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e400	I should like to thank you for the answer, but at the same time draw attention to the fact that interest rates have risen, so the Council of State is not up-to-date. So those expenses are also going to be borne by families with children. Moreover, it is a fact that the last two budgetary settlements in the Grand Duchy have not adjusted the child's pension. There are several hundred dollars lost for a family of children. It is also a fact that the state aid to kindergartens has not followed the cost development of kindergartens. There is a point for kindergartens that are reasonably densely populated by staff, that compensation is linked to compensation of wages and not to compensation of prices. Only in this is there several hundred dollars, which means that the municipalities either have to put more into the pot themselves or have to take more of the parents. Unfortunately, the experience now suggests that 70 pst. of the municipalities are in the process of or planning to increase the price of their parents, and that is a lost consequence of the policies of the majority. I think the Workers' Party can take responsibility for that and accept it. They have not only had one hand on the steering wheel at this year's budget, but actually had the steering wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e407	Now it's like there was a very broad majority in Stortinget when we dealt with kindergarten. There was a representative of the Right in the Committee, acting on a majority vote. One of the means we want to go into is just to put in place a municipal development obligation and a general law enforcement in line with the school leisure system. But we realize that the increased state share of kindergartens has not resulted in a reduction in the price of parents in all the municipalities of the country. It's a dilemma, and it should be a dilemma for more than the Workers' Party. One of the things we're working on is that we're just going to be able to add a race that makes the parental payment really go down when the state goes in with more money. So it is completely wrong to say that the Workers' Party has not added more money to the kindergarten. As I said, it was the first time in very many years that such a sum was put into the budget that we managed this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e412	There will be follow-up questions – May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e415	It was just to be missing that the Labour Party didn't put any more money into the budget, because the Storting had all joined an escalating plan. Now, the State Council must stop shooting at the Bondevik administration. There was a further expansion of the kindergarten sector also during the Bondevik administration. For 2000, we added up to 6,000 new kindergartens. It wasn't good enough for the Workers' Party, they said, but when they came into opposition and proposed 6,000 new kindergartens for the current year, it was a huge effort. So here, there's a difference in the tactics of the Workers' Party. We also proposed and had a stimulus for the construction of new kindergartens. It was not proposed by the Labour Party in the current year's budget. My question to the Council of State is: when one of the budgets that we were also in last year sees that there is a sharp increase in kindergarten rates, will the Labour Party, if they have a sincere commitment to kindergarten, already in the revised national budget bring more money? We now see that seven out of ten municipalities announce an increase in parental pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e424	I think we have to stick to the facts first, and the fact is that kindergarten expansion stopped almost completely under the Bondevik government. We have statistics of that. In the first year of the Bondevik government, only one fifth of the number of sites built in 1997. But leave it alone. We got a deal between the Workers' Party and the Centre where we actually increased the operating grant by 100 million. NOK and added 2000 new kindergartens. I have to say that I think it is positive that we now have a competition in Stortingen about who is best in kindergarten policy. That hasn't been the situation before. The situation in the past has been a competition for who could make the most cash transfer to the young children’s parents. What's the situation now, is that we know that what young children's parents want today is babysitting. There can be no doubt that both the history of the Workers' Party is investing in kindergartens, and what we are now going to include in the budget for 2002, will prove that we are a kindergarten party for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e431	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e434	It may sound as if the Minister of the Family suffers from a financial illusion, that the more money the public spouse gets into the kindergartens, the cheaper they get. The price of a kindergarten is approximately NOK 100000 regardless of who pays the nursery. Then I also record that the Minister for Family Affairs in a way refutes claims by the representative Foss that the conditions for families with children have deteriorated in recent years, and in particular under the regime of the Workers' Party. Does not the Minister for the Family also see that there are other areas where families are struggling, where, for example, the Minister for Family Affairs in some municipalities introduce property taxes, increase municipal taxes and increase housing taxes, and that these are also burdens on families with children? Will not the Minister for Family Affairs also focus on these problems, rather than just focusing attention on one group of families, i.e. those who have children under school age? And then I'd like to ask who's going to pay this party? [[(President clubs):]] In addition to four hours of compulsory kindergarten, the Workers' Party wishes a double leave [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e444	The President shall make Mr. Sandberg notes that when the club marks, the vocabulary should stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e447	First, I want to say that there is no doubt that the Workers' Party is concerned with the general situation of the small children's families. And there is no doubt that there are many different factors that make the families of young children struggling with their finances. We believe that bringing down the nursery price will be a very important incentive. On the question of funding, I have to say that there is something the Labour Party has not used to be accused of, so it is that we are irresponsible in economic policy. On the contrary, we have repeatedly heard from this speaker that we are far too restrained from using taxpayers' money. We think in a way that it becomes a bit comical – if I can say so – that Per Sandberg, who represents the Progress Party, is now suddenly becoming very concerned about and concerned about the Norwegian economy and how we are going to finance, when we heard that Carl I. Hagen said last night on TV that we would like to spend more oil money. [[President clubs]] But I can promise you one thing. We are presenting a project with a responsibility and with a discovery we can stand upright on. [[(President clubs):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e456	The President recalls that time constraints also apply to state councils. Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e461	It is strange to read about the promises made by Halvorsbøle about lower kindergarten prices, about free core time, while the statistics of the Central Statistical Office show that there has been a sharp increase in kindergarten prices. Before Christmas, the council said that the nursery prices, the parental payment, would go down with the scheme presented by the Workers' Party. I would like to stress – and that is a fact that the Council of State cannot recover – that the Right added 275 million. kr extra in government grants to kindergartens next year, especially to help private kindergartens. What's going to be the problem is that the Workers' Party has laws and laws on kindergartens, but as long as they don't have control of public funding, as long as the municipalities don't take their responsibility, especially for the private kindergartens, it doesn't help much what the Council of State promises. I have a question about what the Prime Minister said, namely that he would have earmarked grants. Does this mean that the Workers' Party now supports the Right Model with user-driven financing, where the money is to go directly to the kindergarten and not via the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e470	We've actually followed up on what we've promised in the case of kindergartens. We know that we haven't achieved the goal of full child care coverage in 2000, because of a scheme that wasn't the Workers' Party, but we're dedicated to putting a race that makes us get into goal. And it's quite right, as the representative of Greece says, that parental payments are increasing in many municipalities. I have also not said that this does not result in correctness. Today, to put this sector in place, we are, since we have municipal autonomy, depending on municipalities that want to build kindergartens. But what the government has said, and what the prime minister has said, is that we now want to go in and look at stronger instruments, so that we ensure that the money the state gives goes to kindergartens, and that the municipality has to take its share. And it's a fact that when we dealt with the state budget, and when we dealt with the message, the Right or Center parties were not willing to use stronger instruments than we have now. But I take note of what the representative says, and then we get hope that we get a majority of the proposals we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e479	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e482	SV is very pleased that the Workers' Party will now have a major offensive for both cheaper and more kindergartens. That's a good SV policy. But the Municipal Report has done a survey that shows that in 70 p.m. of municipalities, prices in the last year have not fallen, but increased, despite more money. And the local economy is falling short of many tasks and too tight a framework. Therefore, binding, clear agreements between the State and the municipalities are needed on how this is to be paid. There is now a system of consultations between KS and the Government, which will be the new steps to be taken in order to obtain funding from, among others. cheaper kindergartens in place, because that's how parents should see some results from what we're doing. Does the Government intend to enter into such binding agreements with the municipalities through the consultation mechanism, so that the objectives we set ourselves become a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e491	We are working on this, we have consultations with, among other things, KS and PBL, and we're concerned that we're now going to come up with clear and good solutions at this point so that we just achieve the goal we've set. Of course, it is a fact that the municipal economy is significant, but what has also been a reality in some municipalities up to now is that the parental payment has increased by up to 15 p.p., without the cost indicators having increased accordingly. We know that pay is the largest cost item for many kindergartens, but pay has not increased by 15 pst. from one year to another. Therefore, many parents experience a great frustration by the fact that the parental payment can increase so much. These are the things we're working on, and we'll get to Stortinget with a concrete package and a solution to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e496	Marit Tingelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e499	It is very positive that there has been competition between the parties as to who has the best child and growth policy. I have even noticed that the Prime Minister will now call himself Minister of Kindergarten, so I realize that Councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim will also have competition for the title. Let me still get to the serious thing. We believe that it is very positive that there are proposals from the Government to increase efforts in the kindergarten sector – of course we do. But we think it's a bit of a reverse order that a promise of free babysitting before you have full babysitting, because full babysitting is a prerequisite for the freedom of choice that the Center Party wants young children's parents to have. And then we also have to have a price level, as many people have been involved in, that parents can accept, so that one can actually take advantage of the kindergarten offer. Then I would like to ask: What is the Government's plan to follow up the Storting's decision on this with equal treatment? The local economy is very central. I also expect answers to be given as to whether there is anything in the revised national budget – something that was not answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e508	First of all, I want to say that we are very concerned that we should get a good level of equal treatment between private and municipal kindergartens. We have to put that in place. We know that the private nursery stands for approx. 40 pst. of the total offer. But it's not right that we start at the wrong end. There are two running parallel here: we're now going into the final phase to get to the fully developed sector, while at the same time wanting to reduce the parental payment. And there's no doubt that there'll be uncertainty about the numbers. I am not hiding that, as I said, it is entirely dependent on the price we are able to give on this offer. But as I said, we are prepared to put up an offensive bet in kindergartens. I also believe that the Storting will notice when we present the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e518	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e521	My question goes to the Minister of Health. It concerns Schengen and new challenges for the Minister of Health. The background is a look-up in the Berlingske Official Journal of 12 March, where new rules for medical certificates are mentioned. There is a requirement to be able to present certificates of medicine for their own use for those who want to bring their pills with them when they cross the border of Denmark – a certificate for each medicine, price per person. at least NOK 300, valid for 30 days. It sounds like an adventure or an April joke. It's not that. The Danish government is now in the process of looking at how to deal with the enormous reactions that have come about. What arrangements does the Norwegian Minister for Health have? Should, for example: Norwegian pensioners travelling from Kristiansand to Hirtshals pay 300 kroner per year. certificate and valid for 30 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e528	I am sorry that I have not read the Berlingske Official Journal for 12 March. Nor do I otherwise have any up-to-date information on how to deal with the developments in the Schengen Agreement that this is about. It is also a work which initially falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I am aware that this is about the development of a regulatory framework that will require the certification of prescriptions for medicines if you travel with medicines like, among other things. contains narcotic substances. And we are well in the process of clarifying the possible consequences of this on the rules that we might implement in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e535	The Health Minister's answer is alarming. Norway is a member of the Schengen Agreement, which will be introduced from 25 March. I do not expect the Minister of Health to read every Danish newspaper, but I expect the Norwegian government to comply with the rules that Norway is expected to introduce. The Norwegian government now found a marked commitment to the EU. Is it really the case that the Norwegian government does not follow when it comes to the counter- performances that are now being debated in different EU countries? So this is about the possibility for individuals to cross a boundary with drugs for their own consumption. There is already talk in Denmark about A- and B-travelers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e542	It is not the case that the Norwegian Government is not involved in the development of Schengen cooperation. But I just have to regret again that I cannot at this stage provide precise information on how, if necessary, we will implement the changes to the contract agency that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e547	The President has some doubts if we're going any further with this -- Are Nose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e550	This EU legislation is incomprehensible, and it shows that imagination in the EU is now extending beyond cucumber rumbling and condom size. But I think I have a prescription for the Minister of Health. I would suggest that if this has to apply in Norway, it only applies to prescription drugs, and then take a prescription with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e557	I take note of the proposals made by Mr Are Næss.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e562	The president thinks it's safest to switch to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e565	Then I want to switch back to the important issue of kindergartens and would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Kindergartens are good for children. It's the most important common venue for children's development. In order to ensure equal opportunities for this common arena, prices need to be reduced, as has been discussed earlier today. Therefore we welcome in SV the promises from Halvorsbøle about free core time and lower parental pay jubilee. This is a long way from what SV has proposed several times. But if this is to become something more than beautiful election vows, it must take action. It's easy to do something about it, and the government has the tools. I will therefore challenge the Council of State to say how she intends to make it possible to introduce free core time, and how quickly she can imagine that this can become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e572	First I want to say that I fully agree with SV that kindergartens are good for children. With regard to the promises from Halvorsbøle, it is not that there has now suddenly been a revolution in the Workers' Party overnight. In fact, we are the ones who have been in charge of the strong orphanage development and the promise we have had in this sector over the last few years. But I can promise the representative one thing, and that's that we'll present a budget that captures our promises. I want to say that the Storting must also be aware that we are directing this sector through it will contribute to the annual government budgets. I also expect that we will have to be able to set up such a run in the coming time, and that we cannot now start with individual cases every two weeks depending on how this sector develops. What we're doing is following up two things. As I said, we follow up on what Stortinget has said and asked for in the announcement: to get a municipal development obligation and a general law enforcement, and in addition to that, the Prime Minister has said that we want to look at different models to reduce the parental payment. Then we assess both a free core time and a maximum tariff. We're doing a job where we're going into this and we're looking at the different ways of capturing the goals that we have in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e580	I thank you for your answer. Now it was also such that when the government put out the budget last, it was promised a drastic decrease in parental pay. So it hasn't happened. For us, it is important to see that free core time must be associated with the maximum price of parental payment, so that those who want more time do not have to pay for such a reform in the form of increased payment. SV has now submitted a proposal on both free core time and maximum parental pay. We believe that the state's commitment to this must also be in relation to the local economy, it is the state that has to pay such a commitment. I would like to hear if the Council of State will support the proposal we have put forward on free core time and maximum prices, which the Swedes can afford to introduce without oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e589	I would like to refer to the answer I just gave, and also to what the Prime Minister has said in various interviews. We come back with a total bet on kindergartens. Something especially besides that, I don't think it's right to say now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e594	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e597	The council said there had been no revolution in the Workers' Party in the case of kindergartens. But I hope the Council of State can now confirm that given that the Labour Party's budgetary options had been taken into account in the last four years, it would not have been a penny less in parental payments in kindergartens for those who today have children in kindergartens. That is the result of the budgetary commitments that the Workers' Party has either promoted in total opposition or has been involved in compromises. So the second question I have to the Council of State: it is that we have had a discussion about kindergartens, cash support and other measures for families with children over several years. Prior to the previous election campaign, there was one theme the Workers' Party promised as an alternative to cash support, and it was actually extended maternity leave. Yes, in fact, they went around and promised – both the then women’s political leader and then Prime Minister Jagland – that for a year, they would be extra on maternity leave spread over ten years. Where has it been lifted? And what credibility do the baby haillifts have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e604	It's like we've had an intention of a third to distribute the nursery expenses. It has been until Stortinget treated the nursery service that the state would be responsible for 40 p.m., the municipalities for 30 p.m. and the parents for 30 pst. This has been nothing but good intentions. We know that a lot of the municipalities have reduced their share, so that they can increase the parental payment and have used it as a source of income. Of course, it's a dilemma, and it's going to be a bigger dilemma when the state increases its subsidies and gives more money in State aid. And when we see that we don't reach the goal we have, of course, the government will go a new round on it. But it is important to say that the instruments we have today have been widely agreed on in the Stortinget. Now I understand that the opposition is impatient and wants stronger instruments, and I can reassure the representative that we are working on these things and will put it forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e609	The President has a feeling that there are now more follow-up questions than kindergartens, but he still takes the chance. Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e614	Let me immediately state that the Progress Party is of course not concerned about spending more money on the families of children. The truth is that we spent NOK 1.2 billion more than the Labour Party on the current year's budget, including on the family budget. What concerns the undersigned, and what concerns many families around, is when the Workers' Party makes promises where only this with mandatory core time in the kindergartens will cost between NOK 3 and 5 billion, when they want to extend the maternity leave, which may cost NOK 3 to 4 billion, and when they have already said through the kindergarten announcement that they will spend over DKK 1 billion. Then it is time to ask where the Workers' Party wants to take the funds from to finance these election promises. It is clear that when the Prime Minister, at the same time as he throws out these election campaigns, makes it clear that he does not want to increase taxes and taxes and also does not want to spend more money on the oil fund, I think it is timely and proper for the Government to give a signal on how to fund their big election promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e621	First, I want to say, yes, this is going to cost. There will be expensive reforms. However, I would like to say back that, in relation to the proposal that the Progress Party has in its family policy, which the representative Sandberg has repeatedly called for from this pulpit, to pay women so that they can be at home, the cash support becomes peanuts, and then we have to add completely different amounts in order to capture what the Advance Party is concerned about. So with regard to who is the most expensive in terms of families with children, it's actually asked if it's not the Progress Party that leads with the proposal to give all women the opportunity to go back to the kitchen bench, and that they should have a government salary of about. $100,000 a year for that. But as far as funding is concerned, I would like to say what I have said before: the Labour Party has a tradition of providing responsible budgets, with a balance both on the expenditure side and on the income side. We'll also do that this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e628	Last follow-up questions – May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e631	The council said that Stortinget was not willing to go in for a stronger tool when we treated the kindergarten message. What kind of tool did the Labour Party propose in the treatment of the kindergarten message that Stortinget would not agree with? I can't think of a single proposal. The Kindergarten Communication states that the municipality should have an obligation to provide childcare space and that the laws will come into force from 2004. Now it turns out that kindergartens in some municipalities do not add up to full kindergarten coverage – we can read about it in newspapers – before that time. Another thing that was in the kindergarten message that did not get membership from the Workers' Party was a legal obligation to enter into cooperation agreements with the private kindergartens. So my question to the Government and the Council of State is: What kind of tool has the Labour Party proposed that they have not received consent to?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e636	I have repeatedly said that there has been a very broad consensus in Stortinget in the treatment of the nursery service. There was broad support for the two instruments that the representative himself now had in mind. I've been sitting in this chair for exactly a year now, and I'm following this sector with argus eyes. And we know that the Prime Minister has said that we want to look at more targeted measures to achieve the goal in relation to what we have promised to the families of young children. I'm not saying that there's a new situation, we know that the parental payment has increased gradually, but we want to go into this and get a boost on this sector, so that we can achieve this goal. There was a broad consensus in Stortinget a few months ago when we dealt with this message – we actually agreed very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e644	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e649	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 2 by Mr Ansgar Gabrielsen to the Minister for Food and Trade has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative of Kjellaug Nakkim to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e665	This question, from Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e668	‘After several years of increased openness in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there has been a marked change since the government change. It was refused access to 20 pst last year. more matters in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs than in the previous year. What is the background for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs increasing the scope of secrecy and not prioritizing the work of greater transparency, as the previous government did?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e675	I will certainly reject the fact that since the change of government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strengthened its practice in the field of public health practice. The Ministry practises more publicity and provides transparency to all documents where possible. The department’s refusal rate over the past five to six years has ranged from 27,5 to 32. The discount rate of 32 in 2000 — calculated on the basis of the electronic orders — was marginally higher than the previous year and barely 2 percentage points higher than the average for the last five to six years. The reason why there may be a difference between years is that the number of rejections will vary according to the sensitivity of the cases requested, and this will in turn vary according to the issues on the foreign policy agenda. In the last year it has, among other things, many queries related to Norway’s candidacy to the UN Security Council — documents that, in the interests of other countries, it has not been possible to release. In such cases, there may easily be a contradiction between our desire for maximum transparency and the rules and tradition of the country or organisation in question. This issue is then also considered in an inter-ministerial sample of the Public Health Act. An internal working group has also been set up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to examine the issue. Furthermore, a special position has been created in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as coordinator of public affairs, with responsibilities among others. for internal training in the practice of public access law and for the most efficient management of transparency requests. Finally, let me stress that, in line with other departments, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants maximum transparency in administration. The greatest possible degree of transparency is a prerequisite for creating the necessary trust and confidence in the tasks we perform on behalf of the community. Of course, we can get even better in this area, and we'll try to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e688	It is worrying that the Council of State considers an increase in the rate of rejection from 27 to 32 pst. in one year as a marginal change. For all those who have followed developments in this area in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is a significant change. After several years of decreasing the number of cases that were kept secret, there was an increase of 20 pst. last year. It should give rise to concern and active policies in the ministry that stress this from day to day. And my appeal is that the department builds routines that follow this closely, which make it easier to say yes to matters. One of the elements that I would then recommend is a weather-open poster that describes how one should proceed to strive for greater transparency, and my question is whether one will initiate concrete action in the light of this marked change in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e693	I have explained the policy pursued in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, in all the other departments, and which is about to have a living policy of transparency in relation to both public and public awareness. But I must say that it is also worrying if the representative is not able to see that the rate of rejection from year to year depends on the political issues on the agenda. That's what's crucial, not the total amount of business. And it is quite obvious that in a year when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been very active in relation to a number of major foreign policy issues, the rate of rejection is likely to be higher because the interest of the media is significantly greater in these areas. But I can assure you, as I explained in the answer, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very concerned with respecting both its obligations and its policy of maximum transparency in administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e698	In addition, I would like to stress that the Bondevik government has also been in place in the last few years, and this was preparatory work with a view to having Norway accommodated in the Security Council. Despite this, the discount rate went down. I am standing here with an overview of a number of matters from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that are not public, and a lot of them have nothing to do with the area that the Council of State is using as a reason/apologies to explain that there has been an increase in secrecy. My appeal to the Council of State is that he does not take this as a natural development because there are many difficult issues to deal with, but he takes this as a setback that is offensively met with more measures than those reported by the Council of State that have not worked according to the purpose of the year that has passed. This was a priority matter for the Bondevik government; it should also be for the new government. And then the goal must be that in those departments, including in the Department of the Council of State that is now responding, which has nothing to do with the Security Council, but where there was an increase in secrecy last year, action plans that are much more offensive than those that are being explained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e705	I must strongly distance myself from the fact that this government has a different policy and does not have as much focus on government publicity as the previous government had.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e720	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e726	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In many cases it has been found that public buildings are not adequately maintained. This applies, inter alia, to: many State-owned buildings which are almost collapsed before they receive the necessary maintenance. As an example of this, mention is made of the Castle and the University's civil engineering. Today’s practice that many public buildings do not receive necessary maintenance until it is imperative is a very costly practice. Do state establishments have clear instructions on how to maintain their buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e735	The representative points to a very comprehensive, interesting and challenging task for central government. Today, the state owns approx. Six million. m2 property stock, and of which it manages and maintains State Building 2 million. m2. Thus, a significant part is managed and maintained by the users themselves, e.g. universities, hospitals, the Riksantikvaren, the Coastal Agency – for mentioning someone. To the representative Sandberg’s question, I can initially say that there is no general common instructions on how government properties should be managed or maintained. As far as I know, this is also the case in counties and municipalities. However, there is no doubt that deferred or inadequate maintenance is expensive maintenance. This applies to all, both in the public and private sectors. In my view, therefore, the only way to ensure good and continuous maintenance is to distinguish between the user and the administrator. This is introduced as a principle in the business for which I am responsible, State Building, and should, in my view, be introduced as a fundamental principle in other public property management. In this respect, I can mention that State Building budgets for its properties each year on average of approx. NOK 135 per year. m2 for maintenance, which is otherwise in line with industry team recommendations. Furthermore, Statsbyggen maintains a fairly detailed maintenance statistics for its properties, and the maintenance effort is relatively detailed in the annual budget proposals for Stortinget. In 1993, as the Stortinget knows, a separate house rental scheme with State-owned buildings was introduced in a central role. However, the scheme does not cover more than approx. one third of all state property. The main purpose of the scheme is through cost-effective rentals to make the costs of using premises visible and to make a clear distinction between the primary activity of the establishment in question and the construction operations of Staatsbyggen. Both parts are important as mentioned in order to ensure in a professional way the values contained in the property stock, as maintenance for most agencies can easily become a secondary task. By transferring management and operations to those who are best placed, the departments are given new opportunities for better performance of their main tasks. It costs millions of kroner to not prioritize ongoing maintenance of buildings and structures. Whether there is a need or an opportunity to introduce a separate instruction on the maintenance of the country's buildings is something I would like to look into. However, even more important, I think it is to get the user’s understanding that a targeted follow-up to maintenance is absolutely essential to ensure the value of government and public properties. In this context, for example: State - building schemes serve as a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e754	I thank you for the answer, as it was very nice to get, in that Council of State says that the Government also looks at the problem in the same way as the Progress Party. As was also the case with the Council of State, these buildings relate to both state, municipal and county ownership; for example: very many school buildings in Norway are poorly maintained. State-owned buildings are under-maintened, resulting in high costs when the restoration is first carried out. Through the media, we have now known for a number of years that many buildings almost coincide before money is granted for maintenance – and then there are funds. The University of Oslo is an example. The rehabilitation of the Castle shows that maintenance was started too late, and that it was then very expensive. Other important buildings that have suffered the same fate include: Stiftsgården in Trondheim and Bygdø Kongsgård. In recent times, it has also become known that royal visitors from abroad during the Crown Prince's wedding will have to brush the muzzle of their clothes when the wedding in Oslo Cathedral is over. So my question is, does the Council see any possibility of correcting this, for example. through other forms of ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e765	As I said in my answer, I think it's the organisation of ownership, the distinction between the role as manager and the role that uses, that's important. It is quite clear that when an establishment receives a certain amount of money to go both to operations and to very important welfare measures, while at the same time being responsible for the maintenance of buildings, it becomes easy to prioritise welfare schemes there and then in front of the maintenance of the buildings. I think it's just by distinguishing what you're responsible for, between the administration itself and the user role, that we can get a good result on the ongoing maintenance. Of course, we're going to work on that further when we look at how the state manages its total property.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e772	The answer I get here, I think, is very positive. I look forward to the State Council and the Government continuing to work on the matter and perhaps coming back to Stortinget with it. Because, as the Council of State is in, real estate is an important part of our national wealth, which must be managed properly and preferably so that it does not lose its value. It is very regrettable that many of our older buildings, of national value, fall heavily without dealing with the problems. I have pointed out different buildings that are in such a situation. And it's embarrassing that a nation like Norway with the economy we have can't appear to be wealthy in that area as well. The castle has been given a thorough facelift, but it is important to ensure that we do not get into such a situation in the future. It is important to learn from the mistakes we have made and that good procedures must be ensured in the future. Therefore, my final question is: will the Council of State work to introduce an instruction to the public sector buildings in order to ensure better maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e779	As I said in my first answer, this is one of the things I want to view as a possible tool. However, I think the most crucial tool is that we get the divorced user and administrator role. The situation is very special for the Kinghouse buildings. That's what we're going to do in the future, and we're going to go to Stortinget with it. But I can mention many other state cultural-historical buildings that have been voted upon over the years, precisely because they have not separated the user and administrator roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e789	This question, from the representative of Kjellaug Nakkim to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e792	I will be asked the following questions to the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The current law allows dental technicians to import dental works and place them on the market without the need to add VAT. In the Amending Act of 21 December 2000 on VAT § 5, first paragraph, No. 1 (b) it is clarified that only ‘self-made dental products’ shall apply. It seems that legislative changes will have a number of distorting effects. Does this harmonize with Article 13 of the EU Directive and with EU competition clauses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e801	The issue addressed in this issue is of a fiscal nature and has been addressed several times by the Ministry of Finance, including: by the monitoring body of the EEA Agreement ESA. I'll first explain what's current right. Value added tax shall not be calculated on services provided by dentists and dental technicians. These services are equivalent to other health services. Where dentists or dental technicians also place goods on the market from their activities, this turnover is also excluded. The rule on the movement of goods from these establishments is a derogation from the general rule that VAT should be calculated for all sales in Norway. The exemption implies that dental practitioners and dental technicians do not have the right to deduct from their activities acquisitions. Other establishments dealing with dental work are excluded from the exemption and are therefore required to calculate the turnover charge. VAT shall also be calculated on imports of goods. However, when introducing dental products, the Ministry of Finance has agreed, on the basis of Section 70, that the charging can be limited to the material part. Thus, the value of the dental work itself may be excluded from the calculation basis for VAT on importation. This exemption applies only to the place where the dentist or dental technician introduces the product and, in the opinion of the Department, contributes to a non-taxable treatment of the introduction and domestic marketing of dental products. For these groups, the exemption in our assessment is not contrary to the competition rules of the EEA Agreement. ESA did not find any basis for going further on the matter. Moreover, the Sixth EU VAT Directive has not been made part of the EEA Agreement. The amendments adopted to the VAT Act of 1 July 2001 on dental products are intended to continue the legislation in force in this field. However, on the basis of a recent opinion on the placing on the market of dental products, the Ministry will further consider the whole of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e816	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It seems that you are now giving a certain opening as you say that you want to reconsider the whole case complex. And that's good, because here there could be quite a discrimination between imported goods and non-imported goods. In fact, the bill has made it clear that self-produced goods should be exempt. And the way you understand the law per. today, VAT will have to be applied and that charge will be transferred directly to the patient. But actually we have said that these services should be free of charge. So I understand that you want to reconsider this and think about making any legislative amendment. And then I have to ask the Council of State, when will you be able to take this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e825	I can't answer that. But I can say so much that at this point it is not possible to pre-determine what the closer review will give as a result. It is quite clear that current practice does not conflict with the competition rules of the EEA Agreement. But when we consider these issues, of course, we should have consumers' interests in mind first and foremost. That is what consumers are going to pay and to prevent different distortions of competition in the market that must be crucial to the future rules of law we are going to have in this area, not whether we are within or outside the EU and EEA Agreement provisions and competition rules. That's why I just have to say once again that the Ministry of Finance has announced that they are going through this again with – I had just said – new glasses to see how to deal with this in the future. How long that review is going to take is impossible for me to answer, and I can't explain what I think will be the conclusion to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e834	I thank you so much again for your answer. I understand that the Minister of Labour and Administration will not draw any conclusions on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. What I think is important to clarify in this context, regardless of whether we have to take account of EU and EEA legislation, is that at least in Sweden, Denmark and Finland all these services are exempt from VAT. This is also referred to in the legislative proposal. It is amazing that we have come to the conclusion that imported goods must be subject to VAT. We expect a follow-up to this, and that we will receive it in the revised national budget at the latest. If not, the Storting will follow up on this. I hope that reference can be made to the existing legislation in the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e841	I can't promise at any time, I'm sure the representative will understand Nakkim. Otherwise, this is relatively complicated VAT technical issues, which I allow myself to say I do not think is suitable for Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e851	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A number of Kosovo Albanians have recently found that they do not want to return. They have both work and children at school in Norway. Many municipalities need their labour force. Increased labour migration is necessary to maintain Norway as a welfare country in the future. Why can't the Kosovar Albanians keep their jobs when Norway needs more immigrants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e860	As the representative of Grethe G. Fossum is well known, it has been provided since Norway evacuated Kosovar Albanians from Macedonia in the spring of 1999 that they had to return home when conditions became safe. It was the policy of the previous government, and it is the policy of the current government. I believe it is important to maintain the temporary protection system, so that we can quickly offer protection to people in a mass refugee situation when necessary. The system of collective protection for people will lose much of its importance if Kosovo Albanians who no longer need protection return to their country of origin now. However, anyone who wishes to do so has been dealt with or will receive his application for asylum in the near future, and they have also been granted access to work under the rules on temporary work permits for asylum seekers. The question raised by the representative Fossum indicates that she believes that despite the refusal to apply for asylum, Kosovo Albanians should be granted a work permit if they have a job in Norway. Granting authorisation only to applicants for asylum who have obtained work constitutes discrimination which would be unfair to those who have failed to obtain a job. In addition, such a solution means that a long way away from the regulated immigration we have today, where it is neither sufficient nor necessary that a person already has a job here to obtain a work permit. The applicant must fulfil certain conditions, such as special qualifications, in order to obtain a work permit. In addition, an application for an ordinary work permit must come from the country of origin and have been granted before entry into Norway. Derogations from this rule may be made if there are strong reasonable grounds for doing so. In practice, if asylum seekers were to apply for employment and residence permits from Norway, we would risk people seeking asylum for the purpose of accessing the labour market and not because they have a need for protection. Providing the opportunity to circumvent the general rule through an asylum application contributes to the abuse of the institution of asylum. Our experience is that the vast majority of asylum seekers do not fulfil the terms of the work permit in this country. In addition, if such an application is opened for substantive consideration, there will be a seizure of procedural resources and it will be more difficult for the applicant to return to his country of origin. In addition, an application for a work permit from an asylum seeker will often help to train and facilitate the implementation of a rejected asylum application. I am currently working on a broad review of the whole of foreign law. In the meantime, we are proposing to implement several measures, in particular to facilitate the increased recruitment of required workers from abroad. This I will come back to in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e876	First, let me correct a manifest misunderstanding — an opinion attributed to me in the response of the Council of State. I am not concerned that only those Kosovo Albanians who have work will be allowed to stay in Norway. I am actually concerned that the Kosovar Albanians themselves will have to choose whether they will be in Norway or whether they will return to Kosovo. From Hedmark, from Alvdal, from Folldal – and from many municipalities around the country – we receive letters that Kosovar Albanian labour is needed. They have, during the two years they have been here, acquired the language and qualified for work that actually does not want the North! They are well integrated, people have become happy with them, and on the other hand we need the labour they give us in the countryside. And I don't understand from the situation that is in Kosovo today – right today – that you can't look at this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e886	I have no doubt that Kosovo Albanians are real people, that many of them are doing a good job where they have got a job, and that there are also many in the communities who have been happy about them. But there is no criterion for staying in Norway. And I also believe that it cannot be a criterion for staying in Norway. It is the case that this government, which is a member of the Workers' Party, believes the same thing as the previous government, namely that there is a need for protection or other strong human interests that must be essential for a being allowed to stay in Norway. And it has been that for the Kosovar Albanians it has been clear from day one that the day it was safe to travel back, they had to expect to do it. And that's how we follow the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees who says clearly to us that for the majority of those we're talking about, it's safe to return home. Therefore, the consequence of the position that the representative Fossum has here, that they themselves should choose whether to stay here or go home, is that very many of them will not go home, and that is the challenge we are facing now. This is contrary to the policy of the Regeringa and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e893	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have noticed that the Council of States is still stressing that Kosovo is peaceful and calm. The news picture actually shows us something else. And since I've seen in the newspapers that it's been 14 days since you've been in contact with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees on Kosovo's situation, I recommend you contact me again now. For there are many of the refugees returning, who actually have a place of residence near the border with Macedonia, where it is not safe at all. Since this with the security to return has been emphasized so carefully, I allow myself to ask a little question on the side of the question I have actually asked the Council of State: wouldn't it be wise now for a time when there are difficulties in Kosovo, at least to stop the broadcast? That I think would have given a slightly different result than what's right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e900	We are constantly in contact with the UN system, also in relation to the security situation, and so have we since the meeting we had 14 days ago, because we are regular, and the clear message is that for most of the Kosovar Albanians it is safe to return home. There are few of them that we're talking about here, coming from those areas where there are concerns, and I also want to add that each case is assessed individually. Then, of course, it will also be assessed where they come from in relation to the case under consideration. My answer for the rest is: No, I'm not going to stop the return of Kosovo Albanians. I believe that, on a later occasion, we should also be open to welcome people who have an acute need for it, many at once – and the world is unfortunately so that it is likely to happen in the future too – yes, we have to be quite clear that when the security situation is safe, when there is no longer a need for protection, one has to expect to return home, and that is the case for the majority of Kosovo Albanians. Then we take into account the minorities for whom it is dangerous, and of course they are allowed to stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e910	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The installations for isolates of patients have not yet been completed in accordance with the requirements that need to be satisfied in order to secure patients and staff at the new Rikshospital. Patients who must be in isolates must be brought to other hospitals. What measures will the Council of State take to complete the work with isolates at the Rikshospitalet, and when does it expect the isolate to be put into use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e919	I'm familiar with the problems with the isolates at the Rikshospitale. This is one of the issues that will be examined in connection with the completion of the construction project by Stadsbyg. I will come back to Stortinget when this review is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e924	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is now nine years since the Stortinget decided to build the new Rikshospitalet, and I must say that as the case-law rapporteur for the matter at that time I could never imagine in my wildest imagination that the isolate installations would not be in operation nine years later. Here the State, at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has placed an order with the State, at State Building, a delivery according to its own requirements and specifications for the new hospital. The work is not finished – state buildings claim they are finished, but the user claims that they are not finished, and the state is sitting on both sides of the table. It's incredible that this is happening. Will the Government bring the government out of this embarrassing situation, which has to be resolved for the benefit of patients and the hospital staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e933	There are probably several aspects of the expansion of the Rikshospitalet that transcend the imagination of the time the Stortinget decided to expand. It has certainly been the subject of discussions in Stortinget several times ago. What is actually happening today is that the isolates taken up here by the representative Brunæs are not in a satisfactory constitution so that they can be put into service. They must be brought in. There are several aspects that are not satisfactory and remedial work must also be done in the future. As I said, we come back to Stortinget with an overall presentation of this later in the spring, and then the question of the isolates will also be explained. I'm aiming to get out of the unhappy situation that you're in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e938	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that he is busy solving this problem, and I hope, on behalf of both the employees, the hospital and the patients, that this matter will be resolved, because there is also a danger that the hospital does not have these isolates in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e943	I look forward to coming back to Stortinget with a statement on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e951	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘Recently, very critical conditions have emerged in the children’s ward at the Central Hospital in Møre and Romesdal, both in terms of having Corridor Asians due to lack of space and very awkward conditions for children who have to be isolated due to a risk of infection from other patients. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the County Council in order to provide a permanent solution to the problems of the Children's Department and that children must not suffer because of poor priorities?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e960	Let me first stress that the issues raised by the representative Nesvik fall within the responsibility of each institution to ensure proper operation. This is regulated by various laws, regulations and administrative provisions, mainly the law on specialist health care and the law on protection against infectious diseases. The responsibility is assigned to the individual hospital owner, in this case the municipality of More and the municipality of Romesdal. As regards the situation at the Central Hospital of More and Romesdal Children's Department, I have been informed that, during some periods of one year, problems may arise in implementing measures to ensure infection from other patients. It is difficult to predict when such problems will arise, but they have occurred relatively often in recent times. It highlights the question of whether the capacity and area of the children’s compartment are correctly dimensioned according to actual needs. I myself visited the Central Hospital in Ålesund and inspected the Children's Department. It is an impressive work done there, despite the fact that the available area can be described as very scarce. The problems this creates are taken very seriously. From the point of view of management, it is stressed that the situation is not irresponsible for patients. However, it is a fact that the real area needs of the department are not adequately met. This also acknowledges the municipality of More and Romesdal. The county council says that the area conditions of the children's ward are subject to assessment and investigation with a view to improvement. In the case of Corridor Asians at the hospital, I have been informed that this has been primarily a problem related to the medical department. I have been informed that the fire authorities have specifically focused on this and assessed the safety and access to escape routes as unsatisfactory. The hospital and the hospital owner, Morene and Romsdal County, have had a dialogue with the fire department in Ålesund and with the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection on this matter. The hospital has now established satisfactory precautions in the event of a fire. Regardless of this, it is, of course, highly unsatisfactory that there are still many Corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals. Also at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, it has been observed that this problem has gone off the hook, often from epidemic - like conditions in the population. In particular, this shall apply to outbreaks of influenza. However, the County Council stated that in the period August to December 2000, it was not, as it were, Corridor Asians at the Central Hospital. I would like to stress that the central authorities are closely following the situation at the Central Hospital of More and Romsdal, and that there is also contact with the problems associated with Corridor Asians. At present, there does not seem to be any basis for initiating measures beyond those already initiated by hospitals and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e975	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I regret to note that the so-called solution to the problems, among other things. in the case of Corridor Asians at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, unfortunately not available. This will take place, among other things: of media redundancies no later than one week ago that there are a number of corridor Asians at risk in the event of a fire, in addition to the fact that it is also demeaning for patients to be continuously laid down in the corridor. This applies both to the Children’s Department and to the Medical Department. If you don't get a permanent solution to these problems soon, I fear that the staff will be burned out and apply to other departments, because there is an unsustainable situation for the staff who are there, and not least there is an unsustainable situation for the patients. Will the Council of State ensure a review of these problems at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, so that a permanent solution can be found, which is not actually available today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e984	First of all, I do not want to defend in any way the fact that there are Corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals, whether at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal or elsewhere. It is a relationship that I have repeatedly said that we must end. It is also my impression that hospital owners and hospital managers around are actively working to get out of that situation. In this respect, there has also been a review of the conditions at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal that I referred to. It's my impression that it's working well to get out of this situation. It will take some time, but I think you're going towards a situation where on a permanent basis it won't be Corridor Asians. In any case, I do not see that I can take further initiatives from my side in addition to what the county council is now implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e989	In fact, the paradox in the situation at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal is that there is a bed room that is not in use, while a large number of corridor Asians are in use at the hospital. When you're actually not willing to prioritize opening that bedpost so that patients can be treated properly, I have to say that I feel that you don't take the problems seriously. There is one way that I hope the Minister of Health will now address this: I would ask the Minister of Health to contact the Health Service to get a report on the situation at the Central Hospital in Møre and Romesdal. Unfortunately, there are so many corridor Asians that I fear both for fire safety, for the staff of the institution, for the lives and health of patients and, not least, for human dignity. Will the Council of State take an initiative in relation to the Health Authority, so that he is presented with a report on the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e996	Health surveillance is also involved in the issue of Corridor Asians at the hospital. I also expect to receive a report from the Health Authority on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1004	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘A patient returned after an operation in Germany and was to have the stings removed from Stensby Hospital at Eidsvoll. After being denied help because of the alleged risk of infection, she finally got an agreement, but was rejected and sent home. After contacting the county doctor, the matter was finally settled. Such episodes after authorised treatment abroad are not acceptable. Can I ask the Council of State to confirm that it will be ensured that no others will be subjected to similar negative positions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1013	I know that, unfortunately, there have been episodes of inadequate follow-up of some patients when they returned from operations abroad, and I fully agree with the representative of Alvheim that such episodes cannot be accepted. Two letters have gone so far from the department to the county councils on the scheme. The first letter, which was sent on 23 November last year, says: ‘It is foreseen that regular out-of-patient follow-up/control and any post-treatment of patients who have been treated abroad shall be carried out in Norway.’; The second letter, dated 10 January of this year, states: ‘Ev. after-treatment/control of patients who have been treated abroad is the responsibility of the county and the costs shall be borne by the county municipalities.» There is therefore little formal doubt as to who is responsible for the situation described. Some hospitals have interpreted the regulations of the State Health Authority so that all patients who come home from abroad are treated as infectious patients. The hospital management at Stensby Hospital has both lamented the incident that Alvheim’s representative refers to, and assured them that they have cleaned up internal procedures. They have also expressed their written regret that they have not taken sufficient responsibility for the patients returning from abroad and confirmed that they will assume full responsibility for such patients in the future. Although treatment procedures may vary slightly from country to country, we must assume that Norwegian health professionals adopt a flexible approach that takes care of patients’ interests. The experience gained from this first part of the project has been particularly useful for the further planning and implementation of the new scheme. On the basis of these experiences, in the future, the Riksstrøgdeverket will pay extra attention to establishing systems to ensure patients better after receiving treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1032	I thank the Minister of Health and am pleased that he also finds the situation in which this woman has been living, totally unacceptable. I have spoken to the patient myself and have confirmed that the information in Dagbladet on 7 March was correct. At the same time, let me be glad that officials at the Health and Social Director's office in Akershus intervened and made sure that the patient got his sutures removed. However, the fact that the patient had to wait six hours to get this done clearly shows that this patient was not welcome to Stensby Hospital. And that in itself is hair traveler. Last Friday I got a message about another case. One patient went for 28 days with his sutures and eventually had to get help from a private clinic because Stensby Hospital would not accept the patient this time and remove the sutures. Is the Minister of Health familiar with the latest relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1043	I am not familiar with any individual cases other than my first answer. However, as I said, the management at Stensby Hospital, after the matter arose, both verbally and in writing, complained about the incident. They have assured them that it has been cleaned up in their internal procedures, and that in the future they will take full responsibility for the patients who need follow-up at the hospital after treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1048	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. After further examination, it appears that Stensby hospital nurses have rejected patients with reference to circular IK-28/96 on infectious diseases, where all patients from abroad are considered to be infectious patients. I would like to quote one of the paragraphs of the I.D.: ‘Pre-examination referred to in the first subparagraph shall not result in a serious delay in the treatment of the patient or in the risk or inconvenience of the patient.’; Then my question is: Does the Minister of Health agree that these two women are talking about have been subjected to serious disadvantages from Stensby Hospital's side? And will the Minister of Health ensure that this does not happen afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1060	I have all agreed that the type of episodes to which this has been shown is not acceptable. It is according to what I also understand the management of Stensby Hospital. I will once again assure myself, also by reference to the second case to which the representative Alvheim refers, that there is a reality, so that there are no misunderstandings about the issues involved, either at the hospital management or at the employees responsible for the type of treatment/aftertreatment that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1071	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘The National Gallery may have messed up several thousand works of art, showing a report from the National Audit Office. Is the Council of State satisfied with this situation at the National Gallery and possibly also at other State institutions, and what would the Council of State do if not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1080	The acquisition and conservation of visual art are among the most important tasks of the National Gallery. The museum’s collection includes both Norwegian and foreign visual arts, of which 4,500 paintings, 900 sculptures, and over 43 000 older and newer graphic prints and hand drawings. Graphics and drawings are located in the Copper Stitch and Hand Drawing Collection, where there is a large increase in work every year. On 11 and 12 October 2000, the National Audit Office carried out a review of the National Gallery’s meeting. 76 works of art were requested, of which 11 paintings and 65 graphic pages/drawings. Of these, nine could not be shown during the National Audit Office’s visit. On 1 March 2001, the National Audit Office set a deadline for the National Gallery to obtain the works. The national gallery disposes of tight magazines and limited resources. This, in combination with the requirement for all-sided extrovert activity, has resulted in the registration of the collection being incomplete. This means that it is a very time-consuming and labor-intensive task to find out the remaining nine works among the more than 43 000 numbers in the inventory protocols. Following the control of the National Audit Office, the museum has prioritised resources to find the remaining leaves and drawings. This led to that per cent. On 17 December 2000 two remaining works were not found. By letter of 5 January 2001, the National Gallery informed the National Audit Office that the collection of graphics and hand drawings should be reviewed in full. The previous review was carried out in 1969. Resources have been allocated to the task and work started on 1 February 2001. In that letter, the National Gallery proposes that the search for the two remaining works be included in the overall review of the graphics and hand drawing collection. In recent years, the National Gallery, together with the Museum of Contemporary Art, has focused on developing a new database register for digital cataloguing and administration of the art collection, Imago. More than 17 000 works from the National Gallery collection are already covered by Imago, and in the long term all are to be included in the register. In the case of other state institutions, this includes the Contemporary Art Museum and the Public Building Embellishment Fund. After the information I have received, these institutions have an overview of their collections, so that the works can be presented upon request. It shall be noted that these institutions have most different activities. The Museum of Contemporary Art reports that it has a complete overview of the collection, both in its own magazines and those borrowed or deposited elsewhere. The Ornamental Fund has the administrative responsibility for art produced by means of the fund, while the user has the current administrative responsibility. All such works of art are registered in the database. Finally, I would like to point out that two of the institutions mentioned here, the National Gallery and the Museum of Contemporary Art, are part of the co-organization of art institutions in and at Oslo in a new art museum, as outlined in St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000, Source of knowledge and experience, ABM message. As you know, the Storting has mainly joined the content of the message through Innst. S. No 46 for 2000-2001 and 1 December 2000. The registration problems, etc. which has emerged shows that there is a strong need for rapid solutions in line with the process outlined in the ABM message. This will include, inter alia: involve the movement and repositioning of objects. The registration of works by institutions needs to be improved and given higher priority in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1101	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer. It is very gratifying that the National Gallery has rediscovered several of the works of art that were not controlled at that time by the National Audit Office. My question does not end in rice to those who work there, or the routines. They have my full trust and respect for the job they do, often far beyond what they are obliged to do. But it subsides in respect of the investments we make in the form of the purchase of art, in respect of all the works of art of which Norway becomes the recipient, for example. in the form of gifts, and not least in respect of the artists themselves. That is why I am reasonably satisfied now with the report that the National Gallery has created two 80 pst. positions to carry out a full review of all the gallery has. This must not have happened since 1969, according to the Council of State. So to the question, will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that other state cultural institutions also go through their assets and their archives, thus gaining control of the works that may be out of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1110	As I said in my post, I view the registration of works of art in our museums as a very central and important task. It is important for us in the Ministry of Culture to make sure that registration is satisfactory in all the institutions we have, which have the great responsibility of caring for works of art and great values on behalf of the Norwegian community. Like the representative Bredvold, I am pleased with the progress that is now being made in the National Gallery by employing two project staff who have as their primary task to put this in place in the National Gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1115	An article in the VG of 7 December states, inter alia: the following: ‘Since they have little or no public interest, and little or no economic or artistic value, the National Gallery does not consider it appropriate to start a review of the entire collection in order to clean up,’ writes the Riksaudition in its report.’ Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Who will determine the value of any work of art?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1125	The Ministry of Culture will focus on the professional evaluation and evaluation of institutions. There is a high level of artistic competence, among other things. in the national gallery, which will determine the value of each work of art. As regards the interest of the audience, to which the representative Bredvold here refers is mentioned in that article in the VG, it will vary according to the context in which a work of art is presented. The public must ensure that all works of art are properly and properly kept and recorded. That's my clear opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1135	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The House Bank grant schemes for nursing homes and nursing homes can now be used for the construction of such housing units abroad. The municipality of Bergen has an agreement with the Bethany Hospital about 25 such sites in Spain. This hospital will be completed in August, but it is claimed that the county doctor lacks guidelines to give the House Bank an opinion on the project, which thus stops. Will the Council of State contribute to the implementation of such guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1144	The guidelines currently applicable to grants from the Husbank to nursing homes and nursing homes abroad specify that there is a condition for granting grants that the municipality provides services to recipients with a sound standard and that relevant Norwegian legislation should guide the level, quality and design of services. The municipality is also required to describe/document the measures or solutions it has planned to ensure that it provides adequate services before grants can be granted, and the municipality must have clarified how ancillary services such as: the need for medical treatment must be met. The same requirements have been laid down for state and county medical opinions as for projects built in Norway. The municipality applying for a grant must demonstrate to the county/companies that the requirements of the guidelines are satisfied. There are still some legal issues that need to be followed up and clarified before grants can be granted, including: issues related to supervision by Norwegian authorities abroad. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has sent a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, raising issues of foreign supervision and relations with international law. It is also necessary to make some changes to the regulation governing the grant scheme. Letters with proposals for regulatory changes have been sent to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This does not prevent county doctors from dealing with a specific application for a grant to nursing homes or nursing homes abroad. The county doctor may issue an opinion on the application in accordance with the guidelines given to date. In the opinion, the full-time medical practitioner must presume that the necessary clarifications will be available when a final decision is to be taken on the application. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has recently been in contact with the county doctor in Hordaland about this, and there is agreement that the county doctor can deal with the application concerning the municipality of Bergen and the town of Betanien Hospitalet. The same applies to the application submitted by the municipality of Bærum, which has been sent to the county doctor in Akershus for an opinion. I do not know that other municipalities have promoted applications for grants from the House Bank for projects abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1155	When you have made a political decision, you expect it to be put to work. I understand that this requires legislation in place, but this is not a very complicated matter, so we should really expect the necessary guidelines to be put in place. I notice that the Council of State has taken an initiative here, and it is clear from the Council of State's response that there is nothing to prevent this matter from proceeding without delay in the relationship between the Bethany Hospital and the municipality of Bergen and the county doctor. If I understand correctly, there is no delay at this time, so that this project can be continued according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1160	The representative Naess has understood me correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1168	‘The level of the government’s submitted rates of economic social assistance was disappointingly low. The calculation of the level of the rates says the Government is based on individual elements of the SIFO standard budget, without specifying which elements are included and which are excluded. [[State Institute for Consumer Research]] Nor is it disclosed how long a person believes that living at these rates should be allowed. Will the Council of State provide transparency in the calculation basis, which elements have been omitted and the rationale for the selection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1175	Economic benefits under the Social Services Act are, as you know, intended to provide temporary benefits in a situation where a person is not able to provide his/her own living in another way. The indicative guidelines for the measurement of social security benefits for living are therefore targeted at current, daily expenditure. The level of the indicative guidelines is based on a concrete assessment of the expenditure needs of the expenditure covered by the guidelines. The expenditure elements covered by the indicative guidelines are based to a certain extent on individual elements of the SIFO standard budget. In addition, a set has a reference to the average level of local authority standards today. SIFO has assisted the Ministry in the preparation of the guidance guidelines. The Ministry has been able to benefit from the research and methodological approach underpinning SIFO's standard expenditure budget. The standard SIFO budget shows the costs of maintaining a reasonable and general level of consumption acceptable to most people. The budget is a long-term budget which, in addition to current daily expenditure, also includes expenditure such as the less frequent purchases of durables. There are important differences between the standard SIFO budget for consumption expenditure and the guidance on social benefits for living. These differences have an impact on the choice of cost elements. The indicative guidelines cover expenditure on food and drink, clothing and shoes, health and hygiene, other groceries, TV licences, newspapers and telephones, leisure activities, children’s leisure equipment and the use of public communications for daily purposes. In addition, the standard budget includes expenditure on leisure equipment for adults, baby equipment, white goods, furniture and miscellaneous household related items, home insurance, car costs and kindergarten. The guidance guidelines for life support are not time-limited in relation to the length of the social benefit period. In the case of long-term receipt of benefits, there may be a need for social benefits, in addition to current expenditure, for example: the renewal of dwellings and white goods. The guidelines also do not provide guidance on calculating social benefits in acute situations. I would like to point out that the starting point of the law on an individual need test is also fixed within a system of state guidance. The guidelines are a tool for the practical judgement in assessing the social benefit needs of the individual case. In addition, if the State guidance guidelines are used as a starting point for the assessment of a social benefit case, social services have to assess whether there are costs that are not covered by the guidelines for which benefits are to be provided. This relates to expenditure in the ‘core area’ of life-care, but which is affected on a case-by-case basis by individual needs and/or geographical variations, and is therefore not included in the calculation basis of the indicative guidelines: housing costs, electricity and heating, house and accommodation insurance, and expenditure on housing and white goods. In any case, the question of compensation for this type of expenditure must be considered separately in each municipality. In addition, the Ministry has defined some expenditure which, depending on the specific situation, can be considered as necessary living. This applies, inter alia, to: expenditure relating to holidays and specialities, baby equipment, childcare, schooling of children, expenses related to child relations, medical consultation, medicines, car maintenance and some specific needs. The need for expenditure must be assessed in detail here. In addition, if a cost is not considered necessary for the applicant's living according to Section 5-1 of the Act on Social Security for Life, the social service must consider whether a benefit can be provided under Section 5-2 of the Act, in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1194	I thank you for your answer. There was some clarity about what you had brought, and what you have left out. Then there's a discussion about this has been a proper assessment. I'm going to say that with the result you've come out with the guidance standards, you've ended up with a very greedy system, which I think will essentially help take courage from people and make them even more passive and despairing in their situation. And what I think was the most worrying thing about it all, is that the government seems to have put quite a lot of emphasis on the average level of municipal norms today. Then I have to ask the social minister: wasn't it the intention of these new norms to lift the social clients, because they were the poorest? Why, instead of focusing on expenditure that everyone has, have you put emphasis on standards that today hold people in permanent poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1201	As the representative of Andersen points out, we may not fully agree on how these standards should be and should be understood. What we've been focusing on is, as I said in my post, a number of common expenses. In addition, we have also looked at the payments made by municipalities today, and we are above some of the municipalities and below those that pay the most. What is new is that there are separate rates for children who are also age-rated. And it's been important for us to raise this particular group. Otherwise, social assistance will never be what lifts people out of poverty. There are completely different social welfare schemes that have to do. And we're working on that all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1210	There are many measures that need to lift people out of poverty. The question is whether social assistance should lock people in a trap of poverty and make them more difficult to get out of it. I'm afraid that's what's going on right now. The council says that the new thing is now these social benefits for children. And that's positive. But if you look at what the sum is, if you look at what you get now in individual social benefits for children, and if you compare it with the fact that the government not only asks for it, but actually now almost obliges the municipalities to take cash support, child benefits and one-off benefits at birth into the calculation basis for social assistance, you get very poor in several municipalities. I have received some examples from the municipality of Bergen where families with children can lose up to NOK 5000 a month on the new system. Does this mean that the social minister believes that social clients in these municipalities have been too well off?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1217	It is still up to each municipality to assess what is going on. But I have to remind you that social assistance is a temporary benefit intended to be in a snipe roof. What's going to make people get out of poverty traps is that they get into work, that they get homes at prices they can live with, or that they get into the other forms of social welfare that we have in this country, and that there are a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1227	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘According to several newspaper headlines, there is an unacceptable situation for the elderly in both nursing homes and home-based care in the cities of Skien and Porsgrund. In hospital settings, it has been found that elderly people, especially senile dementia, suffer from severe nutritional failure. Does the Council of State know whether these are conditions elsewhere in our country, and in the event of what action does the Council of State think can be taken to address such unworthy conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1236	From time to time, examples of unworthy conditions in the care of the elderly in the municipalities, at the latest in Porsgrund and Skien, are identified. These are serious reminders both for the municipalities themselves and for government authorities that not everything is working properly. In the Skien and Porsgrön municipalities, this has helped to ensure that already on Monday a meeting was held between the management of Telemark central hospital and the administrative and health and care management of the two municipalities. Here the operators themselves have taken responsibility and will, among other things, look at the cooperation between the hospital and primary health services in the two municipalities. Many older people, not least senile dementia, need extensive help and care. Many home-dwelling dentures may have difficulty in administering meals and food intake, and experience shows that in some cases this may lead to malnutrition. Today, about half of home-care users are demented, and of those living in institutions, 70–75 are pst. demente. We face major challenges in this area, and there is still a need to strengthen and further develop the service. On the question from the representative on the measures in question, I would therefore like to highlight several important points: The development now taking place through the action plan on care for the elderly means strengthening the provision of care for the elderly, as well as senile demente. An evaluation of the grant scheme for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes shows that through this scheme, municipalities have invested in expanding the provision of services to people with dementia. Work on the action plan for health and social workers has now increased the number of employees in the sector and also increased skills in the form of more than one higher education institution. Through the national geriatric programme, we have been putting geriatrics on the agenda for the last few years. Among other things, geriatric competence is increased, and geriatric services in the counties have been strengthened in the last five years. In 1997, the National Centre of Competence for Age Judiciary was established. The Centre conducts research, development and documentation on the need for services to demente. The centre has just surveyed the use of coercion in dementia care. In the care of this group, one will often face the choice of failing to provide care to someone who needs it and violating his integrity. The Ministry is now working on legislation on the restriction and control of the use of coercion in municipal care services to people with dementia, and a consultation note on legislative proposals is to be sent out during the year. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is also carrying out a major review of the legislation in the health and social field. As part of this work, there is a separate group to look in particular at health and care services for chronically ill and dying, including senile dementia. An important part of this work is to look at the grey zone issue. The Ministry has just drawn up a regulation on individual plans which will enter into force on 1 June. Individual plans are important to ensure a satisfactory follow-up of the individual user, especially where many different help agencies are involved. I would also like to stress that it is important to strengthen and further develop the supervisory tasks of county doctors in the health care of municipalities. ==References====External links== supervision of the internal control to be exercised by all activities in the care sector under the Local Health Act. Experience has shown that the system audits of county doctors do not always reveal critical conditions in the health and care sector, which we have now seen examples of in Skien and Porsground. This is something we will look at in the context of the reorganisation of state health and social governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs shares my commitment to this matter. It is also reassuring that local authorities have addressed this issue. Unfortunately, many of our older people do not get the dignity of old age they claim. I myself have worked in the care of the elderly and have met the frustration both the elderly themselves and their families often feel. Making sure people get a good and safe old age is one of the most important tasks that society has. I am therefore very pleased that the Government has had an impact on its escalation plan for the reform of the care of the elderly. Today, new nursing homes, exclusive homes, are being built so that we can meet the aging wave that will come. Nevertheless, there is someone who is not being caught by the system, and one of the main reasons why some people do not get the help they need may be a lack of staff, which the Council of State also had in mind. Today we need several thousand health workers, and we'll be missing many more in the future if we don't do anything to ensure the recruitment. At the same time, we know that the increase in health and social education in secondary schools has fallen. Can the Council of State point to what measures does the Government propose to ensure the essential recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1270	I consider the Action Plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to be an important tool to improve the personnel situation in relation to skills building and recruitment. Through the Action Plan for Health and Social Staff, the Ministry grants grants grants to the municipalities for the training of unskilled and for continuing training of personnel in the care and care sectors. It's also important to keep the ones we have in the sector. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also, in cooperation with the KS, started work in relation to the working environment and management, which are important elements in the needs of municipalities to recruit and retain staff. It is particularly important that municipalities follow up their employer's responsibilities in this respect. This is particularly important in order to meet the special competence needs of the Ministry. We now go into a few years of very small youth coal, and then it is very important that everyone who is involved in nursing and nursing shows up for a great work done there, so that we also recruit in the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1277	I thank the Council of State for the answer again and am pleased that the Government is following up and taking the problems of recruitment seriously. As the Council of State said, it is important to motivate young people to apply for these professions, in which case special professional letters and apprenticeships are important in this context. These are heavy and important professions where we need a lot of skilled staff. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government adds to a broad recruitment of both unskilled and trained personnel. Then there is no need for any further questions from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1287	I allow myself to promote the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In the context of the reorganisation work currently under way in the Coastal Works, many in the north fear that the competence of the Lødingen pilot station and the Lødingen pilot station may be reduced. With increasing shipping traffic and the high unsolved need for control, both in the inner and along the long North Norwegian coasts, any such reduction in Lødingen is very worrying. Will the Council of State ensure that such a reduction of the LOD centre is prevented?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1296	I attach great importance to the optimal organisation of the Coastal Works and the services they provide to their users. In St.meld. No 13 for 2000-2001 On the organisation of the Coastal Works, which was dealt with at Stortinget on 27 February this year, it is stated that the Administration and Administration of the Coastal Works should be reviewed at regional level. The point of such work is to look at the possibilities of efficiency and specialisation and to centralise different functions where this is rational. Int. S. No 127 for 2000-2001 the majority of the Committee on Transport concludes that the location of administrative functions can be assessed in the interest of efficient operation. The pilotage service currently has seven coastal pilotage centres. The main task of the distributors is to receive unloading orders from unloaded vessels and to assign unloadings on the basis of the orders. The dispersal databases are used for recording traffic along the coast and for controlling the use of evidence of fairgrounds. The centre of Lødingen is responsible for the unemployment services in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. An important measure of efficiency in the piloting service will be to centralise the pilotage to fewer places. The recent developments with the introduction of computer systems and mobile phones have made this possible. The Coastal Directorate enters this round in order for three places to operate unloading operations. These places will be the Horten, the White Sea and the Løding. This conversion is expected to take place during the current year. Experience from this conversion will be crucial for the possible further efficiency of the service. Such future efficiencies can be achieved by adding the dissemination to one place throughout the country. I would like to stress that the future structure of unloading must, of course, take account of efficient operation, while at the same time having a strong need along our long-distance coast to maintain the highest possible level of safety. Licensing and related pilotage is an important element of this security. Therefore, a further pooling of functions of one Liaison Management Centre will only be considered in the light of the experience gained in the establishment of three Liaison Management Centres. There is therefore no plan to drop the bulk distribution centre in Lødingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1311	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I so far perceive to be positive. I assume that recent developments have come a great deal of this work to which the Council of State refers, in the run-up, not least with the accidents that we have witnessed, which in many ways demonstrate an increased need for presence, for competence and for monitoring – not least in the geographical area that I address in my question, which represents more than half of the total Norwegian coast. First of all, I assume that the Council of State will ensure that the competences we have in the north – i.e. now located in the Lødningen – are not reduced, that the environment and competence in the Lødningen are allowed to participate in the further evaluation, and that the Council of State can guarantee today that the competence and the environment that we believe we have in place in the north, not in this round, and at least when we look forward, should be moved from the part of the country and south.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1318	I fully agree with the representative of Kristiansen that this is an important coastal area, where it is important to have good coastal preparedness, and the unloading service is part of this. The center of Lødningen is very important and is going to be in the future as well, and I can't see that it will be justifiable, with what we can oversee right now, to make any change in this. This will also be part of a total system that must have other elements. But at the same time, we have a claim, since these are services paid by the industry, to ensure that this operates in a rational and sensible way, so that the total loss resources we have are used as well as possible. And I don't want to draw attention to the fact that sometimes the unloading capacity can be a bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1323	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I once again saw as very positive. I think recent developments only prove that we should not go in a direction where monitoring, control and knowledge should be reduced; it should and should be increased. I agree with the considerations that are about to put new technology into practice. But it has to be synchronised at a time when we're getting an increase in traffic with foreign ships that probably don't, at least not today, but not in the long term, will be operational with the same type of technique that we'll be able to have at the control point nationally. We're getting more oil traffic, we're probably getting traffic from nuclear waste in the most sensitive coastal areas we have across Europe. And then I perceive the council so that he will guarantee that the solder is not the place to be demolished. The environment and the knowledge we have in the north are ringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1328	The representative is quite right when he sees this as a positive answer. We need the skills in the Solution, and I can't see that there's any reason to change this, as far as we can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1336	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for the Environment: «Member States are responsible for ensuring that Norway complies with its obligations towards the Berne Convention. Large salamander is a totally satisfied species of Berne Convention considered particularly conservational. Nevertheless, the state of Oslo County and Akershus County is about to allow one of three large salamander ponds in Oslo to be refilled and destroyed. What will the Government do to save the population of large salamanders in Møllesvingen 20 in Oslo and avoid Norway breaking the Berne Convention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1345	The mill turn in Oslo was regulated for residential purposes in 1981. Last September, Oslo gave the municipality a framework permit for development. The extension includes drainage and filling with the planning of a pond. The application complies with the regulatory plan and therefore no derogation is required. The municipality has found large and small salamanders in the pond through surveys in the late 1980s. The decision is appealed by the Swedish Nature Conservation Association in Oslo and Akershus and is expected to be decided by the county council during the month of March. Large and small salamanders are included in the Norwegian red list. Large salamanders are classified as directly threatened, i.e. the strictest category, and small salamanders as vulnerable. The species are included in the lists of the Berne Convention, such as: commits to the conservation of the species and to the safeguarding of their habitats. The Berne Convention's obligation to ensure habitats means that sites that are important for ensuring the long-term survival of the species in the country are maintained. This involves specific measures to ensure these premises. The main prevalence of large salamanders in Norway is in the West, but also parts of the East are important for the species. In order to safeguard Norway’s main area, Geitaknottane nature reserves were established in Hordaland in 1997. This is also one of the most important individual areas of the species in Europe. Individual locations unless occurrences will also have significant value. It does not automatically protect any site with the presence of a threatened or vulnerable species. The intention of the Berne Convention is to ensure the survival of the population in the country over time. Therefore, actions in individual locations which do not have a significant national impact on the overall survival of the species cannot be considered to be in conflict with the Convention without delay. The principle of the Law on Planning and Building is that local authorities are responsible for ensuring that planning does not conflict with important regional or national interests. By virtue of § 27-2 of the Planning and Building Act, the Ministry of the Environment may, on its own initiative, suspend the plan or make the changes required if the plan is contrary to national interests. I will now await the County's handling of the complaint case. However, I would like to stress that I am concerned that vulnerable habitat types are often built down bit by bit, and that the sum of this may have a negative impact on the diversity of Norwegian nature. Therefore, the government will shortly present its own biodiversity impact assessment. In this message, among other things, it will: focus on strengthening monitoring and monitoring activities as a basis for administrative measures in municipalities. The Communication will also clarify national interests and provide guidance for further work on biodiversity management. I can also inform you that the Government will take the initiative in a comprehensive review of the law in this area. The question of automatic protection of sites important for endangered and vulnerable species will also be considered in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1362	I am grateful for the basic position of the Council of State which was made clear in the answer. There have even been some attempts to ridicule the public that this is a small animal in a small pond in Oslo, but the actual relationship is that the greatest variation in species diversity in Norway is in the Oslo area. If not also people in urban areas should have deep respect for this, but almost leave it to other parts of the country, you will not get the necessary understanding. I have also learned that, in addition to what the Council of State says about these areas in the West, Oslo and Akershus are also important areas of great salamander in Europe. When I take this up, it's because the housing regulation in the area was dealt with in the early 1980s, and then in the 1990s a survey of amphibians in Oslo has been carried out, and this is not seen in the context. I have been deeply concerned about ending up in a black-and-white game between administration levels that have different types of legislation. And last but not least, when a species is completely satisfied, it cannot have 19 different administrative regimes in Norway. The state has to set some game rules. That is the background for my raising the question and also stressing this case in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1371	So when it comes to the matter itself, I will come back to it if it comes to my table after treatment at the county. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance that municipalities take biodiversity seriously in their planning. Since it is the municipalities that have the greatest responsibility for planning and regulation in this country, it is also important that responsibility for protection, based on national guidelines, is carried out through that planning. This will be an important basis for me when I go into the matter, just as it is an important basis for me to preserve biodiversity and also to take care of the salamander population in Norway. My decision will also clearly be based on our compliance with the Berne Convention in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1378	I fully agree with the Council of State on how the municipalities should manage their responsibilities. However, it is now the case that laws exist at different times in Norway, and it is not always the case and the legislation is seen in the context. I understand the council so that at least she will be sure that it is done in a proper way. In any case, I perceive that as a safeguard for the handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1383	I share Odd Einar Dørum's commitment to the matter, and I can assure you that I will do all the necessary proceedings on my part when it comes to my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1391	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Minister for Culture and the Minister for Justice have, on written question, no. 220 and 223 concerning the film ‘The Kingdom of the Swiss’, given a response confirming that the film and videogram complaint subject of its decision will ‘produce useful corrigenda in relation to the application of the standards of morality’, and likely ‘will have an indirect impact on the discretionary assessment of what is to be regarded as illegal pornography’. Does the Council of State consider the border movement of the complainant to be desirable and should the decision guide future assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1400	As late as 1998 the Stortinget created the complaint topic for film and videogram. The subject of the complaint deals with complaints about decisions taken by the State Film Authority. The natural consequence of this is that decisions taken by complainants are relevant to future practices in the State Film Authority. Having said that, I would like to point out that the complaint subject of film and videogram has so far only dealt with one such case. It is therefore impossible to say anything about how many cases the complaint will review the decision of the State Film Authority. It is therefore not possible to determine at present whether this would lead to changes in the practice of approving the production of this type of film. It follows from the mandate of the complainant that the denominator must exercise discretion within the applicable legislation. From the point of view of history, it is obvious that in this area, it has been seen that estimations over time have shifted, for example. is also reflected in the decisions of the courts. When the complaint topic of film and videogram is now given the role of dealing with complaints about decisions taken by the State Film Authority, I think we will have to deal with that, and not on a case-by-case basis mean anything about their individual decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1409	The majority of the Judicial Committee shall, inter alia: in connection with the change in sexual legislation last June expressed the willingness to protect human dignity. Does the Minister of Justice mean that the ‘kingdom of the Swiss’ contributes to this and is in line with what the Grand Government thinks when presented in the Official Journal of Drammen: ‘The 25-year-old film is an erotic chamber game that contains about everything that has over time caused the censorship to react: sex in many variants, erect penis in motion and hints of pedophilia, homophobia and necrophilia, as well as ecstatic suffocation and castration.’ For the undersigned, it seems that in some way we mean something in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is a part of giving the law, while those who are going to follow it up, so to speak, are allowed to do as they please. Does the Minister of Justice think this is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1419	My answer really has two terms. One is that the decision on the subject of complaints in relation to this particular film does not make it possible to determine any change, and in that case what a change in practice this decision means. The subject of the complaint has therefore dealt with one case relating to this type of film, and they have carried out an overall assessment of this film in the light of the provision in which it operates, which I do not now remember the paragraph number, but which has the wording ‘contradicts negligence’. It is that assessment, whether it is contrary to morality, that the subject of complaints has done. The subject of complaints is a broad and complex one that one has to try to make the assessment a little wider than what was done before, where the assessment was made only by the State Film Authority. Once you have made the complaint subject to make the assessments, I believe that I and others will be withholding from commenting on the individual decisions. I have to add a little more, President, if I can get permission: the subject of complaints in its decision stresses that it means that they approve the film as a whole, not that single sequences in the film shown can only be contrary to Section 204 of the Penal Code. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1426	The President requests that the Council of State stay within the allotted speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1429	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1434	I accept that a decision has been made. The problem is that that decision leads to this film being shown all over the country. I personally believe that there is a link between the liberalisation of what is being shown, which in this way helps to legitimise what is to be acceptable factors of influence in society, and, on the other hand, the affront of human dignity, yes, commercialisation, this use and caste, which increasingly make children and women a "right" for the needs of men. I can't believe the Minister of Justice can't see this context. If that's right as I say, does that mean that when we have appointed a complaint subject, does the Minister of Justice think it should be up to this complaint topic to do something about this? Do we want others to sit still and look at developments that a majority of the Judicial Committee does not consider desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1441	The government was behind and the Workers' Party joined in what was the majority decision in the Storting this summer, and of course we still do. I believe that if the subject of complaints over time represents a development in the understanding of the concept of ‘negligence’ in which corruption and government disagree, something must be done about it. But at the same time, I believe that there is no reason to intervene in any way in relation to the subject of complaints after it has taken one decision – in one case, which is the first case – that we do not now have the opportunity to know about is a practice that is totally insane in relation to the understanding of the concept of ‘negligence’. We have set up a complaint topic to assess what is going to be in ‘negligence’, and now we first get to stay a little on the table and accept that then it is also a complaint subject that assesses it. Then we'll see if we think that this practice is unfortunate, and if you have to change the law to tighten up – if you think there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1449	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to the media, last year, Senja experienced an increase in criminal cases and interrogations of about 10 %. 40 pst. Civil matters increased by 12 pst. So far, there has been an increase of another 30 pst. The procedural period is 6-7 months. The Ministry of Justice’s objective is to deal with criminal cases within 3 months. The sorenist has asked for one judge and one courtroom, but has been refused. What can the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1458	The period of winding-up in the courts varies from one court to another, but the vast majority of the courts in the first instance have a trial period that meets the Ministry's objective. In 2000, Senja’s Sorenskrembetbete had a case resolution period in criminal proceedings of 100 days on average, i.e. 10 days above the Ministry's objective for the average settlement time in this type of case. For cases concluded between 1 January and 28 February of this year, the average case resolution time is 135 days, or 41⁄2 months on average. In the framework of the adopted budget for 2001, it will not be possible to strengthen Senja's sorenschrifbete without being required by other courts to mobilise resources accordingly. In other words, this would require that judicial positions be kept available elsewhere. It is necessary to assess whether such a resource transfer is correct in a total context. Such assessments are carried out on an ongoing basis by the Ministry but have not yet decided on such a transfer of resources to Senja. The need for increased judicial capacity should also be assessed in order to strengthen the judiciary at Senja. Today, the Court of Justice has two courts divided into three judges. As a result of the previously mentioned constraints in the 2001 budget, it will be important to focus on other measures that can ensure faster criminal proceedings in the courts and in the criminal justice chain. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the fact that proposals have already been made for the conversion of procedures in the case of the service of judges in criminal matters. The proposal will mean that the judgments will be more rapid. In addition, proposals have been submitted at the hearing to introduce time-limits for initiating main negotiations and appeal proceedings with a target of less than 18 years or with a detention centre, as well as some restrictions on the right to freedom of defence. The same applies to proposals for an extension of the right to restrict the provision of evidence in criminal matters and to proposals for obtaining witnesses where it must be assumed that they will not attend the main proceedings. The Ministry proposes a rapid follow-up to these questions once the consultation round has been concluded and ended on 7 March this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1473	As a justice policy for several years, I have contributed to the focus on rapid criminal settlement. The fact that this has a disruptive effect on criminals, and not least young offenders, is a major consensus in the professional environment. The fact that the courts have now become a bottleneck in criminal proceedings because of a lack of resources cannot be accepted. The Minister of Justice has also stated that there are several cases this year. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that the courts receive the relatively small resources they are asking for, for example: in the revised budget, so that they can do the job imposed on them by the Ministry and the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1480	I am, as the representative Nymo is well aware, also very concerned about the rapid handling of criminal cases and the fact that the courts should be able to meet the targets set. At the moment, I and the courts must equally fully relate us to the budgetary framework adopted for 2001, and it – as I also mentioned in my reply – does not allow the strengthening of Senja's sorencies without going further at the expense of other courts. With regard to the issue of the revised national budget, the representative Nymo is probably aware that I cannot answer that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1489	Now that many judges have complained about the difficult situation in the courts, it is from a group that has great confidence and credibility and that we, as justice politicians, do not experience complaints. In addition to the sorenist in Senja, we see – yesterday’s Dagbladet – that a party colleague of the Council of State, the District Justice of Olav T. Laake in Stavanger, states that there is a crisis in Norwegian courts. We, as justice politicians, have also received clear messages from the Judiciary's Association that we must now do something. I understand and sympathise that the Council of State cannot now express what may come into the revised national budget. But I would strongly ask that the situation be taken seriously, so that the courts do not feel like a bottleneck in the criminal chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1494	I am not happy with the description that is now given from the various courts about the situation. I would like to stress that the budget adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn involved a budget that was in line with the budget of the last year. So this development has happened in spite of the fact that you've maintained the level from last year. But I can't now say anything more than that I'm not happy with the situation, and I'm going to follow it continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1502	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Recently, there have been indications that a joint accident commission has been established. The position of the Maritime Committee was held 15 months ago and it unanimously proposed the establishment of an independent marine casualty committee. When can it be expected that the Council of State will present a proposal following the suspension of the Maritime Committee and will the Council of State consider proposing the establishment of an independent Maritime Accident Commission?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1511	I intend to make a motion for a resolution following the Maritime Committee's proposal in NOU 1999:30 on the investigation of marine casualties, so that the Storting can deal with it during the session 2001-2002. I find it natural to follow up the Marine Committee's proposal to set up an independent marine casualty commission, which I consider to be a very interesting proposal, but the consideration of this issue has not come so far that I have taken a final position on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1518	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that she is in favour of the proposal. The establishment of a joint accident commission should be seen in the context of the previous questions raised by the Stortinge in relation to coastal preparedness. Would it not be appropriate to separate the responsibility for such a breakdown commission and apparatus to ensure the preparedness and safety of the sea, as is done in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1525	When I reply that I do not take a final position on the issue of setting up an independent accident commission, but consider it an interesting proposal, as I say, it is precisely because neither myself nor the Government have completed the Maritime Committee's proposal or the consultation round after that. Therefore, I would like to await the final conclusions of the questions raised by the representative Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1530	I thank you again for the answer. It is natural that there is an establishment with the necessary technical and operational competence which is entrusted to the rapporteur for a joint accident commission, and that it should not be responsible for coastal preparedness, etc., so that role clarification is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1537	The issue of roles is a topic that is now being discussed in many areas, not just on this, i.e. the relationship between owner and supervisor, supervision and regulator. These themes work with the Government in general. I see that the issue of the location of a disaster commission versus other types of responsibility for coastal preparedness and security needs to be seen in the slightly more general context, when the issue is precisely the sharing of roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1545	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘More municipalities are now increasing parental payments in kindergartens. Many parents are dismayed by this development, and it will mean that many people will have to say no to kindergartens. How can the Council of State influence municipalities to take greater responsibility for getting lower childcare rates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1554	Let me first say that the main goal of the Government in the kindergarten sector is to bring down the parental payment, so that kindergartens are really available to anyone who wants a place. I therefore share the representative's concern about the signals now coming from many municipalities. Such alarming feedback shows how important it is for the State and the municipality to take a joint power cap in the sector. For the treatment of St.meld. No 27 for 1999-2000, Kinderhage for the benefit of children and parents, the Government was asked to file a case on statutory obligations for municipalities to provide childcare facilities. This is now followed up by the Government. During the treatment of the nursery school report, Stortinget was also very concerned with the parental payment and presented a target on the distribution of expenditure between countries, municipalities and parents between 50 and 30 and 20 in 2005. In the 2001 budget, the Government started the state escalation. But unfortunately, we see that the means we have today are not enough, because despite large state transfers to reduce parental pay, prices are now being raised across the country. If we are to achieve our objectives, the municipalities are assumed to take their share of responsibility. The government therefore wants to take action to ensure that parents lower child care costs. The government wants an even stronger state bet on kindergartens, still focusing on our main goals of lower parental pay and place to everyone who wants it. The Labour Party believes that most children benefit from going to kindergarten, and we will ensure freedom of choice by offering enough space and by offering prices at a level that suits all wallets. We will consider a state regulation of the parental payment through e.g. the introduction of a maximum rate in the sector in any form or free core time. It is important that the state compensation then be set up in such a way that all equalising schemes, such as free spaces, siblings, income-graded rates, etc., are also taken into account in some form in a new scheme. It is an objective that this should be noticed already at next year's budget. The government's investment in more and cheaper kindergartens will come regardless of what happens to the cash support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1569	There is a positive signal from the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, both here today and for the 2002 budget, when it comes to childcare. It's right, as the Council of State says, that today's parental payment is too high in many municipalities. There is too much difference between the different municipalities in what they provide for kindergartens. Kindergartens are available for children, providing security and social inclusion. The kids like babysitting, and they learn a lot. I have a good chance to see that, as I am the grandmother of many who are very good at kindergarten. But one thing really annoys me: when we talk about kindergarten development, it's always seen as an economic problem. Very many municipal politicians say that there is a financial burden to be placed on the development of kindergartens. My question to the Council of State is, how are you going to be able to change this attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1578	I absolutely share the views of the representative of Laila Kaland. Our hope is that municipalities will see that investing in kindergartens can be very profitable. I know that the municipal sector needs quite a lot of new jobs in the years to come, and then we are totally dependent on being able to facilitate good supervision systems for children at the time when parents are at work. There is no doubt that the situation in this sector is serious, and we are following it very closely. We know that in some municipalities we are now commending ourselves, i.e. Some parents do not have the opportunity to receive an offer of kindergarten, because the price is high. We also have examples of municipalities that have made a good contribution to kindergartens, in the form of a low parental benefit and an almost fully developed sector. We are in the final phase of expanding this sector, and I hope that by 2003 and by 2005 we will be able to achieve the goals set by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1585	I want to come up with another question. There is a alarming need to get more women out in municipalities to take up work in the care sector and in the health sector. Then it's a little strange that some women say they have to take their children out of kindergarten because they can't afford to pay the expensive bets. Here I believe that the council must follow very closely when the state transfers are about to increase, so that the municipalities do not increase parental payments, so that they do not occur on the staff of the kindergartens, and so that they will still provide sibling moderation – for here I know that there are a number of municipalities that are deluded. All of this I think is an important signal in the work the Council of State is now going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1592	I just want to say that I fully share the representative's views and will focus on them in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1600	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘7 out of 10 municipalities respond in a study The municipal report has done that they have increased or will increase the parental payment in kindergartens this year. There are many places where there is an unacceptable amount of parental pay. The aim is for the State to cover 50 pst by 2005. of the costs, the municipalities 30 pst. and parents 20 pst. How will the Council of State achieve this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1609	I think we all share the concern of the representative Molvær Grimstad about the parental payment in kindergarten. I know that high rates block important groups from kindergartens. The main objective of the government in the kindergarten sector is therefore to reduce parental pay, so that kindergartens are actually available to anyone who wants it. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Molvær Grimstad have come to the fore on the issue of overprices for kindergartens. I would like to remind the representative Molvær Grimstad that it was the Workers' Party that was the driver to set up the objective of a cost-sharing where the state's share would be 50 pst. by 2005 at the latest. In the 2001 budget, the Government started the state escalation. Unfortunately, we see that the instruments we have today are not enough. As I said in a previous answer: we here totally depended on playing with the municipalities if we're going to achieve these goals. As mentioned in my answer to questions from the representative Laila Kaland, the government wants an even stronger state investment in kindergartens. We want to focus on our main goals of lower parental payment and place to everyone who wants it. The Labour Party believes that most children benefit from going to kindergarten, and we will ensure freedom of choice by offering enough space and by offering prices at a level that suits all wallets. We will consider a state regulation of the parental payment through e.g. the introduction of a maximum rate in the sector in any form or free core time. Our goal is that this should be noticed as early as next year's budget. The government's investment in more and cheaper kindergartens is, as I said, independent of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1627	I thank the Council of State for your answer. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to get full child care coverage and a parental payment that is acceptable. This is why the central government provided a nursery message that outlined a number of goals to achieve this. The kindergarten message continues to work with the current government. In Stortinget, there was a broad agreement to increase the state bill to 50 pst, and that the municipalities would have to pay 30 pst. and parents 20 pst. And if you have a thing to do, you're going to get a price down monthly. But what worries me is that after this budget was adopted, there has been an increase in kindergarten prices across the country. Seven out of ten municipalities have already increased prices. That's why I asked the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs earlier today if the government shouldn't bring more money already in the revised budget and not wait until next year when one sees that development is out of line with what there's a great deal of support for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1636	Of course, it is a dilemma that when we increase the state share, we experience in most of the municipalities of the country that the parental payment increases. But then we have to ask the question: is it so that if we put more money into the revised national budget, will the parental payment be reduced? My point is that we have to use other types of instruments to get a solution that makes the municipalities take their share seriously. It's of the things the Government is now working on, and we'll make concrete proposals to the Storting about it. We're going to evaluate different solutions, but I think with what the Biggest has decided against this sector, it's wrong to think that only we're doing the one, so we're reaching the goal. That's exactly what the representative Molvær Grimstad refers to in his question. We see a worrying development, and we need to assess different types of instruments to stop that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1641	I thank you again for your answer. It is good that the Government assesses different tools to achieve this goal. But what's my point is that if we increase the state support for kindergartens in the revised national budget, I'm sure it goes for kindergarten purposes. One problem today is that statistics are too old in relation to the amount of actual expenditure actually covered by the government. The latest public statistics are from 1998. We know that the payroll in the kindergartens has increased, so the size of the state's share today, if the state covers 40 p.m., is somewhat uncertain. Maybe it's about 35 pst. It claims some kindergartens. My challenge to the Council of State is whether the Government will increase the government budget already in the revised budget, which is the tool we have today that will help the fastest to ensure that kindergarten prices do not rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1650	For the first time in many years, considerable funding has been provided to the nursery sector, with an increased government grant of 2 pst. In addition, we have put in a full price compensation for this sector. Nevertheless, we just feel that the parental payment is increasing. That's why I think we have to be honest and say that we have to come up with an instrument as well as that we're increasing the government transfer, and that's of the things the government estimates. But then I also want to say that it is exciting to see what the Christian People's Party will add to the revised budget, because now we know that they will both increase the amount of cash support for each child receiving cash support, and they will add significantly more money into the revised budget. So it's exciting to see what the final sum is from the Christian People's Party in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1661	‘In the context of the action plan against gender mutilation, the responsibility of health professionals for alerting if girls are found to be circumcised was established. There are several professional groups that come into contact with persons in such a way that they can be detected by switching, e.g.: tollers in the context of body inspection. Do customs officers today have orders to notify such cases, and if not, what will the Council of State do to ensure that such reporting takes place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1668	The representative Frank Willy Larsen asks a question within an area that is both sensitive and difficult. Gender impairment was emphatically put on the agenda through TV 2's revelations. After this I have received many letters and met groups where this practice is practised. In addition, I have visited Gothenburg and gained insight into Swedish experience in the work against sexual mutilation. My impression is that the Norwegian law prohibiting sexual mutilation has been little known, especially among groups that are most affected. Today, I believe that there are very few people who are not aware that sexual mutilation is prohibited in Norway, and that this also applies if the child is included in the implementation of gender mutilation in another country. In my opinion, a lot has happened in this area in a short time. During the work of the Government Action Plan, we have cooperated closely with a number of environments where women themselves are circumcised. They are currently working together on measures to combat this practice. I mention this as part of the answer to the question because I want us both to be clear in our distance from this cruel act that a sexual mutilation is, while maintaining confidence in the environments that have tradition of this practice. Customs officers who detect genital mutilation in the context of body screening should inform about this. Paragraphs 6 to 4 of the Child Protection Act require all public authorities, on their own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, to provide information on the protection of children when there is reason to believe that a child is being abused at home or other forms of serious care failure. Tollers have, under the Customs Act, Section 8 the obligation of professional secrecy concerning private matters that are discovered in connection with checks. The Customs Act provides for the opening of exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy, e.g.: as a notification to the police, where there are serious grounds for suspecting and a certain degree of seriousness, see: § 8 nr. 2 (f). The same applies to notification to others, e.g. for the protection of children. This is stated in Section 8 No. 2(g). When assessing whether action is to be taken under the Child Protection Act and, in that case, what action is to be taken, the best interests of the child are to be taken into consideration. Section 4-1. Therefore, whether or not child protection measures are to be introduced after a completed sexual mutilation will depend on the child’s situation and needs in the individual case. It is the child’s situation at the time of the decision that is crucial. Gender impairment may have caused emotional and mental harm to the child as well as physical harm. A notification to the protection of children will take into account two considerations. One is to monitor and monitor the child’s help needs. The second is to prevent other siblings from undergoing sexual mutilation. I am primarily concerned with caring for the child in this situation, and it is best for the child's protection to be connected and followed up on the matter further. But a report to the police must also be assessed. Sweden, which has had a separate law against sex mutilation for many years, has not yet had a case brought to the courts. It tells us something about where the Swedes have put the emphasis in their efforts to combat this practice. While we can hope that the Norwegian law is now well known and will in itself prevent sexual harassment, it should in no way be seen as a sleeping law, and that no one is affected by it in Norway. This is a signal that is just as important as law enforcement. Here, as in the case of child protection, there must be some discretion. If a family comes to Norway for the first time and it is discovered that the child is sexually mutilated, it is completely unreasonable that this family should be hit by the Norwegian law and reported to the police. It is quite different if a family living in Norway has deliberately taken the child out of the country and performed a sexual mutilation. It must be taken seriously and reported as it is. In further work on following up the case, it will be important for the police to take account of the child and the overall situation of the family. I assume that there will soon be a cooperation between child protection and the police in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1689	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and thoughtful response. I see it as well that the Council of State supports me in terms of the intention of my question, namely that if something is discovered under a control, it should be reported. When the Council of State expresses support for the content of my question, as it was now done, you can imagine that there might be tips for example. The customs authorities that girls are leaving the country or are returning from abroad where this intervention has been carried out. Does the Council of State consider that suspected circumcision may be the cause of a control?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1696	I think we should be careful to say that we should ask the customs specifically to check the girls based on suspicion of intersection. Customs officers who detect sexual mutilation in their work should clearly inform about this. We're going to hope that's a marginal problem. We don't have an overview of how many girls are being physically inspected by customs, but the probability that these girls have also recently been sexually mutilated, I think is minimal. It will be important that we now focus on long-term and communicative measures to overcome the cross-section of women. We put up a broad action plan in our action plan, and I must say that I am very pleased that the representative addresses this particular issue, which has not been a topic we have mentioned in our work. So we'll follow this closely up in the work we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1703	I have no illusion that there are simple solutions to such a sensitive and difficult question as this. She may even say, as the Council of State says, that the issue is marginal. But the point is, of course, that one case is one case too much. What I've wanted to highlight with this question is simply that a society needs to use all the tools it has available to stop this practice. I think what we seem to get to now is going to have strong general preventive effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1708	I want to say that I share the representative's view, and one case is one case too much. We hope that we can have confidence, insight and good dialogue with the different environments, so that we can stop intersecting in the long term. We know that it is possible to achieve this through a targeted and long-term work. We've had a project in Senegal under the auspices of UNICEF, where we actually managed to eradicate the interception in five years, and my hope is that we will also stop this upheaval against children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1716	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The concession price is in the year 11,59 øre/kWh and was in 2000 10,84 øre/kWh. These prices are fixed by the Ministry each year and are to express the average self-cost of power generation plants in Norway. In recent years, concession power prices have been above market prices in terms of power. Does the Council of State think that a concession price of more than 10 øre/kWh may be an expression of the real cost of production, when the industry can present greater surplus than ever before?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1725	The price of power has fallen steadily since 1996. This is strongly due to the high rainfall in the four years from 1997 to 2000, and the mild winters. The average spot price in 2000 was 10.3 ø/kWh. The average spot price for the period 1996-2000 was 14.4 kWh. The average concession price in the same period was 11.3 øre/kWh. We have now had a colder winter, with the result that the average spot price in January and February was 19.4 øre/kWh. Based on the forward prices, the annual average is expected to be about 18 kWh. The concession price for 2001 is 11,59 øre/kWh. The revenue generated by the municipalities will vary according to the price of the market. The economic impact of the concession power regime must be seen over several years. When comparing the price of concession power with the price in the spot market, the concession power in the years 1996-2000 has on average conferred an economic advantage on municipalities of 200 million. kr every year. This is due to large annual variations, ranging from an advantage of nearly DKK 1 billion in 1996 to a loss of about EUR 1 billion in 1996. One hundred million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Using a forward price, the concession power of this year can give municipalities an economic advantage of approximately DKK 1⁄2 billion. Municipalities can stabilise concessional income in different ways, for example: by selling the power in the future market. The concession power must also be seen in connection with the fact that municipalities have tax revenues from the electricity companies that are very stable from year to year. Natural resource taxes are completely independent of changes in power prices and wages. The property tax is influenced to a small extent by low power prices, as a lower floor is placed on the taxi basis. The concession price shall reflect self-cost in the power plant. The cost-of-self price includes a reasonable return on capital invested in production equipment. This is the way it has been since the concession laws were introduced. This means that the power companies may have surplus even if the market price in some years is lower than the concession price. In 1999, the power industry had a surplus after tax of approximately $6.1 billion. There's a drop of about 17 pst. from the previous year. Even if the excess is in the billions class, one has to think about that there are very large amounts of capital to be remunerated. In 1999, the production plants had recorded a return on equity of 4.1 pst. It is low when considering the risk associated with the ignition of producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1740	Why has the law made a concessional arrangement? It is because municipalities and county councils should have the possibility to have their share of the value creation and exploitation of local resources, enshrined in the law of the first concession laws around the turn of the century, confirmed in the United Kingdom in 1990, as a lasting advantage. So what's the situation today? A legal good is for some municipalities turned to a loss. It's not up to everyone to assume power because of a high price level. One of the reasons for this is that after the force tax reform in 1996, there has been a lack of understanding of what is to be included in the cost of self-sufficiency or production costs. Before 1996, taxes were fixed and independent of the economy of electricity undertakings. Now the excess tax is taken into account in the calculation basis. Will the Council of State look closer to the basis of calculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1747	I believe that the power concession scheme is a good arrangement for those municipalities that have the possibility to benefit from it. And I haven't noticed anything eager for that scheme to go out. But then one has to see several years less than one — a few years the spot market on power is very low; the second years it is quite high. Then, of course, the ignition of the municipalities will vary depending on it. With regard to the basis of calculation, one has changed the tax regime in this area at regular intervals, most recently in the current year. Now we don't have any concrete plans to review these rules – we think one has found the balance needed in this area. On the basis of this question, of course, I can look at the issue again, but it is available on a daily basis. today no concrete plans for a re-examination of this tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1754	The centre party is occupied by the value this should be for the community. We share the opinion of the Council of State that the scheme is good and should continue. But then it is that when it relates to the basis of calculation, the fact that the excess tax is collected means that self-cost is increasing. The predecessor of the State Council Aksensen, Marit Arnstad, warned the Stortinget twice in the form of letters that she would see closer to this issue. The Councils here refer to the 2000 example. I can say that for the municipality that I come from, Hjelmeland, this one means NOK 500,000. For other municipalities, that means more, because some mean less. I am pleased that the Council of State is right to be positive, and I would strongly urge him to look at this issue again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1761	As I said in my answer, this is one of several schemes to ensure that these natural resources are also used for the benefit of the host municipality. And I'm going to say that that's the case that these schemes – each and every one of them – contribute to a good part of the value creation in this industry getting a local recipient. It's a system that I support, and I'm glad it's like this. So one at regular intervals has gone through the tax rules in this area. Now the power companies are in a completely new situation, where they have to compete with others, both Norwegian power producers and not least international power producers. What you've done is you've tried to find a balance between this new situation in which the power companies are in, and their local authorities need a stable income in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1771	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Ecological agriculture has been identified as an important field of activity and the demand for organic food is increasing. The Government has called for the strengthening of organic farming. At the same time, Norway's high school of agriculture will cancel the main courses in organic farming. Students who have started this study must now continue on their own. An extra burden is that all information is in English. What can the Council of State do to prevent that main course from being stopped?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1780	The size has joined the objective of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, at 10 pst. the agricultural area shall be converted into organic land over a 10-year period, subject to positive market developments. It's an ambitious goal. It requires considerable efforts and efforts from many teams, including in research and education. Norway’s agricultural high school has a national responsibility for higher education and basic research in its disciplines, and organic farming and agroecology are a natural part of this. This field has grown gradually, from the first introductory course in organic farming in the mid-1980s to today's offer with an introductory, intermediate and basic course. This three-part offer in organic farming has existed since the mid-1990s. The search has been fairly even, and there are between six and nine students who have taken the main course each year. In autumn 2000, NLH also started a new English-speaking master's programme in agroecology in cooperation with agricultural universities in the other Nordic countries. The interest in organic farming is growing among students. In recent years, less than 30 students have taken the introductory course annually. This spring there are 48 students who have enrolled for the exam. This course will be arranged as normal, and a large part of these students will probably continue at intermediate and primary level. Norway’s high school of agriculture is also aimed at providing both the main course and the other courses in the next year of study. I agree that it gives a negative signal externally when Norway's agricultural high school has now cancelled a main course in an area which is both a priority of the institution itself and which has received a lot of attention in the media in the discussion on animal health and food quality recently. The cancellation of the main course in spring is not the result of a deliberate dwindling or liquidation of the study offer at the university, but is primarily due to a temporary staffing problem in the subject area of the institute. The three students who have still enrolled in the main course in spring will have the exam completed, but have been told that they must take the course as a self-study and deliver the holiday task. Of course, it is not satisfactory for these students to receive such a poor offer. I have therefore contacted NLH and asked the university to consider what can be done to ensure teaching resources and guidance in this situation, possibly in cooperation with other universities in Norway or the Nordic countries. I therefore expect NLH to solve the problem for these students. I expect the university to take its role in higher agricultural education and research seriously and to prioritise organic farming high in the future. Norway's high school of agriculture educates most advisers, teachers and researchers in the agricultural sector and will be a central player if we are to achieve the 10 pst goal of the Government and the Stortinge. organic agricultural area by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1793	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I must say is satisfactory in terms of the objectives of the Council of State and the Government, for precisely in these times with so much talk about animal diseases and the fact that there are animal diseases right around the corner – at least both in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe – this has been very up-to-date with the view of how we operate agriculture. Then it's not enough just to have a word on a paper about what we want to do, but there are measures and strategies that are important. Therefore, I would like to expand the question a little bit and ask what strategy the Council of State has in order to build up competence from the bottom of, not just at the university level. In order to get a job at the university, we're dependent on the lower levels. What is the strategy of the Ministry to stimulate more organic farming in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1798	We are now perhaps moving into the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Agriculture. It is he who has the overall strategy of increasing organic agricultural production in Norway. But the education part and part of what's going on on the research side belong to my department. I am pleased to note that the School of Agriculture actually has a growth in the number of students taking the exams in this area, and that there is a great deal of interest in the field among the students. But it's certainly true, as the representative Tingelstad says, that interest has to come to everything in high school, because that's where the foundation is laid in terms of what you want to apply for. If this can be done by looking at the composition of courses or the content of some of the professional courses, we will get back to it, but all good suggestions will be received with thanks. If we are to ensure that this is an important area in the future, we must ensure the recruitment of competent professionals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1805	I noticed that the Council of State underlined the role of the Minister of Agriculture and the role of the Minister of Education. I must say in all modesty that I am also aware of this, but I believe that the Government has a common policy and a common strategy. There is nothing wrong with me asking a question in the extension of this to the Minister of Agriculture, but I would like to ask the Council of State directly: is this a topic that will now be raised by the Minister of Education to the Council of State, so that we can really speed up this by building skills in organic farming? Can this also be reflected in the general policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1812	Organic farming and the increased production of organically produced foods and also access for consumers in shops have been stressed several times by the Minister of Agriculture. He has also announced that he wants to focus specifically on food safety and organic production of food in the context of the agricultural preparation for spring. In this regard, it can certainly be natural for him and I to take a round to discuss what kind of consequences such a bet will have for the field of education. I expect the Minister of Agriculture to come back to that if he thinks there is an increased need for that kind of competence. At least I promise that I will be willing to help ensure that Norwegian consumers receive safe, good and safe food.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1817	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1831	Training institutions have a treatment tradition that is as old as the history of rehabilitation. It started in the eastern Mediterranean with methods consisting of different types of baths, not least a gypsy bath. Vegetarian or other special diets were also used. The methods came to Norway in the mid-1900s and formed the basis for the many spas in our country. Some time later the convalescent homes were also established. From the beginning, these had almost no offer of active treatment. Both types of institutions changed as the value of active treatment and training was increasingly better documented for many disorders. In 1992, the Ministry of Social Affairs reorganised the spas and convalescent homes into ‘training institutions’. They were grouped into group 1, usually former spa, and group 2, former convalescent homes, depending on the standard of buildings, e.g. whether there was a hot water pool. There was also a great deal of emphasis on which health professionals and the professional expertise they represented. Both groups should provide short-term residence for medical, physical and other relevant treatment and training. Training institutions have an important task, especially in relation to chronically ill people. The purpose of the stay is to improve the patient’s level of function, prevent relapse and improve the possibility of self-care. In order to contribute to stay, treatment must be essential for the patient’s disease and functioning. Many of the training institutions are driven by private involvement and idealism from individuals and organisations. They have been a positive and important complement to the public offer. When we dealt with the rehabilitation message almost two years ago, it was clarified that it is important that the institutions have good professional quality, breadth of supply and good geographical spread. It was clarified that they must be included in a comprehensive health service. The Group 1 and Group 2 divisions shall fall away. In order to create professionally good institutions, a good and predictable economy is necessary. An overall committee asked the Government to submit proposals for a new financing mechanism which ensured future operations and good quality at training institutions. The financial instrument is under conversion. As the Minister for Health knows, we have had a temporary solution for 2000. The Social Committee has received many signals that the economy is very difficult for many institutions. That's why we added 30.85 million. kr in the year's budget, so that the rates of the contributions could be increased. Many institutions complain that these funds have not been reached by the institutions. Is this right? I have noticed that in an answer to a written question from Svein Ludvigsen in February this year, the Council of State says that for the current year the budget is not approved. 2711, entry 75 Training institutions, basis for an increase in contributions rates beyond 2 p.m. The institutions claim that they have only received an increase of 1.34 pst. average. How can this be related? The same letter explains the proportions that are now the same for all patients. The Christian People's Party sees it as very positive that we now have a harmonisation of peculiarities. This has resulted in lower costs for most users. But for a group of patients, especially chroniclers, even $190 per. day will be a lot. It is therefore important to work for the introduction of a self-participation 2 to protect these patients. I expect the Council of State to follow up a unanimous decision on this matter. The conversion of the financial instrument has led to the setting of a contribution rate for each institution on the basis of its revenue for the previous year. This may seem very unfortunate in relation to, for example: maintenance and job vacancies. This also creates problems for those institutions that are under construction. NOPI has calculated that the government contribution rates for the training institutions are on average NOK 717 per year. 24 hours. In addition, self-payment comes from patients. The CatoCenter receives a contribution of NOK 1880, no specialty for the patients. The four special health institutions Beitostølen and Valnesfjord health sports centre, the Hernes Institute and the Attführungscenter in Rauland receive NOK 1576 per year. 24 hours, no part of it. Rehabilitation institutions linked to the ISF scheme receive NOK 1507, no excess. It is easy to understand that such a difference seems unreasonable. Several training institutions are postponing the recruitment of professional staff, postponing the required maintenance and some fears that they will have to cease operations. The Christian People's Party believes that a long-term plan on economic operating conditions needs to be drawn up as soon as possible on the basis of a agreed method of calculation which determines the costs of institutions. What plans does the Council of State have, and does he agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1867	I share the representative Woie Duesund's assessment of the training institutions as a valuable element in the overall health service provision. The Ministry is working on a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, as requested by the Stortinget in June 1999 for the treatment of St.meld. No 21 for 1998-99, Responsibility and Meisting. Towards a holistic rehabilitation policy. The objective is to include the strategy in the 2002 draft budget. The clarification of the future role and funding of training institutions will be part of this strategy. In addition, the Ministry is working on a new common regulation for training establishments and health sports centres, which will clarify the professional requirements of these institutions. The aim of this work is to clarify the role of training institutions and health sports centres in addition to the rehabilitation activities of specialist health services. For the current year, Stortinget has granted 480.65 million. kr over cap. 2711, item 75 Training institutions. The final allocation for 2000 for this item was 417.7 million. kr. So there's a growth in this item from 2000 to 2001 of 62.95 million. kr, or about 15 pst. in one year. The figures for 2000 showed a consumption of 423,8 million. kr in this item, which implies an additional consumption of 6,1 million. which must also be covered within the year's allocation. The background for this is that the consumption related to stay at the training institutions in November and, in particular, December was significantly higher than the average consumption in the previous year. This shows, among other things: the exact forecasting of consumption is difficult due to varying monthly coatings. The consumption related to residence at the training institutions represented approximately 409 million. kr of the total consumption of the item. I can mention that during the period 1996–2001, the allocation of this item has increased by 133.95 million. kr, or 39 pst. Adjusted for Consumer Price Index, the increase is 100 million. kr, or 29 pst. The conversion of the own-payments scheme when staying at the institutions has resulted in the maximum balance of all stays being set at DKK 190 per person. 24 hours. The average equity ratio for the conversion was estimated at 220 kroner in 2000. The size joined this conversion. The costs of an average reduction in excess of NOK 220 to NOK 190 per person. daily was calculated at 20 MIU. kr. Institutions have been provided with compensation for the reduction in their own-payment income through a corresponding increase in the rate of contributions from the social security system. The appropriations are assumed to cover this and, in addition, an increase in the contribution rate of 2 pst. The costs are estimated at approximately 452 million. kr based on the level of activity of the previous year and also the structure of the coating. The allocation of this item 75 shall also cover the operational costs of the Montebello Centre, which offers courses to cancer patients, and contributions to the cost of blind and partially sighted institutions. In 2001, this overall will amount to about 11.5 million. kr. The size has requested that the operation at the Red Cross Haugland Rehabilitation Centre be ensured until the future status has been clarified. This will require additional appropriations for 2001, as in 1999 and 2000, which will also have to be covered by this item. Last year, the promotion of depositor Olav Gunnar Ballo was awarded the following Document No. Proposal 8 : ‘1. The Storting asks the Government to contribute to a debt restructuring at CatoCenteret.2. The Government is asked to include the CatoCenter in the public reimbursement schemes applicable to similar special health institutions with government grants.’;» This proposal was rejected by Stortinget. But in St.prp. No 25 for 2000-2001, on changes in appropriations under the national budget for 2000, it was briefed that the department would pay 3.1 million. SEK to CatoCenter for 2000, and that the Ministry assessed the purchase of services by CatoCenter in 2001 corresponding to up to 30 places. At its budgetary procedure, the Committee expressed the following opinion: ‘Further, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, have noted that it is also announced that the Ministry will assess the purchase of services at the CatoCenter in 2001 corresponding to up to 30 places. In this context, the use of funds allocated under Chapters is considered. 2600 Social security benefits for the purchase of health care for sick persons and that there is room to cover part of the expenditure under Chapter. 2711 item 75 Training institutions. The majority take this into account.’ Expenditure on the purchase of 30 seats at the CatoCenter will amount on an annual basis to approx. Twenty million. kr. Some of these costs will have to be financed from this item, but co-financing from cap is assumed. Two thousand The introduction of a special allowance for residence at the CatoCenter will also be assessed, in line with the own-payment of the other training institutions. As has been explained, the allocation is on top. 2711, heading 75, in substance, bound by the purpose adopted by the Storing. It may be mentioned that one of the institutions has objected to the basis for the calculation of its contribution rate. There will be a rapid clarification in relation to this institution. The information obtained by the Ministry shows that the occupancy rate varies considerably. This suggests that some institutions can increase the rate of use resulting in a better economy. It is clear that the conversion of the self-payment scheme has reduced the freedom of action of institutions by allowing them to set daily prices themselves. In the context of the introduction of a fixed proportion, the average equity ratio for 2000 was estimated to be approximately. 220 kroner per year. 24 hours. The cost of compensating for a lower proportion was estimated at 20 million. kr. New and more detailed information from the individual training institution has shown that in 2000 the average proportion was well 250 kroner per year. 24 hours. Thus, the cost of compensating for a lower proportion is about 40 million. kr, i.e. Twenty million. kr more than calculated in the 2001 draft budget. Compensation for lower propensity of 40 million. kr is included in the cost of covering estimated 2001 contributions of 452 million. kr. The development of consumption in this item will be closely monitored in the future and the size will be kept informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1918	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am particularly pleased that a common regulation on professional requirements is being worked on. Otherwise, the answer might not have been as clear as I would have liked. On the part of the majority, it was important to clarify in the budget that CatoCenter was welcomed, but that it should not be at the expense of the training institutions that already exist. Therefore, it was so important that expenses for the purchase of up to 30 places were mainly to be covered over the cover. 2600 Social security funds — for the purchase of health care services for the sick. In addition, it was assessed, as also referred to by the Council of State, ‘whether there is room to cover part of the expenditure under Chapters. 2711 item 75 Training institutions’. So, first of all, the expenditure was to be covered by the chapter of the Social Security Agency, then possibly above the item of the training institutions, which increased by 30.85 million. kr more than the government proposed. Then it is strange that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health sent a letter to all county councils on 3 January of this year, following the adoption of the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, where the opposite is true, that up to 10 400 24 hours at the CatoSenteret will be covered by the social security budget, preferably above cap. 2711 item 75 Training institutions. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is not a follow-up to a majority decision. Does the Minister of Health agree? Many training establishments are struggling with a great deal of deficit and have experienced a worsening situation after the Ministry has made available the budget for this year. New reimbursement rates have led to some institutions, such as North Norway's Kurbad, considering closure. In a written reply to Svein Ludvigsen to ensure the offer in the north, the Minister of Health said that the department is in dialogue with Nord-Norges Kurbad on specific issues related to their economic situation. What has happened to this case? In the context of the budget, the Committee was made up of the best possible geographical distribution for the establishment of new training institutions. Reference was made to LHL, which wants to establish a regional/national centre of competence for heart rehabilitation at Røros and in East Agder. Can these count on a speedy approval? The Committee was positive. My last question concerns future organisation. What is the place where the training institutions intend to fill if the specialist health service is transferred to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1937	I believe that the funding provided for the CatoCenter should be in line with what was explained when the matter was dealt with by the Stortinget in connection with the budget proposal that I quoted instead. If there is confusion in relation to it in the letter from which it was quoted here, I will ensure that at least it is brought in accordance with what the Stortinge provided during the treatment. Moreover, I believe that the funding here is not at the expense of the financing arrangements that apply to the other training institutions, insofar as this is a supplement and within the framework that I have now mentioned, which amounts to 452 million. kr, and is provided for as a continuation and compensation for a change in the proportion of the balances and, as a result, a reversal of the financing of the training institutions that were also previously included in the scheme. It is true that the economy of several of these institutions is difficult. It has been so far also in the past, and although freedom of action has been limited in terms of the institutions' ability to transfer their costs to patients in this conversion, it is not that all the financial problems that arise are the result of the conversion of the financial mechanism that has been in place. There are also other reasons why they are in an economically difficult situation. With regard to the special situation at Nord-Norges Kurbad, the Department has been given the information about the economy and economic development of the institution necessary to assess the reasons why the institution has these financial problems, and we have to assess what it is natural to do from that point of view. It's an assessment that's made now, and that's not finished, but that I'll come back to. The said competence centres at Røros and in East Agder, to which it was referred, are being treated, and I can't say more about it now than that I will come back to Stortinget as soon as the treatment is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1946	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1949	Training institutions are a small but very important part of our health care system. Norwegian patients are offered a completely necessary offer when they have completed their treatment at the hospital and are to be trained after, for example, a heart operation, hip operation, a complicated fracture, a cancer operation, etc. These offers shall include Norwegian patients. Although we have many great rehabilitation units at our public hospitals, the training institutions represent a sensible division of labour between the public and a part of the health care community, which is largely financed through public funds and the patients' own payments. There is reason to believe that the vast majority of institutions succeed in improving the quality of their services. A challenge is to ensure a better geographically distributed offer. Today, the picture is such that some parts of the country have many places, while others have few. This doesn't give our patients an equivalent offer. There is a need to extend the offer where coverage is low and perhaps in the long term reduce the number of sites where there is overcapacity today. However, the major challenge now lies in the economic difficulties of many of the institutions, the size of which, in the context of decisions relating to the rehabilitation notification, has asked for a funding system for the institutions which, firstly, ensures the institutions a long-term and well-functioning basis, and, secondly, reduces the patient's ownership in areas where these have been unacceptably high. The latter was largely implemented by the Government's budget proposal this year, to which the Stortinget joined. However, the many requests that have been addressed to the Storting for many years, and not least the last year, have shown that there is no balance between the financing of the operations of the institutions and the tasks that these institutions wish to undertake. I think it's important that we don't get an uncontrolled closure of good institutions because of economic conditions. I am pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Health about the future operation of the institutions. I could imagine asking a question to the Council of State: does the Council of State see any possibility that the institutions could take advantage of the approved places by the number of days on an annual basis, so that institutions can take the tops when needed? It will also be able to provide institutions with a more stable economic base. The background to the question is that patients can fluctuate and not remain stable. Among other things, holidays and festivals represent a period during which one cannot expect institutions to benefit from their capacity of 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1964	This interpellance focuses on the economy of the training institutions. Unfortunately, this is necessary, because many of the institutions are in a difficult situation, including: because of the effects of the conversion of the payment system. Training institutions are an important and valuable part of our healthcare system that means a lot to many patients. In particular, two groups need these institutions: patients who need training for disease or injury, and patients with chronic diseases, who will often need repeated stays to prevent or inhibit the further development of their disease. Different groups will have different needs for equipment and treatment, and this may lead to different costs for institutions. It is therefore difficult to establish fair payment rates. But there is a broad political consensus that patients' self-payment should be equal and low. It is therefore all the more important that the public submit a financial instrument that is fair and fair, as the inter-pellant has pointed out. Daily rates from various institutions we are familiar with indicate that this is not the case today and that the system should be changed. I noticed that the Council of State pointed to increased funds in this year's budget to the training institutions. He must do that, but the addition was not the government, but the Storting that did. In this context, and in addition to what the interpellant has presented, I would like to point out that the training institutions claim that immediately after the presentation of the budget, they received an oral confirmation from the Ministry that compensation for the reduction of patients' prowess, a total of 20 million. kr, be posted on top. 2752 item 70 Reimbursement of self-payment. They also received the same feedback from the Social Committee. However, following the release by the Department of the new contribution rates for the institutions for 2001, they have learned that the 20 million. kr is posted on cap. 2711 item 75, i.e. training institutions. In view of this, training institutions feel somewhat disinformed, and this is perceived as problematic. Training institutions are important. They are also vulnerable, and it is important that the conversion of the payment system now does not remove the economic base of those institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1979	It is commendable that this interpellation debate is going on, because there are very many of our training institutions that are currently in a very difficult economic situation. Most of our training institutions provide professional rehabilitation for different patient groups that are fully aligned with the rehabilitation services provided in Norwegian public hospitals. Of course, I am pleased that we got equal proportions at all training centres, but paradoxically, this similarity has led some of the training institutions to a hopeless economic situation. This is because, in the past, it was possible to increase the balance of payments in order to correct the lack of currency coverage in order to obtain a budgetary balance. On average, most training institutions currently have an approved course price of between DKK 600 and 800 per day, which is very low and does not in any way cover the necessary operating costs to maintain the quality of the offers. This is very worrying, and I hope the department is aware of this situation. Yes, the situation is so serious that I believe that the ministry must do something about this already in the forthcoming revised national budget. The waiting lists at the training institutions are long, and this citizen that the need for rehabilitation of different patient groups is also increasing. Although the training institutions are largely concentrated in the Eastern region, the total rehabilitation will be affected if some of the institutions have to give up in the current operating term. Personally, I think it is reasonable to establish a financing mechanism for the training institutions in line with the DRG reimbursement currently provided to hospitals' own rehabilitation departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e1992	I think it is very gratifying to note that everyone has expressed such a positive opinion about the training institutions, because that has not always been the case. It is therefore commendable that Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has promoted this interpellation, which allows everyone to express their joy at the existence of these institutions. But, as the Minister of Health pointed out in his first speech, there has been a sharp increase in the budget over the last few years. I don't know if I misinterpreted him, but I felt that there was a small undertone there saying that you can't say that these are coming out so badly, as much increase as they've got – almost 30 and up to 40 pst., a little as you see it. But it's been absolutely necessary, I mean, with this increase. And the Minister of Health also showed that there is a need not only for the increase that has taken place, but also for a further increase because rehabilitation has been under-estimated in public health budgets. It's always been said that it's very important, but you haven't given the basis that patients who need it can get the rehabilitation treatment they actually need. I would also like to say that it is difficult to understand the difference that we still operate with in the budget between the training institutions on the one hand and the so-called health sports centres on the other. This is, I think, a result of an artificial historical coincidence, that someone has entered one budget and another on another. This should be sorted out, and I think it was interesting that the interpellant pulled out just this, and said it was unreasonable that the excesses of the training institutions are not left at the healthports centres. I could therefore be tempted to ask why the inter-pellant and her party did not support the proposal that was being promoted in the budget position in the autumn, where we pointed to this and asked the Government to consider the same proportion of patients at these institutions as for patients at the other training institutions. And then finally. The CatoCenter is a great addition. But like other crops, it creates problems. And especially when the ministry, at least until today, has found – unlike what they said in the proposition, to which we agreed – that it would not be financed by Chapter 2600 of the Social Security Budget, but by Training Institutions. It's clear that it's going to be even narrower when more people are going to divide a cake that's already too small, so I hope the Minister of Health will sort this out, so that this situation ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2003	Training and rehabilitation institutions are an important part of a comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation service in our healthcare system. That is also a good example, I think – and it should still be – of the interaction that can be between private and public actors in our healthcare system. But it's clear that it's hard to find the good model for it to be predictable, a system that we can continue and feel is sustainable for both parties. I am pleased with what the Minister of Health said about the work on professional criteria, and that on the basis of this, we can get approval schemes based on professional and treatment qualities in relation to what we now have with a group 1 and group 2 classification, which was also about the previous speaker, is somewhat more random. Last summer, there was a working group which gave its opinion on a new financing mechanism for training institutions, and there is no doubt that there was disagreement between the representatives of the training institutions, represented by two representatives of the NOPI, and the others of this working group. But I hope that arrangements can be found here that both parties can accept, and that we will get agreed investigation and calculation methods for how this reimbursement should be. So a little bit to what the Minister of Health was about when it was about the extra 35 million. kr to which the majority of the Stortinget received, divided by 4,15 million. NOK 78, to give a price adjustment to four special institutions, and the remaining SEK 30,85 million. kr on heading 75 on cap. 2711. It was a prerequisite, as I perceived it at the time, and as we tried to emphasize it too, that this was an additional appropriation that would go to already approved institutions. It also states in the position that the Minister of Health did not refer to: ‘This majority shall be subject to the widest possible geographical distribution of the authorised offers.’;» This is related to the additional 30.85 million allocation. kr. That's a total of 480.65 million. kr to these approved institutions. From that point of view, if there is no room when this is done to cover the CatoCenter share, the funds to be used there should go over the cap. 2600 Social security funds, for the purchase of health care services for sick persons. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State come back with an adjustment and, if necessary, additional appropriations in the revised national budget to adjust these things, including: the imbalance between the pros and the calculation of the pros and cons, which is a gap of 40 million. kr instead of 20 mill. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2022	The situation in which we are now, where it is obvious that a number of training institutions have too little money and receive too little contributions, is a situation that has arisen without it looking like the Storting wanted it. The inclusion of the Cato Centre must naturally lead to increased appropriations linked to the training institutions and, as some have pointed out here, it seems natural that the revised national budget should address this issue. I expect that most of the members of the social committee have had visits from various training institutions. I've had that too. The description you get from some is very dramatic. For example, in the case of Nord-Norges Kurbad, the economic situation is described so that they will not be able to live with it over time without serious problems for the further operation. Based on the figures I've also received, it seems that the rates of contributions applicable to the various institutions are either reasonably random, or not random in the sense that the rate is inversely proportional to the distance to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. So you feel that the farther away from Oslogryta you get, the lower the rate. Several have argued that the difference between Group 1 and Group 2 institutions in terms of reimbursement rates also seems illogical. In my view, there seems to be a need for a thorough review of the reimbursement rates of the training institutions, where different approaches are found to determine the reimbursement rates than those in force today. What you could imagine is that different facilities at the different training institutions, such as: of the type of parameters: where swimming pool, night watch, watch-stand doctor, how often individual physiotherapy is provided from access, etc., can provide a framework for what the reimbursement rate should be, thereby eliminating the coincidences, possibly a lack of chance, that apply today, so that institutions that are at a great distance from Oslo also receive reimbursement rates of approximately the same level. What you see – just to give examples of it – is for example: that Nord-Norges Kurbad with its 681 kr in grant rate per year daily, is lower than any of the group 2 training institutions with significantly worse facilities. And that can't be right. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether, firstly, he can provide a justification for the great differences that exist today, and, secondly, whether he wants to take some initiative to make up for those differences, so that there is a fairer response in terms of reimbursement to the training institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2037	As many people have said, these training institutions are an important and absolutely necessary supplement, and they play a very important role in making patients healthy. We also see a trend in accident statistics which means that, from the left's point of view, we do not believe that these institutions will be less needed in the future. The Council of State was concerned that a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is ongoing and that new regulations are being put in place that will make the professional requirements clear. On behalf of my party, Left, I would like to give a few signals about it: it is important that a framework is adequate, and that these institutions have reliable forecasts of the investments they are making in the future. And as many people have said, one must have an offering that is similar throughout the country, and it is not today. There are parts of the country that have fewer offers and poorer offers, where patients and other users have to travel far to get the training they need. It must also include a surer offer in all parts of the country. But what is decisive for a good outcome when it comes to training is the professional quality of the institutions, and the quality of the multi-disciplinary provision. We have institutions around the country that are run by voluntary organizations, foundations, which are also a very important supplement. So I hope that the Council of State, when they determine the professional requirements, will also take care of the shortage that exists. Some of these institutions, as there is a great effort behind them, are located in my part of the country, in the West. They're a very good supplement to the health service. It's absolutely necessary to have them, but we see that a lot of these institutions -- like the CatoCenter, which makes a good effort -- appear in those parts of the country where there might be a better population base. However, one must also take care of the institutions located in the more pig-grown strata, because they are a necessary addition. It is important not to forget to take care of the private institutions, but also to give them the economy they need to provide them, so that they do not become the state institutions that become the first to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2048	It is an important question raised in the interview of the representative Woie Duesund. Training institutions are very important to many individuals, but of course institutions are also important to society. It is a well-known case that many people who could have carried out important tasks in society if necessary training had been carried out are turning to social security. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to assess the use of social security to purchase treatment facilities. The second question that I would have liked to have been answered concerns the number of training centres in the country. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2000-2001 the Committee assumes that the best possible geographical distribution of the institutions is ensured and the Committee expressed the following opinion: ‘The Committee is aware that it is working to establish several training centres in East-Agder in cooperation between Lillesand Municipality, Bygland Municipality, Norwegian Women’s Sanitation and Bygland Training Centre AS. The Centre will include, among others: actively cooperate with the employment offices, social security offices, insurance companies and private and public enterprises, inter alia. to offer follow-up in relation to persons in the process of transition to long-term health messages and/or emergency situations.’;» Now the Council of State replied that the application had not been completed in the department. But when can one expect an answer about the training center in East Agder? In addition, I can inform you that it is also working actively in Risør and Vissnok in Arendal to establish a training centre. Then there is the big question: how will start-ups be sorted and prioritised? Will e.g. East-Agder, who doesn't have a gym, become a priority? A question that has also been raised by some others is: Have any models of operating conditions and economics been developed for the quality and predictability of such training centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2066	In the debate, several have both given the inter-pellant credit and raised questions to the Council of State on when to expect answers. The Council of State stated that there was an institution that had raised objections, which was to be answered quickly. With concrete reference to North Norway's Kurbad, the Council of State indicated that the necessary material had now been obtained, but the assessment had not been completed. It is good that the Stortinge has said that one cannot accept too high proportions, but the conversion of the system has resulted in institutions that have tried to keep low percentages, not so much compensation, because they have not previously used the propensity to obtain a balance in the budget. The representative of Ballo has clearly described the unfairness of the difference in the rates, not least by referring to the rate of North Norway's Kurbad. Can the Council of State tell us when it is expected that the assessment will be concluded, so that North Norway's Kurbad can receive an answer, and that people in this part of the country can know whether or not this absolutely necessary institution can be maintained? They need a quick answer. When can they get a quick answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2073	I thank you for an engaging debate so far. I think it is important that rehabilitation be put on the agenda. Many people with disabilities have an improvement potential that can be triggered by physical treatment. In addition to training, training is important so that a better person can understand and live with his or her illness and ailments. I think, among other things: at the so-called mastering course. This learning and rehabilitation process may take place in several arenas. Today we have focused on the training institutions, because many have a stay at such institutions before they can go home after, for example. an operational intervention and because the training institutions have knowledge and are good in this area. Once again, I would like to make it clear that it is positive that no patients pay more than NOK 190 in proportion per day. day(s) It should not be the economy that prevents patients from receiving treatment assistance so that they can master their daily lives in a better way. The Christian People's Party will once again make it clear that we want to get a roof 2 out of proportion. To Annelise Höegh, I would like to say that we need to keep looking at the specificities of the various institutions. In order for the training institutions not to come into such a difficult economic situation as this year, it must be possible to determine costs using a more agreed calculation method than has been the case this year. I hope that the Minister of Health will finally give a positive response to Asmund Kristoffersen that the institutions can use the beds more on an annual basis, not just on a daily basis. I also hope to receive confirmation that he will come back to the revised national budget in terms of coverage of reduced proportions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2090	Firstly, I can once again join in everything that has been said about the important role of training institutions in the overall healthcare system, and also in the desire to contribute in the future to strengthening the provision of these institutions to the population. It is recognised that the economy is a problem related to the operation of several of these institutions. It was not unexpected that there were some problems when one went away from the system that has been in place now, which meant that the individual institution had the opportunity to turn the costs over to the individual patient by means of self-esteem, with the result that very varying proportions were obtained when staying at these institutions. It was important to find a solution when dealing with that issue, and it was done by harmonizing the components and also lowering them in relation to what had been cut earlier. However, this means that institutions lack a way of financing their costs in relation to the past, and that they are then referred to other measures, both efficiency and cost-reduction measures, or to increase the coating in relation to what has been the situation in the past. As I have said before, I am fully committed to going through the funding system of these institutions and coming back to the Storting in connection with the work being done now, both with regard to a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and with regard to the preparation of regulations clarifying quality requirements and the relationship between the different types of institutions. In this context, it is also natural to consider the issue of the probabilities of these institutions in relation to the health sports institutions mentioned earlier, and also in relation to an institution such as CatoCenteret. I can also confirm in this context – even before that – that I am positive about opening up institutions to assess their coverage based on an annual basis rather than on a weekly basis as it is now, and in this way smoothing the fluctuations that have occurred in demand and that can mean a great deal for some. However, I would advise against relying on a funding system that provides automatic coverage of all costs regardless of how they were incurred. You have to find other and better solutions to that particular financing question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2099	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-14.ana.ud1296e2108	There is no record.
