ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e56	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e63	The proposals we are considering today are almost a small accumulation of minor changes in several laws relating to business. Amendments to the opening balance sheet rules are proposed by the formation of companies and by the transformation from a limited liability company to a public limited-liability company. The change implies a simplification for business in relation to the provisions that have been in force so far — while the new provision captures a practice that has already been followed for some time. The change in the capital adequacy requirement is a clarification of the legal provision so that there is no misunderstanding. These changes should be unproblematic for everyone. The change in the requirement to review merger balances also implies a simplification for business. From a full audit requirement, we are now moving on to a limited audit. The requirements for the documentation of such mergers are in any case comprehensive — and they should, of course, be such as to provide everyone with the information they require. The change proposed here will not change the information requirements, only a slightly simpler and more effective control of what is being presented. The proposal for a basis of the Insurance Contracts Act in order to lay down rules on the assessment of claims in insurance is based on the Stortinget. In 1996, a majority in this Chamber asked for an independent complaint. The government has concluded not to recommend such a name, but instead open to regulations. The Committee, like the hearing bodies, agrees to this. The latest proposed amendment involves adaptation to EEA legislation. In this respect, the Committee considers it appropriate to stress the need for Norwegian legislation to be rapidly adapted to EEA legislation when it is found to be inconsistent. This is an independent point, which concerns not least the conditions and opportunities of the Norwegian business community to deal with clear and predictable legislation. Of course, normal proceedings should be followed, and we should take the time to ensure the quality of what we do. But with that assumption at the bottom, it is important that we ensure that the pace is kept up and avoid unnecessary delays and delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e82	I am pleased that a unanimous committee has joined all of the proposals in the proposal. The changes are largely of a technical nature and cannot be considered to be controversial. That has also been shown by the consultation of the proposals. The amendments to the Shares Act and the General Shares Act mean that it will be easier to implement formation, merger, fission and transformation from a limited liability company into a public limited-liability company. A few of the proposals also concern legal clarifications that have been requested. All these changes must be seen as positive for business. The amendment to sections 14 to 10 of the General Shares Act brings the law into line with the Sixth EU Company Directive. This change is likely to be of less practical importance as the provisions regulate situations that rarely occur. However, the fact that Norwegian legislation fulfils our obligations under the EEA Agreement is in itself important. I am pleased that the committee joins the proposal in the proposal on the taxation of damage to property in insurance. We all agree on the importance of correct insurance settlement for consumers and that it should not be too costly or burdensome in other ways to have the insurance company overestimated the cost of damage. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's conclusion that it is not appropriate to set up a separate complaint panel for the assessment of damage to property. Among other things, because it would be difficult – or perhaps even impossible – to rely on written proceedings when assessing damage to property, I believe that this is a correct assessment. I am referring here to the fact that the Consumer Council also expressed this at the hearing. I am concerned about the position of consumers in insurance settlement, and believe that there may be grounds for strengthening consumer protection in relation to companies in this area. In my view, the best thing to do is to ensure that the insurance industry, in cooperation with the consumer authorities, can, on a voluntary basis, find solutions that take reasonable care of consumers. However, by adopting a regulatory remedy under the Insurance Contracts Act, we are given the opportunity to introduce mandatory rules on taxiing issues if the insurance industry does not itself take responsibility for this. I will follow developments and will make use of the regulatory helmet in accordance with the intentions if required.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e95	The Odelstingsproposition and the suspension relate to changes in share law, etc., and the Minister of Justice said – correctly – that this was something the Committee agreed with. The Progress Party part of the Committee had its comments, and that is what I intend to comment on a little. Especially in this one called "m.m.", there are some moments that I would like to develop. The Progress Party also adheres to amendments to Section 8-2 of the Insurance Contracts Act, where the Government receives a regulatory home. It is positive that one will follow in the practice of insurance companies as regards the procedure and the allocation of the costs of charging and so on. That's really what I realized that the Minister of Justice said in his speech. We have noticed that the main organisation of the financial industry has also asked its members to cover the expenses for which the company requires discretion – a call that the companies seem to follow. This is a good contribution, although the call came only after the work on assessing your own complaint started. In the case of proceedings and assessment, the need to require this may also come from the injured consumer. The rules would then be that each of the parties would bear its own costs. This may mean that some are reluctant to demand judgement, for fear of the costs involved. Probably one could then end up in a situation where some are missing out on an increased insurance claim. On this basis, the Progress Party wants the Government to follow developments in the event that consumer judgement is required. It will be important to consider whether some losses are due to the rule on the allocation of costs. Similarly, it would be equally interesting to follow the behaviour of companies in matters where consumer judgement is required, and the result is not an immaterial change in insurance settlement in the favour of consumers. I expect the Minister of Justice and his Department to be equally interested in following up this part of the process as well. Then I have to say that since I have been sitting here and joined the debate, I also want to refer to point 1.4 in the vote. Earlier today, the Stortinget had this with the Share Act and the meaning it actually had, and here it says in the point «Economic and administrative consequences»: «The amendments to the Shares Act and the General Shares Act are presumed to have positive economic and administrative consequences». Maybe it also applies in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e113	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 85]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e129	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 86]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e145	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e154	The Workers' Party believes it is a pity that the Government has drawn the odelsting proposal on child protection institutions promoted by the Stoltenberg government. Children placed in a child protection institution are often in a particularly vulnerable and vulnerable situation. Therefore, we need to ensure as quickly as possible that institutions are not used which are unable to perform these difficult tasks satisfactorily and which do not have a sound standard of professional and material competence. That was why the Stoltenberg government in June sent a bill to the Stortinget to impose clear quality requirements on all child protection institutions. The proposal should apply to both public institutions and institutions owned and operated by private actors. The proposal provided for the introduction of a specific authorisation system for purely private institutions. Before the proposal was promoted by the Stortinget, 64 hearing bodies had delivered an opinion, and the proposals were generally accepted by the hearing bodies. The reason that children and young people have to live in a child protection institution for shorter or longer periods may be a failure of care at home and/or the development of behavioural problems. Many of the children therefore need both care and treatment, and it is of great importance for their future development that the institutions used are able to meet the specific needs of each child. The main emphasis of today's child protection institutions, approx. 60 pst., is still owned and operated by the public. Private organisations or foundations own the remaining 40 pst. It includes both non-profit and humanitarian organisations and commercial private actors. The quality of national child protection institutions varies in both public and private institutions. In recent years, much has been done by the public to close down the worst offers, but although most child-rescue institutions now represent good and safe care bases for the children and young people living there, there is no doubt that there are still exceptions. Therefore, the Workers' Party wishes to introduce clear quality requirements for all child protection institutions. Such quality requirements must include, inter alia: provide for professional requirements for the establishment, staff requirements and competence of staff. Furthermore, certain minimum material requirements will be imposed, such as: institutions' buildings and equipment are adapted to the age and needs of children. Following the proposal, institutions which do not meet the quality requirements would no longer be used. As mentioned above, a specific authorisation system has also been proposed for the purely private child protection institutions. In order to be approved, a private institution must be operated in accordance with the Child Protection Act and the regulations of the law and must comply with the required quality requirements. Otherwise, the institution must operate properly. It is also proposed that the approval should take account of the need for the institution in question in the county. Today, some counties have an overloading in institutional settings, while other counties have few institutional places in relation to their own country’s needs. The Labour Party believes that it is important to ensure a fair distribution of institutions in the country, so that as many as possible children and young people are offered institutional space in their own country, unless, for the sake of the child himself, distance is required. The proposal implies that recognition should take account of the fact that the need for institutions in the county could contribute to a better institutional distribution between the counties. Quality requirements and the authorisation scheme are one of several instruments to contribute to the quality of child protection institutions. An approval system is a pre-clearance of an institution, but it will not be able to establish the quality of the institution once and for all. It will therefore also be necessary, after the possible entry into force of the authorisation system, to actively supervise the institutions. The draft law therefore maintains the existing provisions on the prudential supervision of institutions. These provisions provide for the supervision of both public and private institutions by the county. The counties shall ensure that the institutions operate in accordance with the legislation. It implies, if the proposal had been adopted by the Stortinget, that the county would have been responsible for monitoring the compliance of the institutions with the quality requirements in force at all times. As part of its supervisory responsibilities, if it finds that the operation is irresponsible, it shall have the power to oblige the institutions to rectify such matters within the institution and to cease operations. I believe that the quality requirements laid down and the approval system will make the oversight task easier. In particular, the staff will have clearer criteria for channelling institutions which do not meet specific requirements, or which operate irresponsibly, at the expense of legal certainty, the level of care and development of the children and young people placed in the institutions. The children who end up in child protection institutions have often been through a lot of bad. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that they get the best possible offer, and that they get the security they may never have experienced. The authorisation system we proposed was precisely aimed at ensuring that safety. It is urgent to ensure that all child protection institutions have the required quality. Therefore, it would have been important that we had dealt with this bill now, and therefore it is a pity that the Government has pulled it, because that means that it will take even longer before these children are to be absolutely sure of the security they so deeply need and have earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e177	We are not going to take this debate now, because we have great respect for the fact that this matter is wanted to be drawn. The amendments apply to a large extent to private child protection institutions, to whom they are to be subject to approval by the approval body and to which criteria they are to be approved. When the government chooses to draw the proposition, this is not so strange, considering that the matter first came as an amendment from the Labour Party Government. The fact that we need a change in the Child Welfare Act cannot be disputed, and perhaps the Government should take a proper review of the whole law on child protection services, because it is obvious that there may be some shortcomings in this law. Guess as much sensible, but as I said, we choose to take this debate when we have a proposal for legislative change as a matter. We hope that the matter will return quickly to Stortinget, so that it can be processed in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e186	Placing a child or youth at a child protection institution after a coercive decision is one of the most comprehensive responsibilities a society can take on individuals. Serious issues arise before such decisions are taken. In any case, when such a coercive decision is taken, the public with the Children’s Act takes over the responsibility and care of the child or youth. It cannot be stressed enough that the public must be absolutely sure that the child or young person can be offered an offer tailored to the individual child, and not least that the child protection institution has certain standards, and that the staff are qualified and able to provide care and other services needed by the child or youth. The public has not had capacity and has not given priority to expanding the public intervention apparatus in order to meet the needs of child protection institutions. Many institutions are therefore run privately. Unfortunately, there is no consistent agreement between the county and the institutions, and we know that there are children and young people living in private institutions such as the Netherlands. do not receive the school they are entitled to receive. We have too many single examples of children and young people being placed in their homes or in institutions without public evaluation of their location. Therefore, it is not understandable that the Government chooses to withdraw Ot.prp. No 15 for 2001-2002 by the Stoltenberg Government, proposing an authorisation system for the institutions. At best, it can be characterised as substituting arguments when the Bondevik II government uses the argument that the department is investigating a new organisation of the county council's tasks. Such an approval system is urgent. We cannot accept that a single child or a single youth is misplaced, either because of a lack of qualified staff, that there is not enough schooling or other shortages. We can do worse damage than the problem was initially for them. I hope that the Government can reconsider its position and enter into an approval system for the institutions. In some cases, if such an authorisation scheme leads to the closure of certain child protection institutions, it may be very good. However, the Government cannot use its scepticism against an authorisation system for child protection institutions to ensure that all institutions continue in any case. The Socialist Left also wants a variety of different forms of child placement, but we believe that clear quality requirements need to be set. I would like to point out that the Socialist Left Party will continue to be a watchdog for the children and young people who are placed at child protection institutions. We do not give up until we are sure that each person is given a sufficiently good care and a school offer. Finally, I want to make the Storting extra aware of the precarious situation of the statesmen. Following the 1993 amendment of the law, the state was required to supervise the institutions. There are now daily violations of the legislation around the county. There is a marked disparity between the statutory inspections and the fact that the county has to cut out daily to carry out these visits due to a lack of finances and a lack of input resources. This imbalance endangers legal certainty for the most vulnerable groups in society. We take the withdrawal of Ot.prp from the Government. No 15 to be noted, with the clear premise that the investigative work now undertaken by the Ministry in relation to the role of the county authorities as approval authority has priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e203	First, I would like to stress that, after the Central Party's view, it must be up to the successive government to choose whether to draw items that are presented by the detropical government. The centre party therefore takes note of this. When this applies to the contents of Ot.prp. No 15, the Center Party has previously been in a minority given what we can call quality assurance and approval of all types of child protection institutions. We have proposals that we have voted down in Stortinget. The vision we've had before, we still have, and what came from the government of Stoltenberg when it comes to content, was positive and happy. Children who need a stay in a child-rescue institution are required to have the quality stamp in order. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is important that this matter is given a very high priority in the ministry, that it comes back quickly to the Storting, and that quality assurance should be a key word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e210	I also believe, like those who have spoken to now, that action is absolutely necessary to improve the quality of child protection institutions – this because the quality of institutional services is highly variable. Although many child protection institutions are to represent good and safe care provision for children and young people, it is a fact that some can and should become much better. Children who, for various reasons, need to live in a child protection institution for a shorter or longer period of growth all need – and demand – a qualitatively good provision of institutions. I therefore believe that it is necessary to set clear quality requirements for child protection institutions and that a specific authorisation system should be introduced for private institutions, as proposed in Ot.prp. No 15 for 2001-2002 by the Stoltenberg Government. The reason for the withdrawal of this proposition is that the Ministry is currently investigating the possible reorganization of the tasks of county councils in the area of child protection. This work is a follow-up to St.meld. No 31 for 2000–2001 on the division of tasks between municipalities, counties and countries and the treatment of the Stortinge. I refer to Innst. S. No 307 for 2000-2001. The study on the future organisation of the tasks of county councils in the field of child protection was launched under the previous government and continued under the current government. Work is in progress and the future organisation and division of tasks will be assessed as quickly as possible. In Ot.prp. No 15 which was promoted to Stortinget by the government of Stoltenberg, the county council has been proposed as an approval authority for private institutions. In the ongoing study on the division of tasks, the organisation of the tasks of the county council in the field of child protection will be assessed. In this respect, the issue of the approval authority may need to be reconsidered. I therefore believe that the issue of future organisation and division of tasks needs to be clarified before the adoption of legislative amendments relating to the authorisation system. A proposal to authorise the Ministry to impose quality requirements on all child protection institutions, as well as a proposal for a system of approval for private institutions, will be re-enforced by the Stortinget once the Government has taken a decision on the reorganisation issue. If it is decided to submit a proposal to the Stortinget involving a new organisation, the proposal on quality requirements and the approval system, including the approval authority, will be included in this proposal so that the Stortinget can see these issues in context. If it is decided to maintain the current organisation, the proposal for the approval system and quality requirements will be submitted to the Storting immediately after this clarification has been made. The ongoing investigation involves some delay in the implementation of quality requirements and approval system. As far as I can see, such a postponement might also have been necessary if the government had been seated. I guess it would also have been necessary for the previous government to see these questions in context. However, I will do what I can to ensure that the delay does not go beyond what is strictly necessary. The question of future organisation is a high priority in the department, and I will come back to Stortinget with a clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 87]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e239	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 87]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e247	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e438	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e448	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e545	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e555	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e595	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e630	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e640	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-lower.ana.ud1607e651	There is no record.
