ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e26	First of all, I would like to say that it is gratifying to see that there is such a broad majority that now ends up in Norwegian European policy, built on the EEA Agreement, and that we are going to have a closer relationship with the European Union in all the main areas of cooperation. I would also like to say that the vote marks an important time gap in the Norwegian EU debate. In 1994, the EU was represented as an organisation that wanted to share Europe, create a fortress against the rest of the world and also be bad for the environment and social justice. Today, a broad majority say that we want the EU to expand, which must mean that we believe the EU is good for Europe and therefore also good for Norway. But it is precisely this expansion that most people support, which is creating the challenge for Norway now. Firstly, a major enlargement of the EU will create an even greater imbalance between the EU on the one hand and EFTA on the other, in what we call EEA cooperation. The EFTA pillar will consist of three very small countries, while up to 27 countries can be dealt with on the other side. Obviously, it's something new. It will be more demanding to have special arrangements and special events in a wide range of areas when the EU is enlarged. We already note today that there are growing problems in caring for the interests of other countries outside, in the interests of far more countries within. This coincides with the rapid expansion of EU cooperation in areas not covered by the EEA. The EEA Agreement largely covers the internal market, which is governed by rules, and where the Commission has the initiative. This will be a smaller and smaller part of EU cooperation. What is growing is political cooperation, which is dynamic, not rule-driven, but political, and where the European Council has the initiative. So we are very much dealing with the Commission, which is taking fewer initiatives in terms of its own, while the Council, where we are not, is taking over more and more of the initiative in a wide range of policy areas. So the EU is not only expanding in terms of the number of members, but the EU is expanding cooperation. I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the debate has so little to do with these challenges. Many people are content to say briefly that the EEA Agreement will pass. It is a legal agreement that cannot be cancelled, and therefore sauna. It is true that it is a legally binding agreement, but it does little to help if political developments make this legal agreement less important every day. This has, for example: Iceland has been very aware of and started a major investigation process in the major political parties. When I was in Iceland recently, the Icelandic Foreign Minister took an initiative to have Norway and Iceland sit down and discuss these problems seriously – because they are very serious about it. We agreed to set up an official group in the first place, just to get more concrete into what this is really going to mean for us as an EEA country. So I think this is something we actually have to deal with politically in a different way than saying that there is no problem. I'm a little surprised that those who make sure Norway stayed outside, instead, are very concerned about what we're going to think about those inside, what they're going to do with their own organization. And it's even more remarkable when the same parties don't want any membership debate at all. Then why should we have an opinion about this, if the purpose is not to even discuss the question of membership? Another remarkable thing I think it has been in this debate – I have to say it, and here I come to an important point as Minister of Foreign Affairs: the central parties believe that the Government should have described more thoroughly the pan-European organisations. But the same parties don't do it in the settings themselves. They have been challenged to say something more about this in the hall, but have not said anything more about it. Maybe the reason is that there's nothing more to say about it. The OSCE is an important enough organisation, but one could ask former Foreign Minister Vollebæk why the OSCE had to withdraw its observers in the Balkans, or in Kosovo – NATO had to move in and take responsibility. And now it's not the OSCE that takes the initiative to stop an unfortunate development in Macedonia, but it's NATO and the EU, and they go together. Solana and Robertson travel together to Macedonia to run political diplomacy. I believe this is very important for Norway to get hold of. This is the picture of the new Europe that is forming, namely that it is the EU and NATO that are the main actors individually. The EU is expanding the stability and welfare zone of which we, the countries of Western Europe, have benefited for decades, to most European countries. NATO is expanding the security zone of which we have been a part, to include an increasing number of European countries. And NATO and the EU are doing this in ever closer cooperation with Russia. This is the new pattern that we have to deal with as a foreign policy and as a nation. And then I get to the point. Because it was said by Steensnæs that Norway is not isolated, we participate globally and in Europe. And Jakobsen said that we can conduct an independent foreign policy. I have to ask as Minister for Foreign Affairs, where and in what area can we do something by being independent in this reality? Is it in the Balkans? We cannot do anything without cooperating with the EU and NATO. Is that in the Middle East? I know very well that it is not possible to accomplish anything without close cooperation with the EU and the United States. Is this in relation to the Kyoto negotiations? Is that in relation to the WTO? Or is that relative to Russia? On 17 May, an EU-NATO summit took place. I can give one positive message from that meeting – it was that the EU had made every effort to get the Russians to take new steps to reach a multilateral agreement on nuclear safety cooperation in the north, which is extremely important for Norway. We had worked in relation to the EU to get them to take this up – a proof of what we have to do if we are to exercise foreign policy influence and get something for Norway. And the statement they made shows a strategic partnership between the EU and Russia, for example. in the case of gas. Clearly, if we are to promote our national interests, we must deal with such realities. It's no use ignoring it and talking about an independent foreign policy. We need to interact with the big players who are now on our own continent, who are close to us, in order to solve the very close problems our country is dealing with, among other things. up in North-West Russia. I have to say this so strongly because it is not useful to ignore such clear realities. And one cannot point out that Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan – which are great countries, good countries – are not in the EU. It's just that they're not our most important allies. The most important allies, and all our most important allies in Europe, will eventually become members of the EU, if they do so according to plan. That's what Norway has to deal with. And now the EU has the opportunity to draw on NATO resources, and the EU and NATO will stand in ever closer cooperation with Russia. This is the new picture that is drawing on in Europe and that we have to deal with as a nation. Then I think it might be wise to have freedom of action. And I think it might be wise to have an intensive analysis and debate on what we're facing. From now on, the Internet pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the meeting place for Europe, will reflect the full breadth of Norway’s relationship with Europe and the EU, including in particular: bring reports about what's happening out here, through our foreign stations. There is one measure by very many. But I think we have to follow closely as a nation now, if we are to be able to take care of our national interests, and do something in the world as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e52	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e55	I noticed the foreign minister's commitment and what almost sounds like a reproof of a different conclusion, a different assessment than the foreign minister himself has presented in the document that Stortinget has for treatment, and what he himself presented as his vision today. I think that the Foreign Minister's speeches remind me more of a firm position than of the need for the increased freedom of action, for which he argued. And I think a natural conclusion to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' posts was that as head of the Norwegian Labour Party and Minister for Foreign Affairs, he should recommend to Stortinget that Norway apply for membership of the EU. That would be a natural conclusion. But it does not appear in the document, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not say that. This debate began with several of us asking for an explanation that this communication lacks a closer discussion of two important parallel processes in the EU that do not go hand in hand. One is the enlargement of the EU, which requires flexibility and adaptation because the 12 candidate countries have different needs. The second is the depression, with different vertical integration, which is problematic for the EU. We have received the explanation from Haakon Blankenborg: for the Government, it is not interesting to discuss this, because we are not going to be members of the EU. Of course, for those who have taken a fixed position, whether they have a yes position or a no position, it's not interesting to discuss this. But for those of us who are following developments in the EU because it is important to know about these processes, it is quite interesting what the alternative to today's solution is. The Christian People's Party and I ourselves are convinced that this country is well served with the solution we have found, but we are constantly aware of the developments taking place in the European Union. We regret that the Government has not seen the need to analyse the important processes and sort them out for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e66	A wrong conclusion is drawn when it is said that, according to my contribution, membership of the EU should be recommended. Everyone knows what I think would be best. I think it is even more important to say this as I say, in a situation where we are not a member of the EU. If you really want to take care of EEA cooperation, you need to have a look at what enlargement will mean – now that it comes. You can't blame management in Iceland for wanting to bring Iceland into the EU, when they're even more concerned about EEA cooperation than what we're here in Norway. They have launched a comprehensive process and want to cooperate with Norway on this in order to analyse in detail what this is going to mean, so I think the situation becomes quite absurd when trying to dismiss such assessments and place me in such a booth. I can't see that it serves Norway at all. I cannot see that it serves Norway that this type of debate technique is trying to dispel a fundamental debate on this. We would like to discuss what depression means for Norway, but it is not very important for us. I don't think it's good for our country either that we should have some really good ideas about what we think the European Union itself should do, as long as we're not a member of the European Union. But it has, for example, It is of great importance to us whether progress is progressing in the direction that now appears to be the case, namely that the Council takes on more of the initiative. It is of great importance because it is the Commission that is important to us in relation to the EEA Agreement. It is the one that governs the internal market, and then it is very important whether or not the EU attaches greater importance to the Council in the future. This is clear. But we just have to relate to what they're doing, and can hardly affect what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e75	Not only did I take note of the foreign minister's commitment, but I appreciated it. I think it is right to stress that more and more EU cooperation is taking place outside the area that we can influence through the EEA Agreement. Among other things, the Lisbon Strategy now implements measures in line with common objectives and progress plans, but without using the EEA Agreement’s regulatory framework. In reality, national Member States are now implementing national measures, which together and in total constitute a huge European leap forward in order to strengthen the competitiveness of countries individually and collectively. It is true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: this is dynamic and not rule-driven. However, the Communication has written the following: ‘In so far as such initiatives fall outside the scope of the EEA Agreement, but at the same time directly affect the competitive position in the internal market, they may lead to a relative deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ I agree. However, it is very dynamic not to follow an Icelandic initiative and set up an official group. The initiatives taken here are in classical, well-known areas of activity, including: The business organisations, led by the NHO, have pointed to the concrete challenges facing us in Norway. It concerns the whole sector, from taxes and taxes to research and development, technology, etc. – I could mention a number of other measures – in other words, actions that are not foreign in the Norwegian debate. My question is, does the government have something more dynamic to offer than waiting for the official team? Are they prepared to accept part of these challenges at national level? It is entirely up to us to do so at national level, in parallel with the EU countries doing so at their level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e87	I need to clarify that the cooperation that we have started with Iceland to investigate what is now happening will mean concretely for EEA cooperation, just goes on the EEA cooperation itself and not on everything else that Per-Kristian Foss mentioned. Of course, we don't want to wait on Iceland or on others about what we're going to do in relation to all of the other questions. It is therefore a matter of concretely what it means for EEA cooperation to expand the EU. That the imbalance in EEA cooperation is going to be even greater, and that it is becoming more difficult to hear for, among other things. participation in committees, we have already seen. So it's part of what we want to think about, what it will actually lead to for EEA cooperation. But everything else is very important to be discussed. However, it is clear that not all that is happening in the EU must be used to implement specific policy projects that you have. For example, the NHO is now pushing ahead with the EU in order to reduce taxes and taxes. I must remind you that it is clearly not the case that those with the lowest taxes in the EU area are the ones that have the greatest success in terms of industrial policy. Our neighbouring country Sweden has quite a lot of success in a good number of areas now, but it is the country that has the highest taxes — and significantly higher taxes than Norway. It may well be that the countries with the highest taxes in Europe are, in fact, the best welfare countries, and they also have a very dynamic business policy. I am fully involved in a national debate on taxes and taxes and much more, and I see the need for us to constantly adapt to the situation in Europe, but we must not mix the cards too much here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e96	I have registered that the foreign minister and the head of the Labour Party have still vented their thoughts on future Norwegian membership of the EU. The message has been well wrapped in vague wordings. It's made a big point that if the situation changes, you have to be open to re-apply for membership. But it's not safe – maybe we should apply for membership, maybe we shouldn't. So, as the Foreign Minister has probably registered, it's a choice for the autumn. I find it unfair for a party to go to elections without having clarified whether Norway should apply for EU membership for the next major period. In order to obtain such clarification, my question will be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs recommend to the Workers' Party to support the proposal of the Progress Party that ‘The Grand Duchy assumes that Norway does not apply for membership of the EU during the next major period’? Or will he make it clear here and now that he thinks Norway should apply for membership? In fact, I think the Norwegian people are entitled to a clarification from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e103	I would not recommend supporting the proposal put forward by the Progress Party. That's because we think you have to have a certain amount of freedom of action in the next majority period, based on two assumptions. One is the extension itself. Only when we get the first membership agreements will we be able to evaluate how many there are that will be able to get into the first place, and how fast that could happen. On that basis, we can analyse what we should do. Then we can also look at whether there have been any changes in the attitudes of the Norwegian people to this. What I think can be said with quite a lot of certainty, is that this question does not come up to the final decision either here in the Stortinget or in a referendum in the next big time. The timetable will not be such, because the first membership agreements will be available around 2002 and 2003, and we need to make a thorough analysis here at home of what to do, and if we are going to promote a new membership request, it cannot be done until the end of the period. And then it'll be a long time before you can have a referendum. It is therefore quite clear that the next majority will not be confronted with such a decision. Moreover, that decision is not to be taken by the Stortinget. That's what the people are going to do through a referendum. So you can take it easy when it comes to that. It is neither the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, nor any other party in this Chamber that decides this question. That's what the Norwegian people decide. But we as political leaders must take responsibility for and analyse the situation as Europe evolves. That is what the Labour Party has said. That's what we're asking the people for when we're going to big shots. We say that clearly, and I think that is a very clear message to the people about where we stand in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e112	Earlier today, the Prime Minister has clarified the Government’s view on the question of any Norwegian application for membership for the next period. The Prime Minister said it would be wrong to say that we should apply for membership in the next period, but he also strongly underlined that it would be wrong to exclude such an application. This is quite in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said earlier, namely that it cannot be excluded that the size chosen in the autumn will have to take a stand on this important issue, including the procedure for such an application. In the foreign debate earlier this year, the foreign minister and I agreed that the most important thing was whether an application can be sent in the next period, not in 2003, 2004 or 2005. Of course, it is crucial that it is the set-up to be selected for the harvest, which, if necessary – I stress where appropriate – will take a decision, both on the procedure and on any application. In view of this, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that the EU case still has a completely natural place in the forthcoming election campaign? And will the Minister of Foreign Affairs contribute to the fact that the Workers' Party is not deliberately trying this time, just as it was in 1989, to put a lid on a completely natural debate on a matter that could be updated in the next majority period?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e127	I can only answer what I've always said, that it's quite natural that this question is being discussed in connection with a big shot. What else would one discuss if one were not to discuss really big, crucial questions for the country? And nothing would please me more than if you really got the big questions on the agenda in connection with a big election, and not just the small ones. It's really fundamental for Norway what we're doing in relation to the tearing development that's now taking place right outside our living room door. So I can only answer that I'm going to do mine to get a debate on this also in connection with the big shot. I think the centre party here has held a clean race by having a clear position on what they want to recommend. That the representative Jakobsen also repeatedly says that we have clarified what we want to do, I think it is very correct. In view of the fact that we're going to go to big shots, the parties should clarify what it is you want to invite people to join in the next big shot. We want to invite people to say that Norway should have a right of action to analyse the situation, and possibly on the basis of it could promote an application, even if the timetable would be as I explained in previous articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e135	I noticed that the case rapporteur earlier today stressed that this big message was not a study booklet, and that it was therefore natural that some topics were not discussed, such as: the European debate on how far the EU is going to go in a federal direction. But the striking thing about the message is that it is so much like a study booklet and so little does it contain proposals for concrete actions, as large-scale messages often do. In the final chapter, the objective of the Communication is expressed as follows: ‘With this Communication, the government has wanted to contribute to a broad and ongoing debate and reflection on Norway’s position and Norwegian European policy into the 21st century.’ SV agrees that such debate and reflection are important, but as we write in the setting, a more balanced message would benefit the debate. SV requires e.g. a discussion of the potential benefits for Norway to be outside the EU. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he sees any such advantages, not least in his own field of responsibility, foreign policy. Is it never an advantage, in the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that Norway can take autonomous positions in foreign policy contexts such as ‘foreign’? As I said, the European Communication does not contain so many concrete measures, but if the proposals put forward by the Centre and the EN have a majority here today, at least something will come out of the discussion of this Communication. If, however, these proposals are not adopted, I will finally ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he will follow up these proposals in a different form and come back with the necessary appropriations in the autumn budget proposals, but with the intention of facilitating organisations and parties to work more closely with EU policies, which will eventually become Norwegian policies. As mentioned earlier, SV believes it is high time that we were better prepared to allow Norwegian organisations and the relevant communities to work more systematically with impact in relation to EU decisions that have implications for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e149	To the end, I just want to say that just what Lisbet Rugtvedt here spoke about, I've been concerned about as long as I've been in politics – from being a party secretary and until I became a party leader – that we should make sure that it's good with resources in organisations and parties to just brief and work towards Europe. So there's something that I'll try to follow up. I have not said that Norway should not take independent positions. But it's this concept of an independent foreign policy I'm talking about, because if we try to define Norway as an actor that can deal independently with the important actors on its own continent and globally, then we wouldn't achieve anything. It is clear that we can take independent positions, and we do so many times too, but it is only by dealing with the major actors, the European Union, the United States and, in particular, Russia, that we have an opportunity to make an impact on what we want. We have to realise that in most cases Norwegian positions actually agree very well with what is the EU's positions, and that is all, from our Middle East policy to Balkan policy and Kyoto, so it would be remarkable if, in a way, we were to view the EU as a kind of resistance that we must be independent of. That's what it's very important to get there. What are the advantages of being outside the EU, I think, depending on what position you have. There are, of course, advantages and disadvantages of being both outside and inside. Some say that it is a great advantage that we are not part of the EU's agricultural policy – I am fully willing to participate in that discussion – the same applies to fisheries policy. But I mean everything has to be seen in a whole, and we're not in a discussion where we're doing it now. Now we're based on what we're going to do, given that we have the EEA agreement to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e158	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e161	Norway is not only a geographical part of Europe but also a cultural and political part of it. It is therefore not a question of whether Norway should have an active European policy, but what it should involve. Norway will pursue a European policy that will make us an active partner in the development of Europe, while at the same time safeguarding important national and political interests. I believe that the solutions we have adopted to link up with European organisations and the commitment we have to other European policies have so far taken care of these concerns. But of course this needs to be kept under constant review. We should therefore not be afraid of a Europe debate, and of course it must be more than a debate on EU membership. However, there will have to be a limit to how often and how many times we are going to have membership debates involving the whole people through one or more referendums. And to take this first. I cannot see that there are grounds for creating uncertainty about Norway's relationship with the European Union during the forthcoming enlargement period. I myself am among those who see arguments both for and against the membership relationship as well as the EEA link. For me, the benefits are greater with today's form of association, which is based mainly on the EEA Agreement, and the disadvantages of membership are greatest. That's how I see it in the years that come. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made an enthusiastic contribution to the European Union and its role in Europe, and that is all right. However, the article was characterised by a description that only pointed to problems by not being a member, not a recognition of the EU’s own problems, such as: a significant democratic deficit and unemployment that has been clearly above what we have had in Norway and in the other EFTA countries over a long period of time and on average – to mention a couple. A nuanced EU debate needs to address such issues. The first enlargement of the EU to the east will have little or no experience in the next enlargement period. Enlargement will also be limited. I therefore believe that we can assume that we are not sending a new membership request during the next major period. But that doesn't mean that everything has to be the same. Active policies and priorities are needed both in relation to the EU in particular and to Europe in general. In relation to the EU, I would like to mention, for Norway, the ESDP, the development of security and defence cooperation, to which Norway has established a link, and where we must actively care for our interests, inter alia. to maintain the transatlantic dimension. Schengen cooperation, which was viewed differently in this Chamber, has entered into force. It is important for Norway that we now actively follow the experience of how this works in practice. The fight against cross-border crime, including: It is important for Norway to participate in drugs, and I look forward to the Government presenting a negotiated agreement with Europol on this later in the spring session — as far as I understand. I would also like to mention specifically the issue of environmental protection, a cross-border problem, a cross-border challenge, where the EU is of course an important player, and where Norway must constantly stand on, among others. to involve the EU in addressing these issues in the northern regions in general and in relation to Russia in particular. With regard to other European policies, in addition to cooperation with the EU, the Christian People's Party has underlined the importance of the pan-European bodies. Firstly, these organisations were historically important because they were a meeting place for all European countries, including the new democracies of Eastern and Central Europe when the Iron Curtain fell. But, secondly, they still have important tasks in the years to come. The Safety and Co-operation Organisation has three dimensions in particular – political-military cooperation, economic and environmental cooperation and what goes along what we call the ‘human dimension’. We have seen that the OSCE, among others. has played an important role in Kosovo, in a leadership role in the work on human rights, democratic development and the rule of law. The Stability Pact for South-East Europe, also supervised by the OSCE, has been and will be an important task for the OSCE. As regards the Council of Europe, this body has a special and partly unique competence in the long-term work to create stable democratic institutions, minimum standards and legal predictability. There will be important tasks for the Council of Europe in the years to come. For Norway, of course, cooperation in NATO is crucial, not only for our security and defence policy, but – in my view – also for our European policy. Partnership for Peace has given NATO cooperation here a new and partly pan-European dimension, which means much for confidence-building measures and for increased security in our part of the world. With regard to the future of the European Union, we see an ever-increasing number of jobs, which was also pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also two processes with clear internal tensions, namely the enlargement process and the integration process. And I think these two processes might get in conflict with each other. Several potential EU Member States in the east have an economy and a social structure that will not be able to withstand for a long, long time the deep integration that many in the EU now want. The question will then be whether the EU will open up for Members to go differently in integration, as they have already done in relation to economic and monetary union, and that in this way we can get a European Union at several speeds or a Europe of several concentric circles. In this case, it can give you a little bit of a new European map. This has not been specifically addressed by the Government in the Storing Message. I think it belongs in a debate on the future of Europe, and in this way I think that there is a lack of communication, a message which, moreover, in the case of the analysis part, is in many ways good, and which we have also expressed that one can largely join, and which has today been presented by a foreign minister with such a strong commitment to the European Union and its membership, that there was really only one natural conclusion that was missing, namely that Norway should seek it as soon as possible. It is therefore interesting to note that it does not do the Workers' Party, it does not do the Government. But there is an uncertainty about what it will do in the coming period, an uncertainty I do not think one needs to create, with the experience we have from EU debates relatively recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e196	Europe is reorganising and the number of EU Member States is increasing. Of Europe’s 45 countries, 15 are members of the EU, 12 are negotiating membership, and another five are potential members through the Stabilisation Pact for South-Eastern Europe. Unfortunately, Norway’s ‘outership’ has put us in the situation that we are sailing as blind passengers in a peaceful historical process that will give Europe’s people greater social, economic and political cohesion. I would like to see Norway, with our financial resources, our political traditions and our history, be a much more active party. The right, of course, accepts the 1994 referendum, but I think it is reassuring that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left in the vote will not recognise the role of the European Union as the central force in the construction of the new and peaceful Europe. The EU is the second-largest player in support of the positive change processes in the candidate countries. EU cooperation is the goal of an increasing number of the old Communist-led countries, which are in search of security within democratic cooperation. According to the European Communication, over the period 2000-2006, the EU will use DKK 656 billion to support the candidate countries and in addition bilateral efforts will be made. In this way, Norway’s contribution will be 169 million. D over two years for the candidate countries rather puzzled in relation to EU action. The right has wanted, and we still want it, that Norway should have both political ambitions to take its share of the responsibility for the development of Europe and also distort economic instruments in favour of Eastern Europe. In this way, it is disappointing that the European Communication does not include ambitions and objectives based on a business focus, nor does it re-evaluate the economic instruments that have been used with varying degrees of success. In other words, the right view is that the action plan is far from the force that the Government believes it is, because it lacks both economic instruments and ambitions to use business activity as part of economic, social and political support for change processes, among others. the candidate countries to the EU. The right has called for, and we would like to repeat, that Norway should have a much clearer focus on Eastern Europe. We should have a stronger commitment and establish stronger relations with countries that inspire EU membership, perhaps especially the Baltic countries as well as Poland. For the Right, Norwegian efforts in North-West Russia have been a field of activity. Unfortunately, in repeated budgetary discussions, we have not received a majority for increased efforts and for greater humanitarian aid. The right regrets that, for example: The cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe has been reduced, while both the Europe Communication and the Russia Strategy presented a year ago stipulate that economic cooperation and industrial development are instruments of bilateral action. In this way, the Government’s promises in the Europe Communication become less credible as regards Norway’s overall objective of ensuring that economic cooperation and improved living conditions in North-West Russia and the Baltic Sea region are particularly visible in Norway’s efforts in the Northern Dimension. In my view, the European message will be both pale and bloodless in this way. The EU’s northern dimension is about Europe’s focus on the northern regions, where we, as foreigners and neighbours to Russia, are most affected. In my view, the European message has a significant weakness in not taking up or clarifying how Norway will follow up the northern dimension of the EU. The Barentsregion organisation is well and good, but Norway should be far more offensive in achieving a common coordination unit, where Norway, Finland Sweden and Denmark – i.e. the Nordic countries – established closer cooperation on the northern dimension. This is an area where, in my opinion, the Government should place greater emphasis on. The right has many times before, and I like to repeat it, underlined the central relationship between a country's well-being and social development and its economic development. For example: Attack an attack on the poorest and weakest countries and a protectionist tool to protect the richest. Increasing trade and investment in Eastern Europe through a stronger business focus would be highly desirable to be able to read about in the Europe Communication. Unfortunately, this is missing, and on the right, we will, in the follow-up, on a later occasion, place great emphasis on the fact that business focus and commitment in economic cooperation are essential elements of our European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e222	Let me start by saying that although there is a thorough message that is being processed today, there is, as several others have been, a great deal about the clear conclusions of the Government on these issues. It points to a number of important areas that need to be addressed by the nation, but answers to the challenges facing it will not be found either in the communication or in the conclusions of the Committee. However, the goodwill of this government is said to have taken a small step in the right direction in the future, as opposed to that of the previous government, where we witnessed that the European debate was almost at rest on the ground. This was not the nation's merit. It's a little strange again to be presented with the same posts that we've heard over many years, about the need to end up on our freedom of action and our so-called right of self-determination. Every day we get examples at home in the local arena, in the local money pile, that even our own borders do not prevent us from having company visits, groups, etc. which finds domestic involvement as interesting as outside the borders of the country, and we see examples of the fact that even the banking and credit services now appear more or less in branched form. We are increasingly moving towards a situation where we are going to see that the status of the EEA Agreement is getting more and more confused. And we can't expect us to have the sympathy and concern we once had about Norway's status in the further necessary rounds that we're going to have for the renegotiation of part of the EEA Agreement. Especially when we see that of all countries in the north, with the exception of Russia and Iceland, only Norway is without EU membership, and when we know that the European debate in Iceland is likely to have gone a lot further than what we are witnessing here today. We also see that all of our allies in Europe are members of the EU or negotiate membership. With regard to the military policy situation, there is a great deal of evidence that the US's presence in and attention to Europe is escalating, and that we will witness the fact that we are also more likely to be at risk in the future when the necessary decisions are taken. We are spectators of the enlargement of the European Union to include Eastern and Central Europe. We are spectators of the EU's huge environmental effort in the new ACs. Only in the environmental sector do we see that the EU invests around EUR 120 billion to bring the first of the new candidate countries up to the environmental standards needed to enable them to sell goods and services within the EU market. Someone would like to say that we can afford this. Yes, for every day that goes, we connect to the so-called oil mast. We can afford to stand outside as long as we have a very high crude oil price, a high gas price, and we can decorate ourselves with a high dollar price. But there is reason to ask what responsibility no-parties have taken since they gave the big victory in 1972 and 1994 in those areas of the country where there were the largest no-parties. It was these areas of the country that were to be mountained by our being outside Europe. If we look at the statistics today, clear numbers show that the municipalities that had the largest no-majority, today actually have the largest relocation. There are no areas where we have equipped the actors with worse export and framework conditions than in the areas that got the largest number of nos. Norwegian fishing industry will face even more difficult periods by not being able to approach a negotiating status that will provide better market conditions, greater participation and greater influence on development. Therefore, as long as we have the attitude to our relationship with Europe and the EEA that we have today, it is clear that we must forget the objectives we have had to make coastal industry the new, large, economic locomotive. It requires far better market access than what we've been equipped with so far. That's why I think the no-parties should take greater responsibility for the areas that today are hit by the greatest decline in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e239	In general, I will focus on the development of defence and security policy in Europe and our relationship with it. Through what has happened in the EU, we have seen a trend that in many ways brings Norway into a very special and difficult situation. At the moment, we are not alone in this, but we share a community with, among other things. Turkey and other non-EU NATO countries. We may not have made enough use of this situation by forming the alliances that are needed to exert pressure on the EU in the dynamics that now prevail. We are in a situation where the EU will obviously run a fast race to ensure political control of vital parts of NATO infrastructure in order to use it in EU-led operations – when and if they had to take place. It is not without concern for us, and should not be, because through such a development we lose influence in many ways. Our influence has so far been in our position in Western European Union, and it has been in our position in NATO. In my view and in the view of the Progress Party, it is essential that we remain restrictive and, perhaps to a greater extent than has now been done, support Turkish positions in the issue of issuing vital NATO components on a permanent basis to the EU. It's natural that you want to prepare this, based on a decision on a case-by-case basis, and have figured out what can be distinguished and distributed. However, when you are about to give carte blanche to the EU, you also have to ask what control we have with this. As I said, Turkey, from its position on the one hand, has seen it as essential and important to ensure its anchoring in NATO through a policy that many may have felt has been somewhat cramping. On the other hand, it is understandable that Turkey is just reacting like that, because Turkey will – like us – continue to be a sort of flank country, even though the cold war time is over. And in Turkish politics, it's not so strange that you look at your neighbors and the threats that exist there, and maybe you're worried that NATO, through the developments that are now taking place, can be weakened. For us, with our position vis-à-vis the European Union, this is also, in my view, a cross of thought. A weakened NATO will inevitably also lead to a weakening of the support that we will continue to be – perhaps relatively – even more dependent on in the future. Here I feel that the government has not done enough to secure our position. I'll go back a little bit to the Western Union. At least there has been a clear parliamentary grounding. So when it seems that the role of the Western Union is taken over by the European Parliament, we are completely without any ground against this parliamentary body. My question is: how can we now work towards greater progress towards EU decision-making in this area? I feel that you have not done enough here to get as much intervention as possible. What you've done is promise strengths. At the same time, however, we need to ask ourselves what control we can exercise if Norwegian forces are to be given to the EU. We have a number of unexplained relationships associated with such a transition. In the situation we are now in, it is obvious to the Progress Party that our dependence on the United States has increased relatively. It will necessarily be necessary for us to be quite responsive to what the United States had to think about security and defence policy in relation to Europe – also in areas up to Europe. Of course, it will also affect how we relate to the purchase and operation of military material, as this should necessarily be anchored to some extent against the one that will be the most likely major partner. I have pointed out that we may have been cautious about anchoring the Norwegian defence and security policy in Europe, and we do feel that we are facing a wall here – a wall that may create significant problems, no matter how we try to approach it. But it must be possible to be more restrained by promising Norwegian forces when we do not have a hand at the same time on the steering wheel. It should also be possible to use Norway’s role as an exporter – not least on the energy side – to exert pressure on those who do not want us to have such an influence we have so far had in NATO and, of course, also through the Western Union. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a tone that in many ways told us that it was the EU trailer that spoke. That's understandable enough. But it's a little difficult to say that you can almost ignore applying for membership in the coming period, while at the same time having all the possibilities open. It is understandable that in the Workers' Party you have a balance between what you want and what you don't dare. So it's okay that you like the fox to make sure you have more exits from here. It has also been said that it will not be relevant to promote ideas about Norwegian membership until the Norwegian people have made clear that they have changed their attitude, and that a majority – a clear majority – through a debate and through the daily activity is showing that things have changed. But if you want to influence it, you have to make sure that arguments that are rooted in reality and that are credible are made. Unfortunately, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs produces his message in this way, I feel that he is in a way undermining the credibility of a message that is later marketed and contains real issues that may change at the course that the Norwegian people have chosen so far. Then trustworthiness is a decisive word. If you think you're supposed to have a different agenda in what you produce from new arguments that could affect the debate, you lose momentum. And here, the Workers' Party has obviously solved a problem. Although the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now pointed to a number of areas that are challenging for Norway, this is constantly ludicrous: Is it true that the sum of these arguments is real, or is there anyone who tries to influence the debate towards EU membership because you want to, not because you have to? This is where I feel that, in the future, the Labour Party has a significant problem. The fact that there is a debate about our relationship with the EU, our anchoring within the EEA, etc., is important – there is no particular doubt about it. But then there should be no doubt about the intentions and the reality of the issues raised to the surface. There are enough of such real problems, but then you have to face this in a way that doesn't raise any doubt about the authenticity of the arguments. It will be a challenge for the Government to contribute to a real debate on where development in Europe is leading us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e265	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e268	Just a short time in the end: at the end of this debate, an opinion has been expressed that some of us who believe the EEA Agreement is important to Norway should have the simple idea that this agreement should be the final answer to all the questions and challenges facing the EU. No, I can answer for myself and for the Christian People's Party. It's a criticism that doesn't hit us, and it can't be placed on us. I used a substantial part of my post here today just to detail the benefits I believe the EEA Agreement has given us, and there is a broad consensus on that. But at the same time, I have emphasised that the EEA Agreement has clear limitations. There is a need for both follow-up under the EEA Agreement and in addition to supplement an agreement to intervene in different policy areas where the EEA Agreement is not applicable. It has been argued that some of those who are not supporters of Norway being a member of the EU should have the opinion that we can pursue an independent foreign policy – whatever it may be. I don't think any country today with the global cooperation structure that it has within foreign policy can operate what could be named that way. Norway is a member of NATO, and it will coordinate a lot of foreign policy. As an active member of the UN, it will also lead our foreign policy. This also applies to the OSCE, the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, and I can mention other advice in which Norway is involved. The important thing is that a sheep is actively working together in foreign policy to achieve important common goals that it stands together for. I believe that we, who are still dependent on being able to weigh benefits and disadvantages against each other in order to settle accounts for Norway's relationship with the EU, have a more – let's say – interesting life. We may also need investigations and discussions other than those that have a fully locked yes-point of view or a locked no-point of view. That is the starting point for some of us to point out shortcomings in the announcement made by the Government, and thus kept Stortinget from getting a more meaningful and more nuanced debate than the one we could have had here today. Finally, I have tabled four proposals on behalf of different parties. They have been commented on in a positive way from both the Right and the Workers' Party. Proposals Nos. So I want to turn 2, 3 and 4 into a transfer proposal to the Government. Proposal No. 1 I ask to be sent to the Presidency without a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e283	The EEA Agreement and its consequences can be characterised by the title of a Day Solstad novel: ‘Try to describe the impenetrable’. The decision-making processes and the amount of documents present major challenges to stakeholder organisations and others who wish to influence. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the spokespersons of the Right and the Labour Party have expressed a positive opinion on the need to facilitate the proper functioning of organisations and other stakeholders with regard to issues that have a significant impact on Norway. I would like to stress that this must be followed up with money and with practical arrangements. Since the will is obviously so good, I ask that the proposals taken up by the Senterpartiet and SV be converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3183]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e307	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e321	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e335	The announcement of Norway's participation in the 55th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations begins by referring to His Majesty the King, who in the main inauguration of the Millennium Assembly said that the world community must invest in the United Nations. This was by reference to the hopes and aspirations of peace and security for all the peoples who are the basis of the UN's values. Let me stress that some of the most important sub-organisations in the United Nations are currently underfunded and that they have a precarious need for the world community to invest. I therefore welcome the increase in aid funds that Norway is now channelling through the UN system. My impression is that UN organisations have an authority and a trust that enables them to contribute to the coordination of development work in each country. I was before Easter in Pakistan, where I, among other things, had conversations with several UN organisations. I was told about the inhumane conditions of Afghan refugees living in border areas, refugees who are mostly women and children. Of course, women cannot be repatriated to the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. This winter these refugees have both starved and frozen. UNHCR, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, is almost the only organisation that can work among just these refugees. It requires increased resources, increased appropriations. The decisions taken at the General Assembly on a new scale of contributions will hopefully lead to a strengthened world organisation economy. The negotiations in the 2nd Committee on Economic and Development focused during the General Assembly on economic issues, in the light of the forthcoming High Level Meeting on Financing for Development, on the preparation of the Conference on Environment and Development, on debt, trade and development, and on the forthcoming MUL conference held in Brussels last week. It is worth noting that developing countries put the greatest emphasis on the international financial structure, and a step forward was taken with the call for stronger representation for developing countries, just in Bretton Woods institutions. The debate on poverty reduction focused on good governance, trade, the fight against HIV/AIDS and education for girls. Norway has a strong primary education priority for girls, but there are still too few training projects that have had a female perspective. Information and education for girls and women are crucial for women’s development and participation. For example, we give priority to: the fight against sexual mutilation in Africa, and have deployed relatively large resources to prevent and combat this type of abuse of small girls. Then we're totally dependent on public education and knowledge. The same can be said of HIV/AIDS. But in general, I would like to stress that developments in many countries in the south are not possible without women changing their status and ensuring health and education. The 55th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations underlines the unique position of the United Nations as an international organisation, with global membership and mandate. Then, of course, the communication describes the considerable diplomatic work undertaken in advance of Norway being elected to the UN Security Council on 10 October. Realistic, low-level and results-oriented are key points that have been used in this room on Norway’s arrangements for the work of the Security Council, where trust is important, inter alia. through dialogue with countries in the south. The Government defined the main objectives for the work of the Security Council as follows: focus on the link between peace and development The UN’s ability to plan and carry out peace operations and, perhaps even more importantly, the special focus on Africa I also refer to the Foreign Minister's statement on the work of the Security Council and the subsequent major debate. The UN in its time was founded with the smoking ruins of World War II as a backstop. The driving force behind the UN Pact was a vision of a world in which war could be prevented by collective action. When the UN Pact came into force six months later, however, the world had seen the first nuclear bomb exploded. The cold war had begun. Today, the threat of nuclear war or weapons of mass destruction no longer stems from the superstate race, but from nuclear material and biological and chemical weapons in the hands of terrorists and unpredictable regimes. Although we do not solve the disarmament problems with resolutions – for we do not – it was nevertheless of great importance that Norway voted in favour of the New Agenda Coalition on the reduction and elimination of nuclear weapons during the 55th General Assembly. Finally – to go back to where I started, to the economic situation of the United Nations: Thorbjørn Jagland underlined in his speech to the General Assembly that we must close the gap between the tasks we ask the United Nations to perform and the resources we provide. It should be a task for us to contribute to the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e375	I will just briefly explain the special comment that SV has in the setting of St.meld. No Thirty-three. In the fall, developments in the Middle East took a dramatic and tragic turn. Ariel Sharon's visit to the temple height on 28 September was the drop that was sought to float over, causing the Palestinian uprising to break out. The uprising consisted primarily of furious and frustrated Palestinian youths who threw stones. Many of us were shocked by the brutality that was shown by the Israeli side in the attempt to overthrow the uprising. Just the fact that Israeli soldiers chose to shoot sharp into crowds was bad enough. It is not easy to forget the TV pictures of the little boy who was shot in the arms of his father one of the first days after the uprising had broken out. SV wanted Norway to have been out in the past with a clearer condemnation of Israel's use of power against the Palestinians in the autumn. SV has questioned whether Norway should have voted in favour of the resolution adopted in the UN on 20 October 2000 on ‘Illegal Israeli actions in occult East Jerusalem’ during a special session. The Communication states that important arguments for abstaining were the lack of balance in the text. Given the very unbalanced situation between Palestinians and Israelis, it may not be so unnatural that such a resolution is not balanced with equal criticism to both sides. As the occupying officer and as the strong military power of the region, it is Israel that must bear the primary responsibility to end the violence, even though both parties have a responsibility. I have reservations that there may have been other more tactical reasons why Norway abstained from voting on the resolution in question, but judged on the basis of the content of the resolution and the dramatic abuses in which Israel committed and committed itself through the way in which the Palestinian uprising was and is being dealt with, SV believes that there are also arguments that we should have voted in favour of this resolution, which was, in any case, adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e386	I will not enter into a debate on the Middle East, it does not belong here, but just state that the Christian People's Party supports the government's policy in this area. We think the government is doing a good job balancing and playing a role in the Middle East. Then it is important to have trust with both parties. I would also refer to the Mitchell report, which was well published today, where one describes critical relationships with both parties, and where only the cessation of acts of violence can bring the parties to the negotiating table and bring a final peace settlement. I basically took the floor to ask if the Foreign Minister could comment on the information in the press a few days ago on the British initiative on the sanctions regime in Iraq. The press showed that this was almost a British move that had been discussed with the Americans, and the Foreign Minister commented in the press that Norway did not seem to have been informed about its contents. But the Foreign Minister commented on it in that way that he assumed that this was fully in line with the initiative that Norway itself has taken as head of the Sanctions Committee, a work that I believe Norway has done very well, where Norway has done a good job and has already been resolved in the situation. But I was a little surprised that there were discussions on these difficult issues without Norway as head of the Sanctions Committee and now also as a member of the Security Council being informed about the initiatives taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e393	Only some comments on the posts of the representative, Mr Rangtvedt. Firstly, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party is clearly distanced from the violence that is taking place in the Middle East, and we also recognise quite clearly that there is an imbalance between the occupying and the occupied. So I want to point out what I said about our work in the Security Council and our work in the United Nations in general, that we want to be results-oriented and realistic, and that what we do is to create trust. With regard to the motion for a resolution, Norway and a number of other Western countries, not least the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark, were concerned that the special session and the resolution would have a negative impact on the further development of the region, and were also concerned whether the special session and resolution should be undermined by the new position of the UN Secretary-General in the peace process. Then I want to show that after this matter has been up in the United Nations, we have received the Mitchell report, as in particular. Very strongly criticises the settlement on the West Bank. I would also like to stress that our own foreign minister has had a very great impact on the wording of that report, and I would say that the content of the Mitchell report is worth much more than any resolution being promoted. And I think maybe sometimes we're going to relate to the role that we have in a given situation, at least we have to relate to that role if we want results from the work that we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e406	I just wanted to answer the question that Steensnæs asked. We were of course informed about the British proposal, but when I said what I said, it was because I took reservations because I didn't know all the details of the paper that was put on the table right at that point. But otherwise, I can say that the proposal put forward by the British could as well have been presented by Norway. It was based on the thoughts and ideas that we had promoted already in February for the US Secretary of State, whom we had developed further, and which were then promoted to the other five permanent members. Once the British have launched it, it is because it is right that one of the five permanent members takes responsibility for this, and now there is a great deal of dialogue between the five permanent members of the Security Council to get all this through. There is a certain hope that it will succeed, but there are still a good deal of remaining problems between the five permanent members of the Council. As far as the special session is concerned, I just want to say that I think it must be a principle that Norway is voting for what is in line with Norwegian policy. We cannot vote in favour of resolutions that are not in line with Norwegian policies that have a broad lashing in this Chamber. If we had voted in favour of the resolution in the special session, we would have simply drawn up another line in the Middle East, and I didn't feel that we should do that in connection with that special session. Moreover, I think it is quite important to note what is stated in the Charter of the United Nations, namely that the General Assembly has left the responsibility for peace and security to the Security Council, and so one should be careful, I think, by drumming together into special sessions, especially in areas which have been clearly placed under the Security Council. So that in itself wasn't a good thing, we felt, and when you came to the point that you weren't able to negotiate a sensible text, there was nothing else to do for us but vote against that text.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e415	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e429	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e448	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, from Einar Steensnæs on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, from Einar Steensnæs on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 5, by Lisbet Ruggtvedt on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 1 to 5 converted into a transmission proposal and amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, says in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Presidency examine the establishment of a Norwegian Parliamentary Office in Brussels.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, says in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government take the initiative to set up the Norwegian House in Brussels with a view to providing information, strengthening transparency and providing knowledge on issues relevant to Norwegian citizens, businesses, organisations and the media.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate an evaluation of the democratic processes associated with the EEA Agreement with a view to making them more transparent, accessible and inclusive. Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government provide an annual overall report to the Stortinget on the implementation of the EEA-relevant decisions in regulations and laws and provide a list of Norwegian EEA cases promoted by ESA and on EEA cases brought before the EFTA Court or Norwegian courts. Proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, in amended form, reads: ‘1. It is recommended that the Government establish a financial support system from which organisations may seek support for the building of competences on EU issues and for impact work on the EU.2. It is recommended that the Government develop procedures to inform relevant organisations at the earliest possible stage on EEA-relevant issues that may have a direct interest in the organisations.3. It is recommended that the Government assess whether increased financial support should be given to the EU work of the parties.» The President proposes that these proposals be submitted to the Government without a trial — and considered adopted. The President will then vote on proposal No. 6, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Advancement Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that Norway does not apply for membership of the EU during the next major period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-22-2.ana.ud1657e581	There is no record.
