ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e36	The called alternate of the South Trondelag County, Heidi K. Larsen, has taken the seat. The representative of Karl N. Meløysund will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e44	One proposal is to open up the commercial catch of king crabs, and the other is to implement measures to prevent Finnmark from losing more trawl concessions and measures to renew fishing activities in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e49	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e70	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Sylvia Brustad State Council Tore Thin State Council Karita Bekkemelm Orheim The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then begin with the first main question, from the representative of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e89	I'd like to ask a question to the Councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. Recently, there's been a part of the media around a certain adoption case. I'm not going to deal with the special issue, because I'm aware of the state council's obligation to participate. But I still want to add that it is sad that one has stood up so that this case has come in the media – if it is not the Council of State's fault that it has come there. What I want to ask the Council of State applies to what was said in the VG on Sunday. There the Council of State says she wants to look at the guidelines and whether the practice is adapted to today's society, and whether we, for example. may place too much emphasis on a family member’s illness or disability and too little emphasis on the family’s overall care ability. When the previous government changed its regulations, a softening was done when it was about physical disability compared to those who are seeking to become adoptive parents. It is therefore of interest to the Stortinget to know what the Council of State is putting in that it should soften even more than what was done in the previous round. What, if any, is to be softened in the regulations when it relates to the right to become an adoptive parent?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e100	I want to start by saying a little about the specific matter that has been mentioned in the media, and that has also been stated by the representative, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, together with several others. I would like to say that there are very serious characteristics and accusations expressed in this case, given by a single case handler at SUAK. Evneveik, mentally retarded, mental retardation are characteristics that are given and that are immediately accepted by both individual representatives in this room and by the media. On top of all, I want to distance myself from basing my decisions on a well-meaning compassion. I actually base them on a very thorough social report, the position of the Children's Committee and the clear recommendation of the local doctor. I think this is clearly professional recommendations and not feelings. It is very strong to be accused of not putting the best of children ahead of the needs of adults. Of course, the conclusions of different disciplines will be different. We have many examples of that, and former government council elected Svarstad Haugland also knows that that is the situation. With regard to the specific question asked by the representative, I believe that we, among other things, should: I have to see if the appeals we have today are correct. Is it true that there is a department that is going to make appeals, or should we do as the Ministry of Local Affairs has done when it comes to their decisions in foreign affairs? There may be assessments we should go in and look carefully at. So we also know that there are different perceptions of age and disability. Is it true that if you have the migrants, a disability, you should not be considered a caregiver who is able to be a parent for a child? Those are the things that we have to go in and look at, and that I've made myself clear after that year I've been sitting in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e111	I actually didn't ask about that matter, so I had hoped that the council had spent the time answering my question. It went in the direction. Now, in the current direction, we have a softness of age. There is a great deal of freedom to vary in age for those who are going to become adoptive parents. The physical disability guidelines were also softened. I would also like to refer to Sissel Grasli, who participated in Editorial Committee 21 on Monday. She took the decision from the Council of State as a sign that mental disabilities should also be given easier access to adoption. Therefore, it is of interest for the Storting to know whether it is the procedures or the contents of the Council of State to change when it concerns the guidelines. The first part of the answer showed that it was the procedures. It's relatively easy to tackle. But is the content to be softened even more in relation to the orientation lines? That's what I'm asking, and that's what I want to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e118	The representative also received a very clear response. Not only are the procedures to be considered, but one should also go in and look at some of the matters that have been transformed by the ministry. In the last two years, 19 cases have been converted. Then it is also important to look at what kind of decisions SUAK has done that the ministry believes it is right to go in and change. That’s the way it is – and we’ve been told in the last few days by case handlers in SUAK – that one actually believes that age may be too liberally practiced today. I haven't concluded, but I say maybe we should look at it. With regard to disability, there are not a few individual representatives in this room who have raised the matter with me after SUAK made a clear decision on the matter. This may mean that the Storting will also be interested in us getting a review of the criteria according to which SUAK makes its decisions. That's two things. It's both procedure and case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e125	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e128	Now it was the state council itself that put this matter on track, so I want to ask a question in that context. All the professional bodies have waived the fact that this adoption is to take place. So it turns out in the media today, for example. in the Sunnmørspost, that it is a prominent, long-standing state politician from the states council who in a personal letter asked for his daughter's right to adoption in this matter. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: to what extent has this affected the response of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e135	I want to repeat what I said in my reply to Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. It is that my decision has not been made on the basis of a simple enquiry by a politician representing a completely different party from my own. If you had had insight into all the enquiries that come to a specialist council, you would have seen that one cannot be controlled by emotion. Then I think one had come short. But we are clearly based on professional assessments made by local authorities, by children's protection authorities and by the social apparatus, which has provided a thorough social report on this matter. I would like to say that when the local councillor concludes that the couple will be able to give a child a very good and caring home, I think it will be strong when you make claims that a player has feelings, and that one has not taken on the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e143	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e146	It is good that the department should be a real appeal body, but then it must be as a guarantee that potential adoptive parents are treated according to the guidelines, not in order to review the clear and unambiguous advice given in this case. It is well possible that there is a basis for reviewing the guidelines for foreign adoption. But does not the Council of State see that she now prejudges such a review as she herself suggests, by allowing adoption in this case, in such a contentious case? In an article in the VG, the Council of State states that it is important to listen to the professional assessments given in the municipality of residence. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the professional assessments carried out in the local environment are much more important than the clear and unambiguous advice given by the two central authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e155	First, I would like to say that I am a little tempted to ask questions about the basis on which you have to say that all the advice has been ‘clear and unambiguous’, when you have not had an insight into this matter. Here you accept a presentation without having had the opportunity to enter and evaluate the whole of this case. The reason I use the opportunity to get into this case is that there have been so strong claims from Stortinget as it has. But when it connects to the question I got, I actually think it's right to comment on it on a general basis, because it's serious accusations you make. I believe that a social office and a local doctor who has been following a family for many years, through their vocational training, is able to give an assessment of a married couple who are applying for adoption. There may, of course, be different professional judgements and assessments. Of course it will. And just to end, if you're having your own biological children or if you're an adopter, no one can guarantee that you're going to be a good parent for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e164	Grethe G. Fossum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e167	I have a great understanding that this is a difficult matter, and I am very sorry that this matter has been widely discussed in the media. The reason why I took the word here now is that I think it's very difficult when a person is applying to be allowed to adopt and hanged out in the media as a weak and mentally retarded – at all very transparent in the community from which he comes, considering the mental state she's considered to be in. My question is therefore: What action will the Council of State take to end this kind of leakage from SUAK? And what will she do with the newspapers that have gone out with information about individuals who are easily recognizable and who are very vulnerable in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e176	It's true, as the representative Fossum says, that this matter is serious in many ways. Not only because a trade union council gets criticism from the opposition on the Stortinget – I think the vast majority of government councils can live with that, it should be in a democratic system – but what is actually bad, and what I think we are going to think about, is that in a Norwegian municipality there are two people who have applied for adoption and who have complained about their case. What they have experienced, through various editorial articles in almost all the country's newspapers, is being presented as a weakness. And I want to ask, who is it today that uses the term «feasibility» without having the opportunity to go into the matter and look at what is the situation for this family? It's not just about a woman who's trying to get permission to adopt a child. There are two people who are applying for adoption of a child and who experience such an outreach in all the public. I can promise that we will carefully assess how we will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e183	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e186	I believe that the Council of State will represent a real appeal body, and on that basis I will commend the Council of State for reaching a different conclusion. We see too often in immigration and refugee matters that you don't. But what I want to ask is: if the advice is so unambiguous in the municipality – from the local councillor, from the social services, from those involved – what could be the reason for the opposite conclusion in relation to the recommendations that have been made? In this case, it must be unfortunate if you have a professional assessment on the basis of which you point strongly in one direction, that the professional level to be first assessed concludes in contrast to the advice given by professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e193	Yeah, that's very thoughtful. This has been a strong case in many ways, and it is not without reason that the Ministry has made decisions that both SUAK and Professional Selection have made. I understand that both the Storting and the media are interested in getting insight into some parts of this matter, but I also ask for an understanding that, in the interests of the two people involved, we cannot go beyond what we have now done. But it's my responsibility. All the decisions taken in this case are my responsibility. And I stand upright on the decision we have made in this matter. In the case of non-transformation of foreign affairs in the ministry, it is a matter of having transformed the system — one has transferred them to a body other than the ministry. That is why I say that in reviewing this, it is right to assess whether the appeal process is good enough, whether it is real and whether individuals in Norway are adequately treated by public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e204	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e207	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The listing of patients according to the fixed medical system evolves into the pure scandal, at my discretion. Several thousand dead patients are on the list of regulars, families who have used regulars for more than ten years, are split up into several doctors, people living in the West, are listed in the East and vice versa, and some are led up to a regular who does not exist – and finally, about. 300,000 Norwegian citizens do not get a fixed medical order from 1 June because they lack a doctor. Some media lookups can tell you that they will make up to NOK 700,000 a year without having seen one of their list patients – and according to the scheme, the municipality will have an extra cost of about EUR 700,000 per year. 300 million. kr. Does the Minister of Health still think that we have a free choice of medicine in the fixed medical system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e219	Yeah, I mean it, actually. I also believe that so far the work on the implementation of the fixed medical system shows that this is going very well. There are between 3 million and 3.5 million Nordics who have now submitted forms and been assigned permanents through this scheme. Over 90 pst. they've got regulars that they've applied for, and that's a very good count. In relation to what could be expected of practical problems in implementing such a large and comprehensive case as this, I would say that the problems that arise are very small. But it is clear that there is more than enough good stuff to look up the type that the representative here refers to – much of it I have to say was also expected. For example, when you have: indicates that dead people are assigned permanent staff, it is not difficult to calculate statistically when a three-month period, which is actually a short time in relation to the task here, from 3.3 million people submit applications for permanent staff until they are allocated, how many thousands will die in the period that you do not have the opportunity to capture through deployment. They are not unexpectedly any of the issues that have arisen, but they are fewer than what you had to expect, and I am very optimistic about the possibilities of correcting the errors that have arisen here within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e228	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but he could also have told me how many thousands of patients have not received the doctor they had before. There's nothing to say about it. I have registered in the media that Norway may be sued before the ESA Court because in fact, in Norway, the fixed medical system imposes a professional ban on general practitioners from EEA countries. This infringes the freedom of establishment applicable in the EEA territory. It won't be possible, I think, for a general practitioner from EEA countries to be able to feed in Norwegian municipalities without receiving reimbursement from popular security, which is only reserved for doctors. How does the Minister of Health view this problem that has emerged in relation to the fixed medical system and the EEA? And does the Minister of Health think that Norway can avoid a conviction in the ESA Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e235	First of all, I have no problem telling you how many people have not received the decision-maker they have asked for. If it's 93 pst. Which has got the one they've asked for, it's 7 pst. which they have not asked for, and I think that is equivalent to 200 000. That doesn't mean that there can't be anyone else who's had a doctor other than the one they've already had, because it's not safe that everyone's asked to have the doctor they've already had. That's another question that I don't have a number for. With regard to the issue of the possibility for doctors from the EEA region to establish themselves in Norway, I believe that at least it is not in any way complicated by the fixed medical system. That's a statement I'm going to contest. That there are difficulties in setting up doctors across borders is, but I believe that in Norway we are making it possible to do so to a large extent, and we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e242	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e245	We've all seen the headlines that have been around in the media that we've all now been assigned a doctor. Being awarded to a doctor at least those who are signed belong to a completely different society from the Norwegian one, but I will leave that behind. What I want to ask the Council of State is what's going on with ESA and the problem around it. Let's take a simple example: there are some doctors who want to establish themselves in Norway. After this reform has now been introduced and the citizens of this country have been allocated to the individual lists, how will these doctors, among other things, receive. the same possibilities as Norwegian doctors to receive reimbursement from the public by establishing themselves in Norway, when all patients are already distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e252	I believe that in this case there will in principle not be any other issues related to the establishment of new doctors if they come from the EEA territory, other than whether new Norwegian doctors are going into the system. I find it hard to understand that this can be a problem with ESA, but if it is, we have to deal with it as a matter of whether it should come. I don't want to go into it any further. But as I said, the problem as I see it is not different for doctors from the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e257	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e260	In the morning news yesterday one could hear that patients who need consultations with a specialist need to receive new referrals from their permanent staff every year. The scheme should be put in place as a result of the permanent medical scheme. There are many different reasons why you need to go to a specialist regularly when you have a chronic illness, for example: in the case of post-treatment for cancer. What is the reason why the department has attached such a condition to the fixed medical system? In my opinion, it leads to the wasteful use of time and resources both in the healthcare system and for the patient himself. Does the Minister of Health think that this is a reasonable use of resources in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e267	This is at least not intended to make useless use of the total resources of healthcare. Even today, it is common for a general practitioner to be referred to as a specialist, and it is natural for it to be passed on to a fixed medical system, and that it is the reference from the local authority that will be the starting point. But it is quite right, as the representative points out, that there are many who will have a regular need for specialist treatment. There is no point in making it more complicated through the fixed medical system than it is today. There will be full opportunity to have ongoing consultation and treatment of specialists after a first reference, and there will be very simple procedures for renewing it from one year to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e272	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e275	I record that the Progress Party is doing what they can to then doubt the fixed medical system. There are some numbers I would like to have illuminated, possibly confirmed, from the Council of State. As far as I know, it's 99.5 pst. of the Norwegian population who have now joined the fixed medical scheme. A number of 93 pst. has been mentioned in respect of the fulfilment of the choice of permanent medical examiner. In addition, it has been stated on several occasions that the doctor will be able to receive NOK 700000 without receiving a single patient. As far as I understand, that figure represents a subsidy to the practice associated with the patient-related obligations, in the amount of 1000 to perhaps 2,000 patients, and then the grant will vary. But an obvious obligation is that patients will then be treated, and that these means, if you reserve the right to receive patients under the agreement, will not be paid either. Can the Minister of Health confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e285	I think I can confirm everything that is being said here. Without I can calculate the percentage in my head right now, it's about. 25 000 who have chosen to remain outside the fixed medical scheme. The rest of the population who have been given the opportunity to join have joined the fixed medical system. It's also true that it's 93 pst. by those who have chosen a doctor who has received the doctor they have asked for at the first time. There is already a comprehensive process to carry out the exchange and improvement and correction of the errors that have occurred, which we had to expect would occur in this first and very extensive review, but which is therefore less extensive than the one we are talking about. This number, NOK 700,000, that you can supposedly get that amount without seeing a patient, is a maximum theoretical number. There is, of course, an allocation — it is clear that, over a year, if none of the patients assigned to a permanent practitioner is ill or have other medical needs, the grant is there independent, and it will also be largely the opposite in a wide range of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e290	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e293	I see the Minister of Health standing still, and he has good reason for that, because I also have a question for him. If not, the fixed medical scheme is a scandal, the project will at least have obvious entry problems. It also has another and perhaps even more important patient rights, namely the right to free hospital choice. Patients should, of course, have this in order to be able to receive more rapid treatment where capacity is available. But unfortunately, there is no more than a week between each time we hear that this reform is not working either, despite the fact that you have had quite a while to prepare. The last example was well brought forward in the Day Revy on Saturday, and it turns out that the public has not been able to get a system to work so that doctors get information about where there is free capacity. Nevertheless, there is a private group called GetMedic, who has developed a system that is up-to-date, just to be able to provide patients with rapid treatment. Why not take advantage of this? Why should public spending time and a lot of money on developing systems when there is already one and you can buy services from the private? So my question is, will the Department of the Council of State contact these to make the system of free hospital choice work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e300	Once again, I just have to say that I will not claim that the fixed medical system, which will come into force in a short time, has ‘clear entry problems’, but that with such a comprehensive case as this is about, there will be a number of issues in the start-up phase, is not unexpected. I'll say they're less far than you had to expect. Furthermore, it is not unexpected that such a comprehensive reform as free hospital choice over a run-in period will have weaknesses. Just as the problem pointed out by the representative, Mr Höegh, is both an expected weakness and a problem that I think you should also be prepared to be there for some time to come. It is related to the availability of information on not only available capacity, but perhaps also quality and other aspects of treatment provision at individual hospitals. It is not difficult to imagine that when one goes from a situation where it has not been common to provide the type of information to the population in a broad context, to a situation where the whole population should be able to make use of free hospital choice based on information about it — yes, then one goes from a lack of information to a situation where there is a significant need for information and information requirements. You don't have the power to do that from one day to another – I think it'll take time. There will be a task for the public regardless of making sure that kind of information comes, and there will be a task or a market also for others to provide, as GetMedic does, that that information comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e307	Now the Council of State spoke for two minutes without being able to answer my simple question, namely, Will he contact these, who actually has a system up and going? Because it is no less serious that free hospital choice does not work for patients because if the Council of State had expected there would be weaknesses in the introduction. It doesn't make the seriousness of it not working, less that you've expected that there will be problems. But it's pretty serious, I think, to all the Norwegian patients who would like to have treatment faster, if the state says no at all in this drive-in phase to a private offer that's there, which is not expensive, that might be cheaper to use than that public in all the regions will get this system up and go. Also, in terms of the provision of foreign treatment, there is clearly a major public problem — so far, there are some hundreds of patients who have been communicated. Here too, GetMedic has an offer to make. So I repeat my question: When will the Council of State contact Norwegian patients for the rights we have given them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e312	I was not supposed to answer the question – it is possible that I misunderstood it a little. However, there is contact with both GetMedic and other private individuals who want to develop offers in terms of providing information on capacity conditions and other conditions at treatment institutions in Norway. So it's not a problem that there's no contact with them. Another issue is: should the public in a way dissociate itself from the task of developing that information? Should a person rely solely on private individuals to do so and, where appropriate, enter into contracts with private individuals to do so instead of the public authorities? There are some issues where we haven't concluded. But at least it is not that there is no contact with them, and it is also that I encourage private communication of that kind of information to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e317	In line with the requirement for fixed medical devices and others, the President has noted many fixed clients related to follow-up questions. We'll start with Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e320	I had hoped that the president would also repeat this today with regular customers, because then I could have replied that the customer is always right, and that the president would probably also agree with that. I am a little surprised when the Council of State, Tønne, says that he has not concluded that it is a clear public responsibility to ensure that the free choice of hospitals is made available to patients without self-interest, and that the public has a clear responsibility to ensure that this is in place. A public patient service should be set up to solve this problem-free for patients. And it should, in the SV's view, be a clear task for the public, and not an opening for a new business area for even more people to make money on people's needs for health care. So the question becomes quite specific: will the Council of State ensure that such a scheme is in place, or is it necessary for the Stortinget to make proposals for such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e329	It shall not be necessary for the Storting to make a proposal for such a scheme. I have probably expressed myself unclear in my attempt to respond to the representative, Höegh, if it is perceived that I had not concluded that this is a public responsibility. It is a public responsibility to ensure that there is transparency in the market – if you can call it the market – i.e. that the population has satisfactory information on the treatment services available to them at the different treatment institutions in the country. What I had not concluded was the question of the extent to which the public in the exercise of that responsibility should also enter into agreements with or rely on the fact that it is private who is also working on that type of information provision, and the way in which it is to be done. There are questions that I have to assess, and that I have not yet concluded. But in any case, it is not a matter of public responsibility not to ensure that that information comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e339	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e342	I also responded to the state council statement, which I thought was a little too defensive. I believe that it must be a public matter and a public responsibility to run this patient service. And I have additional questions for the Minister of Health: Is it not that there are particularly serious problems in having high-cost medicine carried out in Norway, cf. The National Hospital and its situation? What is the situation of the other regional hospitals? How many of the patients who are going to be treated from high-cost medicine or as long-term opt-outs are the ones who are not being treated there? I think it is a cross of thought that we are now sending some out of the country for treatment for relatively simple suffering, while these who then have major problems are not receiving treatment, and I would like to ask the Minister of Health to explain a little bit about the situation of the other regional hospitals. I believe that we need a national health plan rather than the reform that the Minister of Health is now in favour of, with national overview and dissemination – i.e. under public responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e350	I'm probably not able to explain the situation of the country's regional hospital in the case of patients who have to wait for treatment for so-called high-cost medicine. It's a problem that I think applies to all regional hospitals, but of course not least in relation to the nationwide functions, whether they're at the Rikshospital or at other hospitals. So, to put it that way, it's not a problem that's limited to the situation at the Rikshospitalet. In this context, I would say that the main starting point for treatment abroad has been to reduce the waiting time for patients, whether there are complex issues or in particular simple issues to be dealt with. It can be as unpleasant for those who have to wait. And then it has been natural that suffering that has been treated relatively easily has come at first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e357	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e360	The fact that free hospital choice does not work has a bearing on the fact that county municipalities have so far used the long waiting lists as a game to get more money. We have the same inertia in sending patients abroad, where the vast majority of hospitals are very reluctant to recommend patients to be treated abroad. I have received several enquiries from patients who are on the waiting list for up to 12, 14, 18 months within orthopaedics, and who have never received any request from their own hospital if they could imagine being operated on in another hospital. So this information issue -- which the Minister of Health himself was talking about -- I think is a very important point. What further will the Minister of Health do to ensure that this information does not just come as an open information, but that it will almost be a requirement for hospitals to inform patients properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e367	I'm going to be careful to say that what's happening is a result of some game of money or other things, but I'm familiar with, and also think myself, that it's too late to take advantage of the opportunities that lie both within free hospital choice in Norway and treatment abroad. There are great differences, but I'm well aware that there have been enough information in many ways at least the hospitals and the health services that these possibilities exist, and that it will be necessary to impose on the hospitals that have the type of waiting times that the representative here refers to, that they should do what they can in terms of exploiting the treatment opportunities abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e374	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e377	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Yesterday, a report was published on behalf of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on the relocation of government jobs from Oslo. An assessment has been made of Aetat's operating and user support in Steinkjer, of NSB's customer phone at Fauske and the National Library of Mo in Rana. The report concludes that the country has a gain not only in terms of rent and wages but also in terms of sick leave, stability and recruitment of labour. My question will then be: how will this report be carried out by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e384	That report, as the representative said, has recently arrived, so we must allow it to go through before I can give an answer on how we will follow it up. But the government has already done more concrete things. The first is that we have now adopted new guidelines for a state localisation policy, with which the representative is certainly familiar. Now, the general rule is that, in the creation of new state jobs, they should be established outside Oslo. It must be very good reason for them to be established in Oslo. This principle should also apply in the event of major reorganisations, and we are also open to relocating work in existing jobs. Of course, this is essential if we are to manage to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, as the Workers' Party is also very concerned. I can also mention some other concrete things that we have done: the transfer of the Enok Centre to Trondheim, the administration of the Court of Trondheim, where the Stortinget has joined the Government's proposal, the merger of the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection and the Product and Electricity Authority, which has moved to Tønsberg, the transfer of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund, the duty management of Hamar and the management training of Halden. These are concrete jobs that are set up outside Oslo, and it's going to come more from this government in the near future. We're also going to do a review to see if there's anything in the ministry system or surrounding agencies that can be moved out, and we've reduced a separate group that looks at this. The answer is: This is the Government very concerned. We've already done a whole bunch of things and are going to do more concrete things in the near future. In this context, of course, we will also go through this report carefully, and we will come up with further measures as soon as possible, because I fully agree that there are many good reasons for establishing jobs outside the central east region, also in view of the factors mentioned by the representative, in relation to local rent, stable labour, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e395	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the Council of State is concerned with these issues, and it is also good that the Government has already adopted guidelines for job creation. In my view, this report makes a myth that only the districts should be at the bottom of the relocation of jobs. Let me stress that it seems to me to be an important concern, but what's new in this report is that the state itself can have a great deal of profit on emigration. Then I expect the Council of State to show additional commitment in addition to what it has already shown, and that she will come back to the Storting with a plan for relocation where the costs have also been calculated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e404	There can be no doubt about the involvement. Without me to praise the government I am sitting in the water, I have to say that I think this government has got a lot in a year. I also have to say that at least more concrete things have already been done in terms of the relocation of jobs than what was done in the time spent by the Bondevik administration, according to the overview I have. But that's not the point, because I think the Workers' Party and the Centre agree that it's important to establish jobs outside Oslo, not just, as the representative says, for the sake of the districts, but because it can pay off both for the state and for others. Let me use an example. When RIMI-Hagen moves his accounting department to Wågå in Gudbrandsdalen, a small district municipality, it is of course because it is profitable for that company. There is stable labour force. There's the cheaper rent, and it's organized by the municipality. It also shows that in the time we live in, with the technology opportunities and everything we have, it doesn't matter whether the jobs are located in a small district municipality or whether they are centrally located. It gives our districts unique opportunities, and I'll guarantee that the commitment to this will be as great as it has been the year we've been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e411	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e414	I want to follow up on a theme that I've had a couple of times in the last week, and it's about the relocation of state jobs in general and the relocation of the police's data service to Gran in particular, where the police's material service is already in place. No answers or comments were given either by the Council of State Knudsen or by the Council of State Harlem in the current debates. I can choose to interpret it so that the one who 10s, agrees, but I think it's a little too naive. Fortunately, the Storting decided that the police's computer service and the police's material service should have joint management added to Gran. My question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is whether she will take the necessary initiatives as a specialist regional development council to have these institutions co-located to Gran, such as the comment of the majority in the Netherlands. No 241 for 2000-2001 indicates, and which, not least, her party traps, like other parties in Gran and Uppland, are very concerned about happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e422	Now I know the rapporteur at Gran quite well, and that means that I have heard a lot about this matter, to say it that way. But I'm asking for an understanding that I can't give a clear answer to this right now. What I'm saying is that the government is now going through everything that is of concrete things. Of course, there is also what the representative deals with in relation to the municipality of Gran, and we will come back with clearer answers in the near future. I can't say a clear yes to that right here above the table in the main hall. But there is no doubt that this is the principle of government, and it will mean more concrete jobs outsourced to the districts. If it gets exactly the way it's wanted in Gran or elsewhere, we have to look a little bit closer, but we're going to come back with further concreteization in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e430	I have a question for the Minister of Health. At the NRK News this morning it was reported that according to the figures that the Ministry of Health itself is sitting on, there are 150 dental positions that are now unoccupied, especially in District Norway. The counties of Troms, Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane and Hedmark shall be particularly severely affected. There is a great shortage of dentists, especially in District Norway, and if this development is not stopped soon, still based on the Ministry of Health’s own figures, we will have about one in 2005. 600 dentists too little. SV has previously mentioned that dental training must be started at the University of Tromsø and has also suggested intermediate solutions, among others. with a cooperation with the University of Umeå to use places there. I also know that there has been an offer from the University of Umeå to the Ministry of Health asking about it, without the question being answered as far as I know. What will the Minister of Health do to address this situation and improve it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e439	It's right, as the representative Ballo says, that we're facing an increasing dental imbalance, a deficiency, whether you want to use that term, in terms of dentists for the permits we have and the needs we'll see in the future. I can also confirm the numbers that are referred to. They come from the department's own forecasts of development. We recognize that this is a serious problem and that it will be. As far as corrective measures are concerned, the main long-term measure is to increase our own training capacity for dental practitioners. Other measures on the education side are also important, including: training of dental nurses who can meet some of the needs that are also addressed here. Both of these things will be proposed in the near future and to implement such expansion of capacity that will result from it. In this context, in the near future, the government will also decide where to put such dental training, and I am fully aware of the concerns that apply in terms of applying dental training to Tromsø. But there are questions that we'll come back to in the near future. In the short term, it is also important to increase opportunities for both training of Norwegians abroad and the recruitment of dentists from abroad. We have measures in place to that end. When it comes to the question of Umeå, I have to get back to it when it has been assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e450	I noticed that the Minister of Health used almost a bit in quotation marks the term ‘deficiency’. I mean, he was out with his fingers and he gave me a little quote. Does it mean that the Minister of Health also sees this as a problem of distribution, i.e. That you've got a density of dentists in parts of the country that are relatively large, so that not only should you train more dentists, but grab hold to get a better distribution of the dentists we already have? In this respect, I would like to stress that SV has proposed closer cooperation between private dental practitioners and the public dental service. Does the Minister of Health see that this could be an opportunity for a better distribution, by being able to recruit dental practitioners also for private practice in places where you cannot currently recruit for the public dentistry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e455	The representative Ballo interpreted my hand movements correctly. It was a quotation mark. I do not mean to doubt that there is a total deficiency in the normal meaning of the word. But it is also a major problem of distribution. It has to be expressed, among other things. when assessing the location of future education, because we know that it is important for future localisation and recruitment to the different parts of the country as well. But I am most open to those thoughts that relate to a better interaction between public and private people in dental care, which I am in the area of health care for the rest. But it's clearly an area where we can do more to correct the imbalances we have today in the distribution of dental services in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e460	There will be follow-up questions - Ola D. Lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e463	It's not that long since we've been dealing with dental services here in Stortinget. Then the centre party went in to get a full dental education in Tromsø. Something was warned against it, not least from the professional environments, and it was said that there was not so much lack of dentists as you might assume. Now we've got the numbers on the table today, approx. 600 dentists in minus in 2005, and I would like to ask: is it that we have too poor overviews, too poor parameters in terms of part of our healthcare system, so that for that reason too there is too little predictability and too little ability to act on time? We know that it takes six to seven years for those who are starting to graduate today to be fully trained. I want to ask the Minister of Health about this with the distribution and totality of lack of dentists. Should we also have a better national overview here, and is the reform we might need in the Norwegian health care system, including dental care, a national plan and an overview that allows us to distribute better, both geographically and in total?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e470	I believe that in itself is natural that there is a certain discussion about how big the deficiency is and how this will develop. It'll probably be between professional environments and others, too, because it's about predictions, and they'll always be obsessed with uncertainty. I don't want to say for that reason that they're necessarily too bad, but there may be different assessments of how the uncertainty might turn out in the future, which makes it a discussion about it. Notwithstanding that discussion, I believe that it is undisputed that we have a defect, and will have an increasing deficiency in the years to come. There is no doubt that there is a need to increase educational capacity. As far as this is concerned with a national plan, I agree that there is a need for it. However, I do not agree that it is contrary to the other reforms that are now being implemented in the health sector. On the contrary, I believe that they improve the assumptions for developing that kind of plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e479	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e482	My question goes to the family minister. We are currently recording that the Minister for Family Affairs is once again moving borders within family policy, and by introducing a new practice on adoption issues. I listened to the Government's response earlier today, and I recorded that all the content of the answer was about two adult people who had applied for adoption, and as the Council of State in a way expressed it was treated unfairly both by politicians and by the press. I thought the family minister might have been more concerned with the child's situation and the best of the children, and I note that the Council of State has also stressed this in various media. And then I'm going to challenge the Council of State: what is the basis for this adoption case, which is the best thing for the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e492	The President will note that the question has been raised as a main issue earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e495	But I can give you an answer, President. First, I want to take a very strong distance from the game I now feel that some representatives in this room start with, and that's to make the impression that someone doesn't take the best of the children. It doesn't have the representative Sandberg or anyone else in this room a single basis or a point of reference to say, and there are claims that have been taken entirely out of – yes, I don't know what expression I'm going to use – all context. What we take from all the assessments we make in relation to appeals in our department is, of course, the consideration of the children's best interests. I underlined in my previous post, and the representative Per Sandberg has no point of saying that this government is not putting the child's best interests ahead of everything. However, there will be various professional assessments of what will be acceptable, on which basis one can give an adoption, but it will be quite wrong to say that we have not built on professional assessments in the matter we have dealt with in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e504	I thank you for your answer. As for my basis for commenting, if I don't get it deepened through the Questionnaire, at least the Council of State would draw attention to the fact that I am going to follow the matter up in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting, because it is clear that what is said here in the Questionnaire today is not good enough in relation to this matter. It is not good enough that the Council of State here in a way makes the person functionally healthy through their answers, when the professional community has concluded in a completely different way. I also draw attention to the fact that the department's own independent selection went against this case when it came to adoption. We have also received reactions internationally to this matter, and my other question, which may not have been asked earlier today, is this: what does this mean for all those in Norway today who want a foreign adoption, when the reactions become this way? I would also like to follow up with a significant question: would the Council of State have concluded the same if it had been a Norwegian child?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e515	Of course, we would have concluded the same thing if the child was Norwegian. The representative knows very well that the guidelines we are dealing with are similar to those adopted in Norway and abroad. I also ask for an understanding that, as I said, there are two people who are sitting out in a municipality and are entitled to a proper handling of their case. They require the authorities to go in and assess it properly. To give the kind of characteristics that have been given in this case, and that I now also feel that the representative Per Sandberg is trying to do, I think we should refrain. I think we should have confidence in the assessments that have been made – if not the social office, the municipal and child protection committees have provided incorrect information in this case. Then it will be very serious. But that's the information we've been building on in the decision we've taken in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e522	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e527	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Agriculture, this question is moved and answered before question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Inge Wohnung and Rolf Rekvam, respectively, to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e543	«In the early morning of 17 May, Vietnamese Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly was arrested in Hué, Vietnam. About 600 police officers surrounded the church where he was preparing the morning fair, and he was apprehended and led away. The authorities also maintain a strict watch over the Buddhist monk Thich Quang Do, nominated at the Nobel Peace Prize. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs protest at the treatment of the two, and what can Norway do to promote freedom of religion and democracy in Vietnam?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e550	The work on human rights is deeply anchored in Norwegian foreign policy. The main objective of the Government’s international human rights work is to ensure that human rights are respected in all countries. This also applies in relation to the situation in Vietnam. The human rights situation in Vietnam has improved significantly over the past 10-15 years, although much remains. The general Vietnamese have gained greater freedom, and the rapid economic development of the last decade has resulted in considerably more people living above the poverty line. The political and civil rights in the country have improved, while the Vietnamese authorities show greater openness in their willingness to discuss human rights and democracy. However, there are still restrictions on freedom of expression, freedom of religion and assembly, while there is discrimination against ethnic minorities. From the Norwegian side, we are working actively to contribute to the promotion of freedom of religion and democracy in Vietnam. Vietnam has until recently opposed any discussion of human rights issues. Norway is currently the only country Vietnam has been willing to join a human rights dialogue. In our cooperation with Vietnam, we also support projects with a clear human rights profile. Our embassy in Hanoi also has regular contact with the Vietnamese authorities on these issues – including questions related to free religious practice. In this context, I would also mention that the Government has followed up an invitation issued by former Prime Minister Bondevik to the Vietnamese Prime Minister in 1999, to visit a Vietnamese delegation to Norway to study the Norwegian legal system. The visit is now scheduled for November this year. The Constitution of Vietnam guarantees freedom of religion, but the authorities follow the organized religious practice of the country very closely. The issue of religious freedom therefore has a central place both on the international agenda and in the bilateral contacts Norway has with Vietnam. The government is concerned that the Catholic priest Ngyen Van Ly is arrested, and that the strict guard over the Buddhist monk Thich Quang Do is being continued. From the Norwegian side, we will now consider how best to deal with the matter with Ngyen Van Ly and Thich Quang Do with Vietnamese authorities. We will also maintain close contact with other countries in the further follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e572	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think it is positive that Norway has a human rights dialogue with Vietnam, and that the authorities will now consider how to follow up the cases for these two people. It was a dramatic situation when the Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly was arrested in the 5-hour in the morning of May 17. When the church was surrounded, there were 150 people present in the church, many of whom were also beaten and arrested. According to news reports, Father Ly was placed in a prison in Hué, but he has since he was arrested, starved, and a few days ago it was announced that he has ended up in a hospital for treatment. What I'm asking is whether the Norwegian authorities can help Father Ly get a fair trial, that a case be brought against him so that he gets a trial, that he is brought before a court, and that he can get a lawyer. Can Norway contribute to his treatment under the Declaration of Human Rights, signed by Vietnam?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e581	As I said, we will now carefully consider how we can follow up this matter. It's a long tradition to do exactly what Lars Rise here asks about, namely to work for everyone to have a fair follow-up to their case under the rule of law. So it's clear that one of the sides that we now have to evaluate is how we can help get it done. But I can't say anything more now about how we're going to proceed, because that's what we have to carefully consider based on what makes the case itself, i.e. these two persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e586	The other person I mentioned, Thich Quang Do, has written a letter to the authorities asking that his superior, Thich Huyen Quang, be released. He's 83 years old. He has now been under house arrest for 19 years and is very weak. Thich Quang Do has not received an answer to this letter. Instead, they have stepped up the guard around him – the telephone line has been cut since April 9, and all visitors are searched carefully before they leave the temples there. There is now great concern that Thich Quang Do and his followers will face problems from the authorities in connection with the trip where they will pick up his superior home to Saigon for a medical examination. I wonder if Norway can take initiatives to also use economic instruments? We've seen that the World Bank has held back credits and loans, so we have some Norwegian investments. Will the Foreign Minister also look at the possibilities of economic instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e593	We're still giving some assistance to Vietnam, although it's very little now. We have no tradition of using assistance in such individual cases. In terms of economic activity with Vietnam in addition to aid, it has always been Norwegian policy that we do not impose unilateral boycotts on countries. That is what we want to be anchored in the United Nations. Among other things, we have complained that the United States has used such unilateral boycotting measures too often and in too many cases, so it is not relevant. But I think the most important thing now is to look at what we can do in the context of the dialogue that we have with Vietnam, and then see the results of it before considering any new steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e598	Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e604	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘Sectoral supervisor Lindemann of the intensive care unit for newborns in Ullevål Hospital submitted in January this year a report on latent injuries at school age for premature infants born before 25 weeks of age with a body weight of 1500 grams. Sensitising injuries at school age were identified in this report for one in four of the prematurity children. What measures does the Council of State consider necessary to reduce sensitivities in premature infants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e613	It is estimated that 4,000 children are born prematurely, i.e. before the 37th week of pregnancy. Of these, approx. 600 children before the 28th week of pregnancy. In the 1980s and 1990s, the proportion of survivors has increased sharply. This has occurred as a result of improved medical treatment both before, during and after birth. Studies show that there are severe disabilities of 10-40 pst. of the premature survival. The report referred to by the representative Alvheim concerns a review of the vast majority of premature children who survive without serious disability. According to the report mentioned, the development of intelligence and the school performance of the premature children surveyed were satisfactory. But it turns out that the whole 25-30 pst. of the children had behavioural and hyperactivity, AD/HD, which is worrying. There is a lot of evidence that the follow-up of premature children is not satisfactory. Large resources are invested in saving every premature child in the first year after birth, while efforts later are more limited. Both the specialist and community health services are responsible for the medical rehabilitation of children and young people. Habilitation services in the county have a specific responsibility to investigate and organise measures for seriously disabled children, as well as to provide guidance to the personnel in the municipalities. The municipal auxiliaries are responsible for any rehabilitation which does not require specialist competence. In practice, it is the health centre that meets most families with newborn babies. As a result, the staff of the health centre will often take the initiative to initiate the rehabilitation process for premature children and their families. Often, groups of responsibilities are set up to plan and coordinate individual actions from different professional groups and disciplines for each individual child. Premature children are referred to as risk children in the Health Inspectorate’s guide who need special follow-up with regard to medical conditions, psychomotor development, sensory evaluation, language development and parental guidance. In the case of failure of follow-up, it appears that the health centre’s practice does not sufficiently re-introduce knowledge, or, where appropriate, that no refresher training has been established to ensure the competence of health professionals. In order to reduce sensitisation in premature children, I look at this background for the following type of action: strengthen the research and development of health station and school health services in order to ensure a knowledge-based practice strengthen efforts to implement new knowledge in practice, strengthen cooperation between 1st and 2nd line services, and enhance the competence of health professionals to initiate a refresher training programme ensuring that health professionals have adequate competence, inter alia. follow-up of premature children strengthen the habilitation service in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e643	I thank the Council of State for the very positive answer. I don't want to have a personal feeling about where the limit of treatment for premature babies should go. My concern on this issue is what can be done to prevent sensitisation in these children. The sensitivities found in Lindemann's report are hyperactivity and read and write problems, and we're talking about up to hundreds of children here. That report shows that hospitals do not feel responsible for the further follow-up of premature children after hospital discharge. My first follow-up question to the Council of State – which he has partly answered already – is: Is there currently a specially developed follow-up procedure for these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e654	There is a supervisor for habilitation and general follow-up of children after birth, and that's what I'm referring to. It contains a reference to prematurity as a risk child requiring a specific follow-up from it. Routines besides that are probably not established, as I know. I also notice what the representative Alvheim here says about the hospital's responsibility for follow-up after prematurity has left the hospitals. It is my impression that there is a good deal of information about the needs for follow-up, but it is probably right to say that the actual responsibility for it goes from the hospital to the local community health service or specialist health service at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e661	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Children’s medicine/psychiatrician Anne-Marie Hadenius of the Children’s and Youth Psychiatric Department of Oslo reports that it costs about $8 million. 150 000 kroner to save every premature child for the first year of life. After a while, little or nothing is done to prevent latex damage, either in kindergarten or school, says the doctor. However, she refers to the Swedish model of follow-up of premature infants, which is initially such that all premature infants are characterised as a risk group and are followed up from health, school and social services up to the age of six. Will the Minister of Health consider introducing a similar follow-up model of premature infants in Norway, as is currently the case in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e670	I want to answer a little more generally than directly to the question of whether you want to introduce the model you have in Sweden. In Norway, too, the Health Authority advises them as risk children, as I mentioned. It is not the attention or the knowledge that they are the root cause of the problem, but it is the follow-up in practice. The measures I mentioned include both strengthening the routines, strengthening the ability of personnel to carry out such follow-up, training and better cooperation between the 1st and 2nd line services, between the hospital where premature birth is carried out and the follow-up officer after birth. It is quite right that there is a mismatch between resource use in the first year of life and subsequent follow-up. In the work on these measures, we will also look at the Swedish experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e680	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Satisfactory rehabilitation for chroniclers may be difficult to prioritise in a hospital with many emergency tasks. Today's funding system affects this. Will the State Council take the initiative to change Diagnosis-related Groups/Investment-led Financing [[DRG/ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e689	A central issue in the implementation of the ISF was whether this funding mechanism would lead to a change in the priorities between patient groups. However, evaluations carried out by different research environments do not show any significant adverse distortive effects during the first period of the ISF. On the basis of these analyses, there is no reason to claim that hospital chronicles have become worse due to the introduction of the ISF. In principle, a reimbursement scheme based on the DRG will provide better consistency between costs and revenues than other forms of hospital financing, such as: Curfew financing and framework financing. However, DRG-based reimbursement is a short-term premium. Patients with complex and complex disorders often carry long hospital stays. For such patients, other financial instruments, such as: Curfew payment, initially, is preferable. Changes in the ISF for hospital rehabilitation have therefore also been made where the settlement after DRG is partly determined by the patient’s bedtime. The 2000 budget included funds under the ISF Facility, among others. strengthening the financing of specific costly hospital care. These funds are intended as an additional payment at the top of the DRG refund in cases where there is a manifest difference between the DRG refund and the costs of patient treatment. An example of this is the medical treatment ofrevmaticians. The reimbursement of this type of treatment has also been increased for 2001 by providing hospitals with a separate payment to cover drug costs in addition to the DRG reimbursement itself. Now, on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Sintef Unimed has started work on revising the DRG system. This is done in cooperation with about 20 hospitals and is expected to provide a basis for changes with effect from 1 January 2002. Such changes will be due, inter alia, to: new treatment methods and new expensive medicines, and provide a more realistic picture of cost relationships between different patient groups. The need for such side payments, as I mentioned, will therefore also be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e700	I thank you for the answer, which I perceive both as a confirmation that changes are needed here, and also as a confirmation that changes are underway. I mean, there's a basis for asking questions about whether the Chronicle rumsorge is good enough. The Health Minister says it hasn't gotten any worse. My question will then be: does he think that this group today is meeting a good enough offer, or will he look more closely at, for example. the relationship between specialist health services and primary health services by prioritising the ISF scheme for hospital treatment and the relationship between admissions and outpatient treatment, the consequences for chronically ill patients, the calculation of DRG points and complexity?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e707	There were many if not questions, so at least requests on the supplementary question that I'm going to try to take into account later on at least. In general, however, I would like to say that I am very careful to use – not to say that I never use the term ‘good enough’ about health services. I think we should be very careful with that. I think in most areas, we're going to struggle with the fact that we don't have within the resources we have, the ability to satisfy all the needs in such a way that we can say that now it's good enough. Therefore, I would not like to say that it is good enough in terms of treatment and treatment provision for chronic patients, whether or not you can use it as a single patient group. In that case, it is a complex group. What I meant to say is that the ISF system and the DRG system themselves have not made things worse, but there are many other reasons why it is not good enough. And I'm taking along the calls that came, further working on reviewing both the DRG system and making other improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e712	I'll take it a little bit calmer in my next minute. When the ISF was introduced, there was a concern that different patient groups could be at risk of being prioritised depending on whether it is money to spend or money to lose on treatment. My claim is that both ISF and DRG have come to stay, but still have clear weaknesses. When it comes to the revenmatics, it's a big group that's been in the quiet for many years. It is a group that is crucial to receive treatment over time. There is also a group where the professional follow-up shortly after an intervention is crucial to prevent suffering later. I have two examples from my own state. Approved, reputable offerings illustrate today’s weaknesses. [[The President clubs.]] At 100 pst. DRG has a cost coverage of 48 p.m., while the Revmatism Hospital in Haugesund has a coverage of 86 p.m. What I think illustrates is that there is a need for a closer review.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e719	It was not the president's opinion that one should take it calmly that one went far beyond the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e722	To the extent that there has been a concern that the ISF system should lead to a re-prioritisation of patient treatment based on considerations of profitability, it is true that the studies carried out on it do not confirm that this concern has been justified. Something quite different is – and there we are, I think quite agree – that the ISF system, the DRG nomenclature, needs to be continuously revised and improved. It's not good enough in any way, and it's an extensive work, which I described earlier, which you're doing when it comes to going through the DRG weights, among other things. and make improvements there. It is true that chroniclers – and here are the mentioned revenators – come through this system badly. That is why additional appropriations are granted. But I don't have any problems here either admitting that we're not where we should be with the funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e732	I have a question for our Minister of Health: ‘It is intended that the medical bed post, and therefore also the cancer unit, of the Hospital Østfold Sarpsborg, be closed on 15 June. The supervisor at the cancer outpatient clinic fears a lower offer, and that the establishment of a new cancer unit in Fredrikstad, scheduled to be completed on 1 September, seems timeless. An expert group opposed liquidation before an equal offer was established. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to liquidate the cancer unit in Sarpsborg before an equivalent offer is established in Fredrikstad?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e741	I think it is right to base my response largely on information I have received from the Eastfold County Municipality, which is responsible for the decisions taken here by the representative Hedstrøm. I have been confirmed that the medical department at the Hospital Østfold Sarpsborg is closed on 15 June 2001. Today, this department is responsible for outpatient treatment and follow-up, among other things. cancer patients. The time of closure coincides with the transition to summer operations in the Östfold Hospital. In this respect, the closure implies a repetition of an operational change that was carried out in the summer of 2000. The summer operation in 2000 at the Hospital Østfold was a radical change in relation to previous summer holiday settlements. In particular, the Commission noted that the measures in question did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they did not constitute State aid within On the basis of the large change from previous summer operations, the Hospital Østfold asked for an independent assessment and evaluation of the hospital’s operation in the summer of 2000. This work showed – after I have been informed – that there was no lower offer or any delay in treatment for cancer patients in Eastfold with the operational conversion that was selected and carried out in the summer of 2000. A new unit for the treatment of cancer patients has been adopted at the Hospital Østfold. The unit is located in the Hospital Eastfold Fredrikstad. The unit will provide space for a collection of resources for cancer patients in Eastfold, and is among others. caused by the award in 2000 to the Hospital Østfold of a position of excellence for oncology, the first in the county. The position is announced and will be central to the further development of cancer care in the specialist health service in Eastfold. Overall, the unit will enhance both the capacity and competence of cancer treatment in Eastfold by pooling its resources in one location, while maintaining a decentralised outpatient offer. This will have positive quality and operational implications, which will provide patients with a better quality of service than they have today. A report from the Hospital Property Manager, who is responsible for the necessary structural adaptations in the Hospital Østfold Fredrikstad, says that at least today it does not seem to cause problems to have this unit ready until 1 September 2001. As mentioned, I focus on the information provided by the responsible hospital owner in the assessment of the question raised by the representative Hedstrøm. Of course, I have a great deal of understanding that – I had almost said as always – there will be uncertainty and therefore perhaps also concerns about any move of treatment units between hospitals, but I have, so far as possible, concluded that there is no reason to intervene in the county council's plan to take care of the current functions at the Hospital Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e758	I thank the Council of State for the main response. As I understand it, he has his information from the management of Eastfold Central Hospital – so there is no balanced presentation. We have many interest groups, including: those who care for the patients, and also employees, both at Fredrikstad Hospital and at Sarpsborg Hospital, who have a completely different vision, without me going 100 pst. Good for what are the real relationships. From the possible closure of the cancer department in Sarpsborg to a new department at best, it is finished in Fredrikstad on 1 September, there is a gap of two and a half months. Very few believe that it will be possible at this time, because significant restructuring processes will be carried out, and other key players will be hired – in the best of times of vacation. The device for pain relief and the total care unit must also be completed. Does the Minister of Health think that eleven weeks, as a minimum, until reopening in Fredrikstad, is an acceptable summer closure for cancer patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e765	It is true that I essentially base myself on the information on this matter that I have received from the responsible hospital owner. But I have recorded that there are other opinions about this, and it is natural for me in the time that follows, to follow up on this to perhaps get it – as it has been said – more balanced, or at least get better clarity on some of the issues that have been raised, and as I have so seen understanding for all time will be raised in such matters as this. When I mentioned this about summer closure last year, it was just to substantiate that you have experience that it is possible to have a period of time that you are talking about here, without going beyond patient treatment. And then I assume that what I have now informed about, the possibilities of establishing a new cancer unit from 1 September, is realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e772	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I am very pleased that he will follow this up and receive information from others who are also involved in the hospital situation in Eastfold and in the cancer department's further fate. This department was supposed to be ready in Fredrikstad in February of the current year, but there are always delays. We know that the Labour Party and the Advance Party, which constitute a majority of the Norwegian population, are in favour of the state taking over the hospitals from 1 January next year. When we get a state responsibility, I expect that in the case of cancer care too, you will add up to good, qualitative offers, which are as similar as possible across the country. Does the Council of State not think it is unfortunate to make such a significant structural change in the Hospital of Eastfold, when one is now close to a state acquisition of our county hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e779	First of all, I would like to confirm, without saying that the opposite is true here, that in a state ownership, it will be stressed that all changes of this kind are to be made for qualitative and other reasons for patient treatment. When it comes to the question of whether one should have waited with this change, I am probably not of the opinion that the responsible hospital owners must continue to exercise their responsible ownership as if they were to have it forever, even if there is a proposal in the Storting – which I hope, of course, will be adopted – which could mean that they are no longer owners than this year. But you don't know that. I have stressed that the owners continue to be responsible owners without taking it into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e790	I allow myself to ask this question to the Social Minister: ‘The situation of Conrad Svendsen Center on Nordstrand in Oslo is described by the management as dramatic after the payment liability has been transferred from the county municipalities to the municipalities from 1 January 2001. Many municipalities do not accept any responsibility for clients who originally come from the municipality, given that they have not lived there for very many years. Will the Council of State take the initiative to find an immediate solution to an acute problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e799	In St.meld. No 21 for 1998-99, Responsibility and Meistering, the responsibilities of the municipalities for basic care, care and rehabilitation services were underlined and, in general, provision was made for the winding-up of specialist health homes. The Storting joined this, but pointed out that there is still a need for the special language environment at Conrad Svendsen Senter, and underlined the need for clarification regarding the further operation of the Centre. In consultation with Conrad Svendsen Center, most of the operations at the centre were defined as nursing homes and nursing homes from 1 January 2001. The offer was subsequently split into three parts: 1st specialised department2. treatment at level 2 of line3. nursing homes and nursing homes The conversion implies that the bulk of the expenditure to be financed by the government is linked to services for which the municipalities are responsible. The municipalities have thus received a payment responsibility for most of the users at Conrad Svendsen Senter. Most of this responsibility has previously been with the county municipalities. Users at the centre consist mainly of deaf people who also have other disabilities, and this group has a special need for a communication environment of the type at Conrad Svendsen Center, i.e. sign language. Because it is important to maintain such an environment, the 2001 State budget allocated 7.9 million. kr for the operation of the specialised department at Conrad Svendsen Center. The management at the centre was after this of the opinion that they would come to an agreement with the municipalities. As mentioned in St. prp. No 62 for 1999-2000, the municipal economic proposition, a difficult situation has now arisen at the centre as a result of some municipalities refusing to take responsibility for the users. Conrad Svendsen Center made the department aware of this situation in a letter dated 11 March. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has subsequently clarified with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that the municipalities concerned can apply for advances in discretionary subsidies with a view to resolving the financing problem for the current year. The original deadline for applying for this scheme is 1 June, but it has been extended to 1 July for the municipalities concerned. In the case of a longer-term solution, the Ministry will propose for next year to transfer financial compensation directly through the income system to the relevant municipalities that have assumed responsibility for payment from county municipalities. This will be clarified in the 2002 draft budget. In addition, municipalities may also apply for ordinary discretionary grants for resource-intensive users. There has always been a good dialogue between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Conrad Svendsen Centre to find a solution to this situation, and the Centre clearly states that they are satisfied with the solution that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has come up with. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e828	I would like to commend the Council of State for what is practiced by practical, political craftsmanship. When I took up the matter in my own time, it was because in earlier parts of my life I've been missing that kind of -- we'll call it -- possible blackmail between administration levels. Among other things, I have a rather tough experience in connection with old war sailors, where there was a lot of work to bring in the kind of sense that the Social Minister has now described to Conrad Svendsen Senter. And I think everything that's described is done in such a way that I realize that there's now reason to trust that this is handled properly. I'm glad. I thank you for an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e835	Then we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e841	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e844	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Ministry of the Environment has decided, in its complaint concerning Hustadmarmor A/S, that noise emitted by the company’s public road transport operations shall be attributed to the noise produced by the company when the noise requirement of 50 dBA is to be satisfied. The company has to lay down local mass take-offs and 50 jobs to do this. Norwegian industry can be hit hard by this principle of noise determination. Are the industrial policy implications of the Decision sufficiently addressed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e853	The Ministry of the Environment took a decision on the complaint concerning Hustadmarmor A/S on 2 February this year. The decision provided that the properties of three of the closest neighbours were to be redeemed under the pollution law, inter alia. as a result of a lot of noise. It was also decided that the holding should comply with a 24-hour continuous noise limit of 50 dBA from 1 January 2002. The Minister for the Environment is well aware of the situation at Hustadmarmor A/S, and the Government is committed to ensuring a good environment around the company, while maintaining jobs. It follows from a 1993 Supreme Court ruling that the pollution law also applies to the regulation of road traffic noise on the public road to an industrial activity. In view of this, the pollution authorities have often included road traffic noise directly related to the company in their permits. There is therefore nothing new when this is also taken into account in relation to Hustadmarmor A/S. However, in the case of Hustadmarmor A/S this only applies to vehicles located in the area of operation itself and on the route of administration down to the holding. Consequently, vehicle noise from the strata via the national highway is not covered by the emissions permit. The company itself informed the Ministry of the Environment’s decision in advance that they would be able to comply with a noise limit of 50 dBA by the end of the year. By extending and adapting noise abatement measures, the Ministry of the Environment believes that the company will be able to comply with this noise limit, even when traffic noise directly related to the company is included. In order to cope with this, it is assumed that the company will apply planned noise abatement measures, such as: construction of noise throttle. Since precise estimates of the effectiveness of noise abatement measures are difficult to make in advance, it is not possible to say with certainty whether the measures are sufficient until they are actually implemented. Should it prove more difficult at the end of the year than if it were to comply with the requirements of the Ministry, it may be necessary to apply for a review of the question. Of course, it is not the Government's intention that the local mass roofs be laid down in order to comply with the noise requirement. However, in the case of local mines, the company has indicated that an increasing proportion of the raw material in the future will come from remote mines. Transport from these mines will go by sea so that car traffic will be of less and less importance for compliance with the noise requirement. In addition, the redemption of the properties of three of the company's closest neighbours will be relevant for the calculation of the noise. After these are redeemed, there will be a longer distance between the company and its neighbours. The nearest measurement point for the calculation of noise will therefore lie further away from the business, which will cause the noise to become weaker and it will be less problematic to comply with the noise requirement. In the light of the above, I believe that the industrial policy implications of the decision are adequately addressed and emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e870	I thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that it could be a new assessment at the end of the year if this proves difficult to implement. The company has said that in the case of noise from the company, they must do what is required, but it is the new moment, also the noise from road traffic resulting from the company's transport, which makes it difficult. They've said that it makes it impossible, because there's significant noise. The existence of this Supreme Court judgment is not new, but the consequence of it must be new, as the Land Association of the Process Industry – PIL – writes the following in a letter to the Ministry: ‘This will place such a great deal of restrictions on the ability of enterprises to grow and to create value that we believe the matter needs to be seen in an industrial policy context.’ So the PIL believes that this is serious and will have such an impact on so many businesses around the country that they simply ask the Government to carry out a review of the consequences with them. Is the Government willing to take the industry seriously and carry out such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e884	Of course, I will not rule out that the Government is willing to discuss all aspects of its policy with parties who feel affected, so it will certainly be fully possible. At the same time, I want to remind you of the starting point that we have this kind of noise requirement. It is for neighbours of industrial enterprises to have a reasonably good situation, where noise does not become such a major disadvantage that it is simply defined as pollution of the living environment. And then it's not unreasonable that all the noise has to be considered. It will be very difficult to say that so: well, it is clear that there is a lot of noise in the vicinity of your house, but some of it is due to car traffic, and therefore it should not be taken into account. I have to say that having an overall assessment is absolutely crucial for the neighbor, and this is not the intrusive angle to understand as unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e891	I understand those who think it is unreasonable that there are different demands on road traffic noise and on business noise. The rules are such that on one side of the house where there is a road, 72 dBA can be accepted when the noise comes only from the road, and then measured externally. If there is an enterprise on the other side of the house, the noise should be less than 50 dBA. Thus, public responsibility for action against noise and corporate responsibility for action varies, and there are very costly measures in this case. Then it is decided that, in addition to the noise from the company, one should also take into account the traffic noise that someone else has along a road. Does the Council of State consider that such a gross discrimination as regards the types of noise and public liability in relation to the responsibilities of private companies is what we should continue to live with in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e900	What is my starting point for the answer here today is that a decision has been taken towards Hustadmarmor A/S that I find reasonable and logically justified. It has also been stated to the company, and the company has stated possible measures to meet this requirement. It is now recommended that those measures be implemented. The starting point is that there are reasons why it could be successful — both that if the measures are not sufficient in themselves, they should be able to be reassessed, and that the properties of three of the closest neighbours are already determined to be redeemed, so that the measurement points also differ. So at least I believe that in this little debate we can agree on the wish that the sum of this will lead to Hustadmarma moving on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e908	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In a pressurised agricultural period, fur farming can be an important complementary industry for maintaining the use of many uses that would otherwise be the threat of closure. Fur animal husbandry is carried out in relation to the ‘Regulation on the keeping of fur animals’, which has transitional arrangements until 2009. There is now a signal from individual workers’ party representatives that creates a disturbance in industry both in terms of framework conditions and in terms of future operations. Does the Council of State mean that fur nutrition should continue to be an additional industry in agriculture in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e917	A few months ago, I started a work where all animal husbandry in the country will be assessed from an animal welfare point of view. This work also includes fur animals as well as all conditions in which animals are involved, such as: the transport of animals, the slaughter of animals and the holding of pet animals and sports animals. The plan is that the outcome of this work will be presented in a communication to the Grand Duchy during 2002. The Animal Protection Act dates from 1974. It is therefore the first time in nearly 30 years that the animal population in our country is subjected to such an overall review and assessment. A number of questions will therefore be considered. Examples of such questions may be: how animal husbandry has changed people's views on animals and animal husbandry over the last decades, and how this may have changed recent knowledge of the animals' behavioural needs, what kind of criteria should be used when drawing the limit between acceptable and unacceptable animal husbandry from an ethical point of view; Answers to these and many other questions hope I will get out of the ongoing work. The results of this work shall, as mentioned above, be presented to the Storting and will provide the basis for a debate that will draw up the lines for Norwegian livestock farming and other animal husbandry in the next decades. In this debate, ethical and animal welfare views will be balanced against political, economic and housing conditions as well as other factors that will be involved in the future structure of Norwegian livestock farming. Until this work is completed and the debate to which it is invited has been conducted, there is no change in my or the Government's view on the fur industry in our country, as regulated by the Animal Protection Act. It also implies that the framework conditions for the industry remain in place until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e943	The regulation on the keeping of fur animals, which has transitional arrangements until 2009, sets out some new requirements, including: to the size of the cage and the handling of the animal in relation to that which was before. Quite a number of pet owners are now adapting to the new regulation, and it costs both labour and financial investment. It is clear that now, when a message is coming in about a year, the fur breeders are going to invest in order to adapt to a regulation that requires quite a lot of them. Does the Council of State see that there is both frustration and disquiet in the industry when there is a demand for adaptation now and forward, while the industry may be at risk of a whole different demand for a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e950	Yes, I have no problem seeing that this is demanding and challenging, but not just for fur breeders. Everyone who keeps animals in Norway, anyone who transports animals in Norway, everyone who slaughters and kills animals in Norway, is now facing a situation where the legislation, the ethical basis, is under discussion, for both animal husbandry and animal management. But I think it's very clear that there's a debate the Norwegian society, the Norwegian government and the Norwegian big business will nevertheless be willing to take. It is important to review the Animal Protection Act, it is important that we get a new animal protection platform, an animal ethics platform, in Norwegian society. And although it creates challenges and challenging situations for some nutritionists, I'm convinced that the future basis for a good diet based on animals is that we're doing the demanding task.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e958	I agree with the Council of State that it is important to review animal protection laws, and that we get a handling and care of animals that are defenceworthy. At the same time, it creates very great anxiety in the industry when, among other things. in the NRK Dagsnyts reported that at Hordaland Arbeidarparti’s annual meeting in March, it was agreed that the fur industry, as it is today, should be destocked, while the fur industry is subject to the requirements to be adapted to it. When they know that there will be a message that may make even more new demands, it's clear that the industry is troubled, and they're very uncertain about what the Labour Party thinks will be future for this industry. Does the Council of State see the turbulence of the industry, and can the Council of State give a clear signal to the industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e965	As I said in my answer instead, I see the challenge and the demanding in the situation. But at the same time it is impossible for me to give a clear signal – I just have to be honest with that. And when I say we're going to have a full review of all sides of Norwegian animal husbandry, I mean that. Then we have to dry to turn all the stones, and then we have to do it in such a way that we do not conclude in advance and decide to let some remain calm. There is a debate in the Norwegian community about the fur industry. Hordaland Labour Party has a point of view on that, I'm registering it. I believe that if the fur industry does not tolerate that debate, then there is reason to be concerned. I have so much faith in the fur industry that I feel quite sure that they will tolerate this debate that they will be able to stand up for that debate, and only then will we be able to have – if necessary – a long-term and lasting basis for fur farming in Norway. But without the debate, I think we're going to have an eternal battle that the industry is certainly not served.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e978	I would like to ask our honourable Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Kingswinger Circuit Prison was subjected to escape attempts on 12 May 2001, in which three prisoners very brutally assaulted two prison guards before being able to escape. Does the Council of State see that both crew plans and security procedures need to be reviewed and, not least, strengthened to ensure the well-being and well-being of both the staff and the prisoners, so that they are at all times proportionate to the prisoner clientele?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e987	It is tragic when the prison system experiences serious violence, as in Kongswinger. I'm busy figuring out how to avoid multiple such episodes. Both staff and prisoners shall have security in prisons. In accordance with the procedures for dealing with such cases, the Ministry was immediately provided with an interim report by the regional management, which provides an overview of what was actually happening in the prison in Kongswinger. The establishment management and regional management are now continuing to provide more comprehensive descriptions of the course of events. In addition, efforts are being made to analyse the situation and to assess which measures are most relevant in order to avoid similar violence episodes. Of course, the work inspectorate and the agency's own protection service are connected to this work. I have been to Kongsvinger County Prison and met the employees and got insight into their immediate experiences and reflections after the event. As I said at that meeting, of course, it is not an easy solution to the issues of security in prison. We are now awaiting the assessments and recommendations of the region and the Labour Inspectorate. When this material is available, the Ministry will immediately review the assessments and look at what can be done to avoid similar cases in the future. I would like to stress that issues related to prison security include several factors that work together in one whole. This applies both to electronic equipment such as alarms and cameras, to the design of buildings, to the competence of the staff, to the routines and to the working processes of the institutions, to the placement of prisoners in different institutions with different levels of security and control, to the knowledge of the individual prisoner and his crime, to the offer and settlement of the individual prisoner and, last but not least, to the size of the crew. All these elements must be considered after this serious incident. And in the conversation I had with the employees and the management of Kongswinger County Prison, there was no doubt that there was also an understanding among the employees that security in prison is about all the elements I mentioned. It is in the nature of the matter that it is essential to ensure the safety of prisons, but at the same time it is important to bear in mind that, fortunately, everyday life in the prison system is not characterised by serious violence and threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1000	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I registered that the Council of State on 18 May was visiting Kongswinger County Prison. This is positive, but it is a pity that the visit was a result of the brutality that two employees in this prison were exposed to. What I myself am responding to is that the Council of States, even on the basis of what she saw and heard, could give no promises of improvement. Everything was to be analysed and evaluated. This may be good and correct, but I assume that escape attempts and/or violence are not a new phenomenon within the Norwegian prison system, that nothing happened for the first time on 12 May 2001. I record in the answer from the Council of State that she believes that security involves more matters. But the wishes of the prison guards were fairly simple and should be possible to comply. There were first three people on duty Saturdays, second, better information from the police about the prisoners they get in, and third, better alert procedures when something happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1009	It's true that I hadn't been to Kongswinger County Prison before. We have many prisons in this country, and I've been in many of them, but not in it in Kongswinger, so I can't quite take that criticism across me. Fortunately, we don't have a lot of escapes or failures in Norwegian prisons. For Norway, there is nothing to be ashamed of. I maintain what I also said in Kongswinger, that I would find it unprofessional if I came four or five days after such an event came running and said that yes, now we're going to do such and such and such, instead of waiting for an assessment of how this could happen here, what it was like failed here, and what are the right, best and most targeted measures. And for us to do the best, right and most targeted actions, it's a point to think a little bit about and get the assessments from both the Labour Inspectorate, the Protection Service, the prison itself and the region, so that we can put in the right thing, instead of jumping on something in a desire to give a good picture in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1018	I thank you for your answer. There was no criticism that it was the first visit by the Minister of Justice, but that it was a pity that it was the event before the visit that might have caused the visit. This theme is not just an organisational issue. It is also a question of the allocation of money. The work environment of prison officers must be taken seriously. If the staff are in danger because of a lack of security, prisons must simply refuse to accept certain types of prisoners. More and more of the prisoners in Kongswinger County Prison are of the heavier kind as zones for very serious conditions, for which other prisons are organized. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this, so that prisoners are in the prison where conditions have been set up for them, and this within a very short time? Otherwise, I refer to the programme ‘Holmgang’ yesterday, 22 May, which pointed to the unfortunately major problem Norway has in solving the problems within this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1027	I perceived the question as whether I was concerned that the prisoners should be in the right prison, and the answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1035	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Empty fastening Act has still not entered into force. This is perceived as a training of the law. When will the Council of State ensure that the law enters into force?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1044	The new regulation for the Law on Landfill and the date of entry into force will be set at kgl. Resolution. Work on this is still not fully completed. However, efforts are still being made to implement the law as of 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1049	This was a short and very satisfying answer. I assume that it is not just working on it, but that the law will really come into force, and then I get to define ‘tremation of the law’ as something that belongs to the past. I am, as I said, very pleased with what the Council of State expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1058	I'm stuck with what I said. In what I said, there is no guarantee, but that is what I said: We are still working to implement the law from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1063	Then I get to replicate: there is a guarantee from my side that the matter will be brought up again if, against all presumption, it does not come into effect from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1068	I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1073	The president records that there's a lot of nakedness in the hall, and it might be good to bring it with him when we go into throne times towards summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1079	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘What is the reason why the Ministry of Children and Family has rejected the Søndre Nordstrand urban application for support for a free core offer for 5-year-olds taking into account the integration problems of the district?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1086	In the autumn of 1998, the trial started with the free short-term offer for all 5-year-olds in Old Oslo. The experiment was scheduled to end in July 2001. However, the size decided to extend the project to four-year-olds from the autumn of 2000. The aim of the experiment is to facilitate better integration and language training and to increase the participation of multilingual children in kindergartens. It is also desirable that the project be seen in the context of Norwegian training for mothers with a migrant background. In parallel with the provision of funds for the experiment in the Old Oslo Ministry of Children and Family, the Oslo Action Programme provides support for similar actions in the Sagene-Torshov and Grünerløkka-Sofienberg districts. Thus, the State contributes significantly to the important work on the integration and language training of multilingual children in the inner parts of Oslo. There are several municipalities that can rightly claim that they are in the same situation as Oslo in terms of the proportion of multilingual children, although of course we know that Oslo's problems are special. In addition, the government has announced that different models are being discussed in order to improve childcare facilities. One of the models discussed is a free short-term offer. It would therefore not be right to give more to Oslo at this stage of the process. I have to say that I fully understand that the town of Søndre Nordstrand may need funds for measures such as free short-term services in its kindergartens, but we do not have room for this in the ministry's budget this year. In the State budget, only funds have been allocated for the project in Old Oslo City until the summer of 2001. Preliminary experience is very positive. In the revised national budget for the current year, the government has also made proposals to extend the Old Oslo experiment for both 4- and 5-year-olds out in 2001. The experiment will be evaluated by NOVA and the Hedmark College. The Ministry of Children and Family also received applications from several other municipalities to participate in similar trials. It has not yet been possible to extend this pilot scheme to several urban/municipalities until the evaluation has been completed. Both the State and the municipality have to deal with the adopted budget. I know that the representative Kristin Krohn Devold also knows and certainly understands. If the Municipality of Oslo now wants to provide a free short-term offer in several parts of the city, I see this as very positive. If the municipality also contributes financially to this sector, I am absolutely sure that both the Government and the Municipality of Oslo can achieve a good and constructive cooperation on the nursery sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1101	I am pleased that the project in Old Oslo is receiving clear support from the Council of State, and that the offer of free kindergartens is being extended. However, in the measures investigated in the Ministry to improve childcare facilities, there is of course a difference between providing direct support in the form of free childcare facilities where there is a large immigrant population who would otherwise not have come to the kindergarten and lowering the prices for general kindergartens. My question is: Since the Council of State used the word ‘preliminary’, that it was not yet relevant to support more towns because Oslo has such special integration problems, could it be appropriate later to address the question from Søndre Nordstrand? The problems there are very similar to those in the inner east of Oslo, since the immigrant population is so big in this part of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1110	I very much appreciate the representative's commitment and have a great understanding of the situation in which the Municipality of Oslo is. But it is that the Storting actually asked for an evaluation of this pilot project, and then I think it is right that we get it first. But that does not mean that we will exclude a further commitment to such measures. But I think it's right for Stortinget that we do that evaluation, and then we get back to it. So there is no political reason for the rejection that the Municipality of Oslo has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1115	Then I still use the opportunity to try to drag this matter a little bit further. I accept that the revised national budget has only been able to undertake to extend the scheme for the Middle East of Oslo. But I will make a very strong call in relation to the state budget that comes to the harvest. I'm sure we have the same commitment with regard to immigrant children, and will ask the Council of State to consider Søndre Nordstrand in particular to see if these free childcare facilities can be extended there too without subsidising other municipalities. The project is clearly located in Søndre Nordstrand, so there is the possibility of a pilot project. I hope for a positive assessment in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1124	I cannot give an answer that the representative will be satisfied with on that point. But I would like to say that we will evaluate it, without saying what the conclusion is at the budgetary procedure. But as I said, we're taking with us the signals we've received from the representative Krohn Devold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1134	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘There must be strict criteria to be approved in order to adopt children in order to ensure, as far as possible, that the children will benefit the adoption parents. In recent years, there has been a trend in what you consider to be a good framework for a safe and healthy growth. At the same time, detailed rules may open up square interpretations during the handling of individual cases. Do the Councils see the need to go through the rules on the recognition of adoptive parents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1143	It is a fundamental principle in the adoption law and in the international conventions to which Norway has acceded that adoption should be in the best interests of the child. This means that the child has the right to grow up in a home that benefits it. At the same time, it is important to stress that no one has the right to adopt children. The guidelines for the examination of applications for adoption are designed on this basis and are precisely aimed at the best interests of the child. Among other things, this includes: applicants must have the prerequisites and opportunities to provide a safe and harmonious upbringing for the child. The adoption of Norwegian children is known as the child to be placed, so that it is easier to find parents who will be the best of this child. The adoption of foreign children usually does not know the child in advance. Thus, the guidelines for foreign adoption must not only reflect what can be good for one child, but what is good for children in general. Furthermore, there is no need to conceal that, as a result of experience prior to adoption, the child may face challenges that are different and far more demanding than those of a child born to him or her. I would like to make it clear that it is no easier to obtain approval for the adoption of foreign children than by Norwegians. It is primarily personal fitness that determines whether adoptive parents become good parents. Personal suitability is not a unique concept, and judgement in such an assessment will always have to be exercised. It is difficult, not to say impossible, to have guidelines that exactly indicate what adoption applicants must have, for example. of profits, values and human vision in order to be recognised. It is therefore underlined in the adoption guidelines that these are indicative only and that the authority to approve adoptive parents must make an overall assessment of the overall life situation of the applicants and what benefits the child. How both mother and father are able to provide care overall will be crucial. The guidelines for the authorisation of adoptive parents were reviewed in September 1998. In the preparation of the guidelines, the Ministry paid particular attention, not least, to developments in society and what it considers to be good growth conditions for a child. For example, adoption applicants were often rejected in the past because one of the applicants did not meet the requirement for good physical and mental health. Today’s guidelines explicitly state that, after a concrete assessment, attention should be paid to the need for parents to be a caretaker. The decision on authorisation will be the profit of the applicants and the certainty that they can take care of a child for a long time in the future. Another example of social development being reflected in the adoption guidelines is that they are now much more open to adoption to unanimity than in the past. Today, therefore, lone applicants are assessed on the basis of their resources and care capacity, not primarily on the basis of their civil status. The Ministry is today's appeal body. It is therefore not surprising that a few decisions taken by SUAK are modified by the Ministry. In appeals, however, professional assessments are also emphasised by both SUAK and the municipality of residence of the adoption applicant. It is in particular where the professional assessments crack, the department will be able to take a different decision from SUAK. I'm glad that research shows that most adoption conditions are developing in a good way, although we also have to take inwards that some families are struggling. I am aware that it may be right to look at the approval system for adoption of which the guidelines are part. This may include, inter alia: assess whether the Ministry remains a Board of Appeal or whether the decision in these cases should be added to an independent body, as has been done, for example. with child protection and foreign affairs. In any case, the objective must be that all those involved can be as guaranteed as far as possible that the decision on who should be adopted is based on the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1161	I think it is very good that the Council of State determines what is essential when we talk about adoption criteria, which is what is best for the child. I am pleased with the changes that were made in the autumn of 1998, and I think they are absolutely going in the right direction. I am also pleased that the Council of State now states that the discretion of individual cases is necessary and that the criteria set out in the guidelines must be indicative, that there should be no absolute criteria. But then I would like to ask: does the Council of State feel confident that this will be followed up in practice — both the changes made in the autumn of 1998 and that there will be a good idea here? As an example, I can refer to a married couple in Eastfold, where the man has been seriously ill. He has been healthy for five years now, but they still get a refusal with reference to his illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1168	I would say that we trust the assessment made in SUAK – we do. We are totally dependent on the fact that the guidelines on which the Stortinget has clearly given the directive are being complied with by our external agencies. But there is no doubt that we get some appeals to the ministry, and that there will be different types of assessment in the individual cases. I think it is very difficult to have a fascist response to many adoption issues, but there is no doubt that Norwegian legislation in this area is very restrictive. Therefore, I also find it completely unheard of to make claims that this government does not take on the best interests of the children. Based on the experience I have gained this year as a State Council, I believe it is right that we look at the procedures for dealing with appeals, but of course we also have the opportunity to look at the criteria for the award of adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1175	I am pleased that the Council of State now says that she – as she also said in the oral question procedure today – should go in and look at the procedure, but also at the content. I think that there might be reason to question whether to go further on the track that was set up in 1998: to put even greater emphasis on the whole of what adoption applicants can do, to see what is good care and what are qualified parents. I can't in any way see that having been through a serious illness, having the migraines or a minor disability will make a unfit parent. On the contrary, it may well be that it has been sick yourself, has had something difficult to carry, or today carries on something that may be difficult, can actually make a better person able to care for a child who may also have special needs. I would also point out that it reminds me of a sorting society if you're going to be sold out on that basis. In other contexts, we're just taking a distance from a sort society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1184	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot say anything more about the specific matter. I understand very well that it responds to the fact that a family does not have the opportunity to receive adoption if one member of the family has been ill, when the overall care of the family may be considered very good – this also being seen in the light of a practice that we have now opened up for lonely people to have the opportunity to adopt. What needs to be taken into account is the overall care of mother and father, and that one also carefully assesses the disease and the importance it has for the effort that parent killer can make for the child. We're going to go through this, and then we're going to get back to the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1196	This question, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1199	I would like to ask the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘In response from the Minister for Oil and Energy on 14 May 2001 to questions relating to written answers to the question of taking greater account of fisheries in future concessions, the Council of State responds that it will ensure that this consideration ‘takes a central place in the assessments’. The impact of seismic activity on sandeel fisheries has been re-examined. The lack of scientific studies leads to a lack of certainty in the decision-making process. Will the Council of State take the initiative to launch a relevant scientific study?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1208	The potential effects of petroleum activities on the environment and fisheries are assessed in the context of concession awards. There are conditions under which rightholders undertake to conduct different investigations in some areas where necessary. Some areas are not made available for petroleum activities; others are subject to strict operational requirements. Careful impact studies are also carried out in connection with the development of new petroleum fields. I would like to stress that major scientific studies have been carried out and major research programmes have been carried out on fish, the environment and petroleum activities. In the context of the 2000 North Sea Award call, a working group was set up with representatives of the industry/business concerned, from the research environment and management. The objective was to identify knowledge needs and thus clarify research needs. On this basis, the Government will carry out an overall review of this work and the investigations available on the environmental and fisheries consequences of the North Sea petroleum activities. The objective is to identify the basis for new investigations into the overall impact of existing and future North Sea petroleum activities. This work is well under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1215	I am aware of the studies and discussions that are taking place between the fishing industry and the oil and energy industry in relation to new concession awards. The problem here is that there is little happening and that the surveys that the fishing industry is asking for, among other things. South Norway's jet layer, unfortunately, has not been executed. As a result, uncertainty arises about the effect of seismic action on the fields. What is missing is a concrete promise to follow this up in a separate scientific study. I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice, despite the fact that she is not a professional minister, whether there is any commitment to following this up in a concrete scientific study.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1222	I believe that this working group, which is just composed of representatives from both fisheries, petroleum activities, research environments and management, has been set up to identify where we believe that we lack knowledge and therefore research. It is on the basis of the review we then decide where there is reason to carry out completely specific scientific studies. The answer is no — so far — but it is because we want to have the technical basis for where it is most important to carry out new scientific studies before deciding to start it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1229	As the Council of State is sure to understand, the results and conclusions of this working group are requested here. One believes that the working group has now had sufficient time to assess the different needs. I would like to ask the Council of State to pass on a strong wish that the working group deliver a result, and hope that there will be a scientific study that addresses the impact of seismicism on sandeel fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1234	I feel sure that the real oil and energy minister also shares the wish that they be completed as soon as possible. I will at least take this wish with me from the representative Steensnæs to the State Council Akssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1242	This question, from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1245	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «Stavanger Kristine Friskole received approval in October 1997 for 1–4. class steps, with a student number of 259 which was taken into account in the school’s application for a full 1 to 10 school in 2004. The school applied for approval of the intermediate stage in March last year, but has not yet received an answer. The conditions under which the restriction to 1. to 4. class steps are now gone. What is the reason why the Ministry of Church, Education and Research sees this as a new application, and when can the school expect answers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1254	As the representative for Wage points out, the school only received approval under the private school law for 1 to 4. class steps in October 1997. This also means that the school only approved curricula for these four class steps, cf. Section 4 of the Private School Act. Stavanger Kristine Friskole applied on 23 March 2000 and 18 May 2000 for the admission of two students in the fifth grade of the school year 2000–2001. The Ministry rejected this application on 19 July 2000 because the school has not approved curricula for this class. The rejection was in accordance with the recommendations of the State Education Office in Rogaland, and it is not charged by the school. On 23 June 2000, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research received two applications from Stavanger Kristine Friskole dated 18 May 2000 and 7 June 2000 respectively. In these applications, the school is asked to approve 5th and 6th class steps from the 2001–2002 school year and 7th class steps from the 2002–2003 school year. The reason why the department considers this to be a new application under the private school law is that the private school law § 4, which I mentioned earlier, requires the department to approve the curricula used by the schools. I can otherwise confirm that the department has now met the application from Stavanger Kristine Friskole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1265	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Is the latest information in the Council of State response so as to understand that there has been an official response to the school in the form of letters, and is this answer appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1272	The answer is yes to both, as far as I know. I have a copy of the letter that went to school, and the representative can certainly get a copy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1279	Yes, I thank you once again. It's a worthy ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1287	This question will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1290	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘There is a major shortage of pharmacists. With the introduction of the new Pharmacy Act on 1 March 2001, there were more than 100 job vacancies. This particularly affects the districts. In a comment in the Budget indent. S. No 12 for 2000–2001 we were concerned that this situation could arise. The University of Tromsø can expand the recording capacity from 27 to 35. The availability of available capacity is poor use of resources. Will the Council of State facilitate the University of Tromsø to increase its intake already until the autumn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1299	Today, 90 students are admitted annually to the pharmacy study, 63 in Oslo and 27 in Tromsø. The education in Tromsø was established in 1994, with an admission of 20. In August 1998, the University of Pharmacy was completed and put into service. At the same time, the recording increased to 27. Because pharmacovigilance is five years old, this means that until now we have little seen the effect of setting up this study in Tromsø. The introduction of new pharmacies laws will, according to the opinion, mean an increased need for staff related to the operation, operation and management of pharmacies. The uptake capacity of prescription training has tripled since 1998, including the increase of 30 in the autumn in setting up of prescription training also at the College of Nord-Trøndelag. Study sites in pharmacy are relatively expensive. When overall resources for higher education in recent years have been reduced as a result of a certain applicant failure, it has been particularly difficult to re-disposal to particularly cost-intensive education. I would also like to point out that there have been problems in providing sufficient competent teaching staff. The revised national budget has now been submitted. There are no funds in this area for increased absorption. The allocation of funds to increase the absorption of this study is, as is well known, a budgetary issue that needs to be assessed in relation to the 2002 State budget. The increase in the admission to pharmaceutical training in Tromsø will be carefully assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1315	I thank you for the answer, but it was not very uplifting in relation to the problem that I raised. I assume that the Council of State agrees that we have and will have a shortage of pharmacists in the future. As we have capacity available, it is possible to increase educational capacity by recording eight more students per year. years, which means that we can record approx. 40 more students during the training period – it is a little strange that the Council of State is not more concerned with increasing educational capacity, using the available capacity to avoid the crisis that is clearly coming and that we already see trends. Although these are expensive study places, and although this will cost a lot – if we increase the recording from August, it might cost 400,000 kroner – I would have hoped that the department would already give a clear signal to the University of Tromsø that one would increase the capacity and that money would be put at the disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1324	I can't do so much more than repeat the answer. I understand that the representative Rikvam would like the answer to be different, but I cannot give that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1329	I understand that she cannot give another answer. But I wish she would reflect a little on this. It would be possible for the Council of State to reflect on the need for this training, since the Council of State is also aware of the problem. In her answer, she says that there is likely to be a shortage of pharmacists in the future, even though we have increased educational capacity in recent years. So I had most hoped that the Council of State would reflect on whether this is a need that she sees coming, whether there is a need to do something about it, and whether we can cover this in other ways, for example, by importing pre-trained pharmaceuticals. I had, as I said, hoped for some reflections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1334	I don't think there's any doubt that the Minister of Church, Education and Research sees the need to increase the admission to the training in pharmacy in Tromsø, so this is a response to the dilemma of both this big business and the government has in balance between what you see is the desire and need, and the framework you have at your disposal. However, I emphasise that the question of increasing the level of government budget uptake for 2002 has not yet been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1339	Case No. 1 on the current map has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1353	Kristiansand Airport at Kjevik was opened in 1939, the same year as Fornebu and two years after the opening of the Sola. So it was one of the first three airports in Norway, so the county was early on building a modern and forward-looking infrastructure. The State took over Kjevik free of charge in 1946 in return for the following commitments: ‘Maintaining and operating the airport as one of the country’s central civil services for domestic and foreign traffic and providing it with the equipment required by this traffic’.» At that time, the municipality specified three points: Plans and stages of development must be carried out in accordance with the clause mentioned below. The state is not free in the assessment of how the airport should be expanded. Minimum standards do not meet the clause mentioned below. There can hardly be any doubt that Kjevik's extension always has a doctor after these arrangements. This will be further exacerbated after the last release of the extension, which is now announced to come after 2007. The situation in Kjevik can be illustrated by some examples: Kjevik had about 2000. 880000 passengers, Tromsø had approx. 950,000 and Bodø approx. 850000 passengers. Kristiansand has 4400 m2, while Tromsø and Bodø, with a little less and a little more traffic, have 7,900 m2 – almost twice the area available. What makes the area issues more relevant is the international side. It's also the way Kristiansand gets out worse. The problem is that one here has not got a modern airport, and it prevents further international development. The passenger number of the international traffic at Kjevik is approx. 212,000, Bodø and Tromsø to which I have previously referred have 13 000 and 15 000 passengers respectively. In the context of international traffic, other airports with very large international traffic have organised their own customs office. This is also missing in Kjevik. The consequence of this is that there is aggravation of competition for the industry in the South. In relation to an aerodrome it is natural and common with other services, such as: the provision of hotels. A private contractor was ready to build such facilities in Kjevik as late as last year, but had to put the plans on ice because of the lack of progress in the development that the Swedish Aviation Agency has announced at Kjevik. When I have mentioned these examples and the comparisons with Bodø and Tromsø, it is not envy at all. It's not because they shouldn't have had these extensions either. Both Tromsø and Bodø have received tidy and good airports. What goes wrong is that an airport of the same size with larger international traffic has not got the same possibilities as these airports. Why is the situation at Kjevik like this? Is that the operating result – is it that one has had large deficits that have made it difficult isolated to construct exactly this Airport? No, most years Kjevik Airport has made a profit in its accounting. They've made a constant contribution to the Aviation Agency's total accounting, and so it can't be the financial side of the operation that's caused by the lack of development rate here. The coordinator of Kristiansand has challenged the ministry and asked to transfer the plant back to Kristiansand if one does not intend to follow up the statements that one had at the time a transfer to the state. I don't want to claim that there is a desired solution. I think it's good that we have a network that the Swedish Aviation Agency operates, but at the same time, the county can't see that a little bit behind. So if it's not possible to fill in this expansion, I'll still challenge the Council of State and say, would a free return be an alternative? To sum up, I have the following three questions in relation to the interpellation: Will the Council of State take an initiative to support development plans? Will the Council of State consider any transfer back to the municipality of Kristiansand free of charge? And like the last one, which it should be nice to follow up: will the Council of State as soon as the advice is given to facilitate the establishment of a customs city at Kristiansand Airport, so that it competes on the same lines as the other International Traffic Airports?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1392	The action programme of the Swedish Aviation Agency, which follows the National Transport Plan 2002-2011, did not identify any scope for the extension of the expedition building at Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik, in the first planning period 2002-2005. The same applies to all other planned expansion projects relating to despatch buildings, with the exception of Stavanger airport, Sola. In the view of the Aviation Agency, some of the other main routes have a lower spatial and building technical standard than at Kjevik. Of the total investment framework of the Aviation Agency, priority is given to about 70 pst. for aviation safety and aviation operations. A very strict priority is required for the remaining funds. In this context, the Swedish Aviation Administration believes that the dispatch building on Kjevik today has a satisfactory standard. Furthermore, the airlines have not objected to the priorities of the investment framework. Against this background, I see no need to intervene in the priorities of the Aviation Agency. As regards the issue of transfer of the airport to the municipality of Kristiansand, there would be a rather fundamental breach of current policies in this area. There would have to be a wider discussion of both the airport structure and the responsibility for the airports in Norway, and I cannot see that the current case in Kristiansand, Kjevik, makes this a current issue. With regard to the establishment of a customs office, the representative Lilletun is well aware that customs matters fall within the responsibility of another department. I can therefore do nothing but bring this request back with me to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1403	Thus, according to the Aviation Agency’s assessment, the situation at Kjevik is satisfactory. I believe the Aviation Agency is very much across what is the general opinion in the country. And if one compares, as I've tried, without disqualifying or criticizing that someone has got proper Airports, it's quite clear that Kjevik has come very badly out of this. Then one can quite certainly say that there are also other airports in the same situation, with poor facilities. But I doubt that there are other airports with as much international traffic as Kjevik has. I like Stavanger Airport the extension that comes there, but they already have a pretty, beautiful and modern facility, which probably needs extension, but which is still a modern facility in relation to it – in one way or another – the warehouse that serves as a departure hall in Kjevik. I note that the Minister of Transport has not been willing to examine the local views on this matter, only refers to the assessments of the Aviation Agency. It can then be referred to as both the county councils, East-Agder and West-Agder, are very busy with it, the district council is very busy with it, the NHO in Agder is very busy with it, and the LO in Agder is very busy with it, so it's not so that there's not a monthly oppression here to be able to move on in a renewal of Kjevik. So to the question of a takeover. I agree with the council that there would be an unusual solution. But if it is that one should wait until after 2007 to move forward, actually resorting to unusual solutions could be necessary. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if he's open to an assessment of that relationship. And finally, will the Council of State from its point of view facilitate the practical establishment of a customs office in Kjevik in the run-up to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1416	Through inspections and visits to the Agder counties, I am well aware that there are wishes, clear wishes, about improvements to Kjevik Airport. I did not express the satisfaction of the situation at Kjevik Airport. On the other hand, I said that in relation to the priorities that need to be made within the investment framework, it is perceived that Kjevik Airport has a standard that you can live with. With regard to the references to Bodø and Tromsø, I am very pleased that we have been given forward-looking, good facilities, which are good for air passengers, and which can also work to support air traffic. It would be a disaster if these airports had been built without being so far ahead. And you'll probably have to live with the fact that newly built airports have a higher standard than those that have existed for a while. With regard to the priority that the Swedish Aviation Agency attaches to bet on the Sun, I give it my full support. I have not said that there is no need for Kjevik, but I am convinced, for my part, that prioritizing the Sun in today's situation is correct. As regards the question of a municipal acquisition of Kjevik, I am of the opinion that there is a question that needs to be assessed on a principle basis and not in relation to a priority of development. I therefore do not intend to take any special initiatives to assess this in more detail. On the issue of the establishment of a customs office, I repeat that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. But it is, of course, that when the customs services are to establish themselves, one must necessarily cooperate with the authorities that are on the ground. I assume and, if necessary, will also ensure that such cooperation can be achieved if the Ministry of Finance assigns a customs office to Kjevik Airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1429	This interpellation could perhaps be better suited as a question in the questionnaire than as an interpellation. Because I really think of this case as an attempt by the representative Lilletun to identify himself in a local case. And it's actually that you can ask yourself about the memory in election years because some people are alarmingly bad. It has been less than three months since this big business has been treated Innst. S. No 119 on the National Transport Plan, where we dealt with the investment programme for all transport sectors for the next ten years. As the Minister for Transport explained in his reply, this plan of action by the Swedish Aviation Agency, based on the treatment of the Storting, did not provide room for an extension of Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik, in the first part of the planning period. However, the project is referred to in the transport plan as being relevant throughout the ten-year period. And in the 237-page thick setting we do not find a single sentence – not a word – that the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Government in this, or that Kjevik should be prioritised early. So, truth be told, I find it a little surprising that the representative Lilletun is trying to get the government to solve what he obviously hasn't gotten through in his own party. In fact, in the planning framework of the transport plan, only the Workers' Party and SV went in to increase the funding on the aviation side by 50 million. kr more this year at regional airports. I think it's a pity that the Christian People's Party wouldn't be with us and form a majority in the Storting for such a framework increase. It might have made the representative Lilletun's case a little easier today. I have no problem agreeing that the necessary investments must be made at Kjevik. So we're going to do that. But it's going to be inexorable to jump over the priorities and the order that the Aviation Agency has set up. I would like to ask Mr Lilletun, through the President, whether he does not see that this must be the consequence if the Council of State would now take his request? And if the planning frameworks of the Christian People's Party in the transport planning process are to be based, what investment in the Aviation Agency's action plan does the representative Lilletun think we should deprioritise in favour of such a redundancy of Kjevik? I guess it's known to most people in this room that the Aviation Agency is struggling with a strenuous economy. [[The President clubs.]] Not least, this is due to a high demand for income for the establishment, which not least the Christian People's Party has been with and adopted both inside and outside the government offices. However, in the revised national budget, the Government proposes to ease this by reducing the return requirement by 21 million. kr, but the economy is still cool. [[The President clubs again.]] For the Workers' Party, it is important that it is not only at the large and profitable airports that it is to be invested, even if we have to put in place the necessary measures there as well. We need to make investments at regional airports in the districts, where the alternatives to air transport are few.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1446	The President will ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1449	I am also somewhat surprised that this interpellation is now being addressed, so soon after the Storting has dealt with the National Transport Plan, where the priorities have also been set in the aviation sector. It must be a prerequisite for action at Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik, to take place within the framework and priorities laid down in the national transport plan and beyond within the framework laid down in the annual budgetary procedures. The financial framework conditions under which the Swedish Aviation Agency works are very tight. This has a majority in the Stortinget consisting of, among other things, the own batch of the inter-pellant provided. They are so tight that the Swedish Aviation Agency does not see itself able to carry out all the necessary projects on the Sola, where a 50 million reduction is now proposed. kr. This is the situation of the Aviation Agency, in which the Christian People's Party has helped bring the Aviation Agency into. The Christian People's Party has also caused a reduction in the number of air passengers, which is the very basis for the revenue and ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to make money in order to carry out the necessary investments and maintenance, through the record-breaking charges imposed on aviation. I see the interpellation as a pure election struggle, where the Christian People's Party's own policy seriously impedes the aviation industry in its efforts to improve conditions at Norwegian airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1462	I am amazed that the Christian People's Party is now suddenly concerned about Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik. Grants to regional airports decreased by 14.4 million. for 2001 in relation to the budget for 2000. This was done in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. The Progress Party is aware that the reduction in appropriations from 2000 to 2001 is due to the balancing of the State acquisition in 1999 and 2000, but we assumed that the reduction in appropriations in 2001 would not have an impact on the regularity and safety of regional airports. The Progress Party also included an increase of 10 million in its 2001 budget proposal. kr on cap. 1311, Grants to regional airports, without the Christian People's Party supporting this. For the aerodromes, which are initially to be self-financing, the Christian People's Party is also involved in maintaining the surplus requirement, which in turn provides a lower rate of expansion of aerodromes and more expensive journeys. The Progress Party believes that the high level of charges on domestic routes can lead to the closure of routes, which in turn leads to a lower revenue for the Aviation Agency. This means higher fares for travellers and reduced competition in aviation in the domestic market, as well as a higher charge for the remaining air traffic. The Progress Party has also registered the opinions of representatives of the Aviation Agency that the financial framework conditions for the Aviation Administration and Aerodromes are not satisfactory. This leads to reduced possibilities for necessary extensions and upgrades. It is worrying about the importance of airports for business and housing around the country. We are concerned about the high level of charges in aviation and the impact this has on competition in the market. The events of the last days with SAS’s purchase of Braathens confirm this. The party of progress indicates that it is either the travellers themselves who pay, or it is the business of the regions in question who have to pay a larger part of the bill for the tax increases. In our view, this is a very unfortunate consequence, and therefore I find it strange that the representative Jon Lilletun wants a faster expansion of Kjevik without it appearing in the budget of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1475	I understand that the representative Lilletun is in trouble at Kjevik. When I travel around the world and look at the standard at airports, I often think that the Norwegian standard is really sky high. It might actually be much higher than necessary at many of the airports. The representative Lilletun mentioned Bodø and Tromsø as examples, and then the council said that it was “future” construction. I am of those who use Bodø very often, and I have often thought that here you have at least built for a very large capacity. I'm not sure that kind of investment is right. I have not yet experienced that it is full there, sail if there should be a critical situation. But it's now built, it's not to be demolished. Based on the economy of the Aviation Agency, continuing to build great, large terminals with tubes will be a completely wrong investment. One of the public themes is: does the Swedish Aviation Agency have the economy to hold the regional grid, at the short-haul airports, or is it at risk of being shut down? In Honningsvåg, we have an airport on a dispensation, where we might have to build a new one to have an airport there. It's of the critical things in Norwegian aviation, and not if you can go dry in tubes out to the plane. But if it was a place to have tubes, it had to be in Honningsvåg when it's winter storm. But I don't think that's going to happen. I would like to say the following: Not only does the representative Lilletun block – it is reassuring that the Council of State does not take that invitation and say yes, we are now building – but I think that the Swedish Aviation Agency, the Department and the bulk of the population are making a mistake in using large investment funds for conversion, 550 million. kr on Sola, a good many hundred million kronor on Flesland, Værnes, which is newly built, etc. I don't think that's the right priorities at a time when part of the airport network is actually fighting to survive, and where investment is needed that has to do with regularity and security. Regularity and safety are much more important than whether it may be a bit tight at certain times of the day or that, in a critical situation, it may start to be filled. We must be able to live with that. The main investments in aviation shall be to maintain the network we have, which is so important for business and housing, and to invest in regularity and security. So the conveniences have to come in the second row. If there's enough check-in counters, if there's a little queue, if there's a tube to go to the planes, then there's got to be another line, after what's important -- the critical things. And there my criticism goes not only to the representative Lilletun, who has now sent a little greeting home, but also to the majority in the Grand Duchy who have in a way accepted a priority that lies in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1486	Of the posts that have been, I have a lot of understanding for the representative Inge Myrvoll. It was based on a holistic policy and a line that I understand, but that still doesn't address the whole issue. What is the reality of Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik? For the first time, it has always contributed to the community, but has always been allocated worse when it comes to expansion options than most airports you can compare with. Secondly, it is not that, in my interpellation, I have just tried to force the expansion phase within the Aviation Agency. It is quite right that they have thrones of budgetary priorities, but there may still be reason to look at a holistic priority, and it must be fully permissible to work for, within the framework that I acknowledge that our party has been involved in, that one can move money. It must be completely possible to record in an interpellation. So I'm a little bit surprised that representatives of the Right Party or the Advance Party have not taken up the glove that one here can actually find another solution to develop an airport that would not, in that case, burden government budgets. If that would be the solution, I don't say, but Kristiansand's spokesmen – by the way from the Right – have taken that initiative. I thought it was a wise recording, considering that one looks like one is in a difficult situation. I might have believed that the Right Party and the Advance Party seemed interesting, but I'm noticing that they're just busy with the formal. Then to the representative Eirin Fallet. I record that she thinks I should have asked a question rather than having an interview. That's what I'm talking about. But I actually thought it was interesting to have a somewhat more complementary dialogue with a government council in one case. I also think it's interesting to get to the right which second party I think. In that case, I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that no one else was willing to deal with the matter of alternative ways to do it, but I take note of it. So I'm happy for a little thing, and that's that I have a hope that we, in cooperation with etc. the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Finance will at least have to settle an injustice, namely that one can also get a customs office in Kjevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1505	Some comments on what emerged in the debate: In the case of Stavanger Airport, Sola, there has been a review of the plans that have led to the fact that it is not relevant to start the actual construction work this year. Therefore, the proposal for an investment budget for the Sun is reduced in 2001, but it remains a priority project. With regard to the overall economy of the Aviation Agency, there is reason to follow closely, and there is reason to consider how we are going to deal with this in the future, given that it is extremely tight. But there must be no doubt that priority No. 1 are security issues, priority No. 2 is operational conditions. We must continue to provide a well-developed regional network, but we must also ensure that the Aviation Agency can remain a self-financing activity. Thus, we are also dependent on well-functioning dispatch buildings at the major airports. But it's in this picture that we need to find a necessary balance in the priority that I'm now expressing. When it comes to making airports municipal, I think first of all I would like to point out that it has not been assessed in relation to the national transport plan, either in the preliminary work or during the work of the Government. Nor can I remember that it was at all during the treatment of Storting. It would also be pretty drastic to make the profitable airports municipal. Then we would do something structurally across current policies. I am also fully convinced that aviation is becoming increasingly demanding in the future, both operationally and safetyly. I am therefore convinced that we must have a network of airports in Norway, and I am convinced that they must be under one coordinating hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1516	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1521	Before we go to case no. 3 on the map of the day, the President will propose the election of presidents of Parliament’s meetings on Monday-Thursday next week, and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1526	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-23.ana.ud1746e1533	Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as chairmen. Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg are unanimously elected.
