ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e42	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the individual posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e53	Statoil and the other rightholders have for a long time assessed the extraction of gas reserves in the Snow White, Ashkeladd and Albatross fields, also known as the Snow White field, in the Barents Sea. The Barents Sea and the Snow White Field are far from the gas market on the continent. The field is also far from existing infrastructure in the form of pipelines for the transport of gas to the market. Gas from Snow White is therefore planned to land on the Milky Island at Hammerfest in Finnmark via 160 km of pipeline. The gas shall then be cooled to liquid form in a large-scale cooling plant, a so-called LNG facility, from which the gas is transported by ship to the market. This is the first large scale LNG project in Europe. LNG is the only realistic way to extract the gas resources in the north. Although the business falls under the Petroleum Tax Act, this is a radically different form of production activity than the one we see in the North Sea today. Inner. O. No 2 for 2001-2002, on the Act amending the Petroleum Tax Act, means that expenditure on the acquisition of pipeline and production equipment can be taxed by up to 33 1/3 pst. per 1 % years when, according to the approved plan of expansion and operation and installations and operations under the Petroleum Act, the purpose is to produce and transport the gas pipelines to be cooled into liquid form in a new large-scale cooling plant. The proposal was originally promoted by the Stoltenberg government, but was not drawn by the Cooperation Government. The amendment of the law means that expenditure on the acquisition of operating resources is deducted more quickly than under the current rules of the Petroleum Tax Act. Under the general rules, expenditure on the acquisition of pipeline and production equipment may be depreciated by up to 16 2/3 p.m. on a tax basis. per 1 % year, at the corresponding rate for the income from the gain and deduction for losses. The amendment is general and does not take a final position on the Snow White project as such. A prerequisite for the development of Snow White is the existence of an approved plan of expansion and operation under the Petroleum Act. The amendment to the Odelstinget Act today does not imply the approval of the Snow White project, only a change of the fiscal framework conditions for such projects. The cooperation management has referred to the Snow White project in the Sem declaration. It is further stated that there will be a matter from the Government regarding the plan for the development and operation of Snow White before the next year. The case is expected to be closed before March 2002. It is in this case that the concrete assessment of the different aspects of the Snow White project is being carried out. In Ot.prp. No Therefore, 16 have not been examined for environmental or other aspects of development in the Barents Sea. However, the case has been dismissed by the Government in accordance with the other treatment of development in the Barents Sea. The reason for the amendment is that competitive framework conditions are a prerequisite for the construction of this type of LNG facility. This type of expansion is very important for Norwegian value creation from gas extraction. Development provides value for the community through the creation of a large number of jobs in a region that needs growth. The investments will be the largest in Northern Norway's history, estimated at DKK 35 billion. During the deployment phase, the project will require 25 000-30000 annual works. The operation of the installation on land will result in a total of about 500 annual works. The importance of regional policy for Finnmark and the Hammerfest region for the development of the Barents Sea is enormous. An expansion will also provide value for the country through tax entry. The change in the law results in a shift in taxation, but the tax input is still significant if the projects achieve their expected performance. The tax rate on the establishment is 78 p.m., which, for other petroleum activities, after three years, results taxed will not be deducted from depreciation. If Snow White achieves expected profitability, total tax revenue to the Norwegian community is estimated by the partners in the project at nearly DKK 50 billion over the entire duration of the project. Thirdly, technological competence in the Norwegian gas industry will be a long step forward. This type of large land-based LNG facility will be the first of its kind in Norway and Europe. Such facilities are technologically highly advanced, and the construction and operation of such facilities will bring considerable competence to the Norwegian oil and gas industry and thus increase international competitiveness. And: an expansion of the so-called Snow White field will be the first expansion of petroleum deposits in the Barents Sea. The development will lead to the establishment of infrastructure in the area, which could facilitate the extraction of other gas deposits in the Barents Sea. The profitability of LNG projects is expected to be good. However, the level of investment resulting from the distance from the markets and from the lack of infrastructure leads to lower taxation than the other activities covered by the general legal provision of the Petroleum Tax Act. The establishment of large scale LNG facilities implies, as mentioned above, the establishment of a new type of gas extraction in Norway and Europe. The scope of the activity is significant. Snow White alone is expected to have a total turnover of 140 billion in 2001. It is not unnatural for the Storting to clarify the fiscal framework for a new type of petroleum activity on Norwegian soil through a legislative amendment. The proposal therefore means that the tax depreciation period is halved. On the other hand, there is a prerequisite in Ot.prp. No 16 that the LNG facility on land falls under the petroleum tax regime by 78 pst. tax rate. Alternatively, such plants could have had a normal industrial tax of 28 pst. The economic consequences of reducing the depreciation period from six to three years are that the country receives lower tax revenues over the first three years and equivalent higher revenues over the next three years, compared to the legislation in force. The present value of the changed depreciation rules in isolation is estimated to be approximately equivalent. 4 pst. of total depreciable investments. To this end, the cooperative body wishes to provide a long-term, predictable and competitive framework for the extraction and export of gas from LNG facilities on a Norwegian base. The majority of the financial committee, all of whom are outside the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, are behind the proposal. The Socialist Left Party and the Centre are opposed to the proposal, and I expect them to justify their position in their speeches. For the government fraction, it is particularly gratifying that a broad, cross-political majority of the committee is behind framework conditions which open up a new chapter in Norwegian petroleum activities. I would like to recommend Odelstingen to join the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e99	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e102	I can only give honor to the case rapporteur for a review where you use so many positively charged words about a project that, based on a very common consideration from the party Right, should never have been realised. If you ignore the relationship with resource management, i.e. fishing in the Barents Sea, and if you ignore all the environmental arguments that argue against this being realised, but only adhere to today's text, it's interesting to see that the Right in the first case after the adoption of the new petroleum tax law, exempts from what, for the Right, has always been a sacred principle, i.e. equal conditions of competition independent of company and regardless of industry. It's pretty interesting to see that the principlelessness here is done almost to a virtue, and what you notice then is the following: So one goes here from the Right with selective state tax subsidies to a project that the company itself considered unprofitable for any reason. Statoil had put this project in a drawer a long time ago, until some politician from Finnmark, a former finance minister, picked it up again and made sure that a tax subsidy was paid to make this project suddenly profitable. This project is a State grant of approx. NOK 2 billion. I can come back a little bit to how this sum arises, but without these 2 billion kroner spent on state tax subsidies, this project would never have been realized by Statoil. For Statoil has always claimed that there is no economy in this. And it doesn't – neither from a social point of view nor from a corporate point of view, there is an economy. My question to the rapporteur is then: Is this a change in the general tax policy of the Right? Is the right now suddenly saying that selective tax subsidies should be applied to individual companies and individual industries? Is this a principle The right is going to continue when we talk about other business start-ups, other companies that think they would like to have a suction tube into the treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e109	There's a lot in Djupedal's articles that you could think of commenting on. I will address the question first. In the case of exemptions from the Petroleum Tax Act, it is natural to do so when entering a completely new type of industry on the Norwegian base. This is a technology and a mode of extraction that has not been used in Europe before at all, and it is natural for the Stortingeten to take a closer look at the fiscal framework in the context of the introduction of such new technology. Otherwise, it is a mistake that Djupedal says that the project is not profitable, that it should not have been completed. The project is very profitable both for the State and for the builder according to the plan of development and operation submitted. With regard to exemptions from the Petroleum Tax Act, this is not a new phenomenon. This has been done in the past in connection with new production activities. It was carried out in 1983 in connection with a water injection project in Ekofisk, and it had no consequences in the form of ex post precedent effects. So it's quite natural for the Right to look at the framework conditions for a brand new type of gas extraction industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e114	Obviously, when you make a lack of principle a virtue, it's possible to argue the way you do here. But does that mean that any new economic pathway in Norway that someone wants to establish, and for which Right-wing sympathy, can initially expect tax subsidies? Does that mean that this principle of LNG facilities in the form we know it here is something new? If you now – I keep out of principle – take into account the general provisions of tax law: Right does it not really mean that if you start something completely new, which does not exist here, we can exempt from the general guidelines of the tax law because we believe that this is so positive – if there is no business-economic profitability in this? That is the reality. Under the tax rules in force, business profitability does not exist in this respect. Then Statoil and the others had done this a long time ago, completely independent of tax subsidies. So we'll give them $2 billion on the way and say be so good, start! But the point is that this had never been started unless the Storting had done that sort of thing. What's interesting is that the right here introduces something completely new into its general industrial policy and its general tax policy, namely tax subsidies in a case where you want things established obviously for completely different reasons. Today's position on the Odel Sting under point 1.3, the Ministry's assessments and proposals, says that it wants to open the Barents Sea to gas activities and oil activities. That's the whole reason, of course, but you don't really say it up here in the hall either. The rationale is that significant tax subsidies are being used to start oil and gas activities in an area that has not yet been commercially exploited. My point is: if another non-oil and gas industry comes to Stortinget with a request for tax subsidies to start a new business, can this industry or this company initially expect Right-wing aid? Is this a lack of principle that one intends to go on to other matters, or is this a lack of principle that concerns only Statoil? And that's a pretty funny point that it's the state's own oil company right here want to favor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e121	There are many claims in this post from the representative of Djupedal, first of all that the projects are not economically viable. This is based on the petroleum tax rate of 78 pst. It is natural that the Storting, when faced with the type of heavy taxation of petroleum extraction, looks into the fiscal framework conditions when entering a completely new type of natural gas extraction. It was also claimed that there were tax subsidies of NOK 2 billion. That's not right. I register with interest that SV here bases both the post and the comment on a look-up in the financial sheet «Capital». Looking at the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, which are also supported by professional investigations, the change in the taxation of this Snow White project is just for information purposes. It is not a general principle for the Right to establish special rules for all types of business, but it is therefore a matter of a large, new, extensive extraction of natural gas, and for this reason it is natural that we look at the tax framework conditions for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e128	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e131	Statoil and the other rightholders have for a long time assessed the extraction of gas reserves in the fields Snow White, Ashkeladd and Albatross, and I am pleased that the previous government, the government of Stoltenberg, has arranged for us to get started in this area. I am also pleased that the sitting government is following up on this. When it comes to the further fate of this field, we get back to it in Stortinget when the whole issue of production, extraction and operation comes up. But for those who now want to get started in this area, it is important to know what framework conditions they should have. Should one conclude that one will open up petroleum activities in the Barents Sea with subsequent resource use, it could obviously have major ring-effects for the whole of this region. It's going to be the biggest industrial trip ever in Finland. In addition, this major industrial journey will provide the basis for putting natural gas into use in Finnland. If the plant is built, which I sincerely hope, it will be the first LNG facility in Norway, yes in Europe. It has great prospects in itself. Let me also link a few comments to what has to do with new framework conditions. We now have to deal with the law on the taxation of underwater petroleum deposits, i.e. if the builder, in this case Statoil with its partners, shall receive a faster deduction of its means of operation than would otherwise have been obtained under the applicable petroleum law. Today, pipeline and production equipment can be tax-depreciated by up to 162/3 pst. per 1 % years. The proposal that we are currently considering will mean that pipeline and production equipment can be tax-depreciated by up to 331/3 pst. per 1 % years. Questions have been raised as to whether the state is losing a lot on such a conversion. The plant will now be written down over three years instead of six years in the ordinary rules of the Petroleum Tax Act, which will imply lower revenues for the State in the first years and correspondingly higher revenues in the following three years. In this context, questions have also been raised about the other consequences of development in this area. I am thinking in particular of the environmental, including fisheries, etc. These are questions on which this setting does not contain sufficient analysis. There are questions that we are going to come back to in Stortinget when we are going to decide on the whole development, and it is being clarified. Then there were questions about the profitability of the project, and I heard in the reply that the profitability was not in place without making this distortion in the tax law, as one said. That, in my opinion, is not right. The builder says that the current Petroleum Tax Act is already profitable. But the builder also says that the risk in this project is so high that it would be useful to have a different depreciation system, so that you are sure that this will be better for both the state and the builder. I think that is right, and I sincerely hope that the vote will be given a solid majority. We support the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e154	I notice that the representative Nordtun highlights that there has been no thorough analysis of the major environmental consequences of this project. We are talking here about a principal opening of the Barents Sea South of petroleum activity. When the Barents Sea was opened South of search activities in 1989, impact assessments were carried out for exploration activities, and restrictions were put in place, which meant that almost half of the year would not be allowed to operate petroleum activities in the area in question. So now you're opening up subsidizing a project that involves year-round operation, in the area where you could look for oil and gas only half of the year. In addition, this project will increase Norwegian CO2 emissions by 900000 tonnes. I would like to ask the representative Nordtun whether he thinks it is okay that we should decide to subsidise a project as a big deal before we have considered whether we should at all carry out such a controversial project in an environmentally sound way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e163	We are in a very sensitive area environmentally friendly. I fully agree with the replicator that we must have a careful monitoring of this and know what we are doing. But that's not the question we have to deal with today. That question shall be addressed in detail when the so-called PUD – production, development and operation plan – comes to the Stortinget. Then we will have to take the political debate on what the future will be for the Barents Sea in terms of this new industry. But we have allowed research in the Barents Sea in certain areas, to see what resources we have and will have at our disposal in this area. It is also important to provide information on the framework conditions we want for those who want to seize and develop these important resources for the national and national communities. How much opening we have, what environmental consequences it will have, how much CO2 emissions will be, etc., will I come back to when we get this case to deal with. Today there is the Petroleum Tax Act and an adjustment of the depreciation system we have for treatment. And then we'll see what the result is for the builders. And when, in the next round, we get the whole thing to Stortinget, we get to take the debate on fisheries, on the environment, etc. I could go into this and say something about how these installations in the Barents Sea should be, if it becomes a reality, but I don't see this case on the basis that we have today in Stortinget, inviting to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e170	That the right on this question is unprincipled, surprises me, for there is a blatant breach on the Right in general stands for. The fact that the Workers' Party chooses to derogate from the general tax provisions does not surprise me, because the Workers' Party is traditionally unprincipled in all such matters. But if you take Nordtun's reasoning that there is profitability here, but the risk is too great and therefore the state has to grant subsidies so you have to be sure that you get a profit from the company, I have to ask the representative Nordtun: if I was going to start a sausage stall, and I think there's profitability in this project, I think I'm going to sell enough sausages to get a result of this sausage shop, and I'm going to Nordtun and say I'm not sure, the risk is pretty big because it might not be profitable in this project, and so I want to have a tax subsidy on the road so I'm absolutely sure that my sausage stall is going with excess, what would Nordtun have said? If you are to make the kind of reasoning in connection with the tax legislation as Mr. Nordtun now turns into a spokesman for, of course, we're going completely wrong. Nordtun knows that, and that's why he feels very uncomfortable with this setting. That is why the majority of the committee has not written a single word in that wording. They've only joined the ministry, for every word you write in an setting, could be used against one in the next round. Of course, this is a blatant breach of everything in general Norwegian tax legislation. Taking into account how the petroleum tax came into being in one of the last decisions The Stortinget did before the summer, this matter was so important that the fractional leaders of the financial committee were in the Ministry of Finance all winter and spring to clarify all the unresolved questions, so that there was no doubt when it was adopted in the Stortinget – and with great dissertation. It would have given an uncertain signal to the market, to the companies, if there was a big debate about our petroleum tax legislation. Then comes the first case on the table afterwards, and that the Workers' Party there is unprincipled, we have known from a long time ago, but that the majority of people are to exempt from general tax legislation – and in particular Mr. Nordtun, who is the tax expert in the Workers' Party – is very, very discouraging.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e179	I have to admit when Djupedal talks about his sausage stall, that I would have been worried if it was Djupedal who saw me coming in line and he was going to sell me a sausage, for what was inside the sausage. But to this we should be unprincipled in all such questions: The working party is not at all unprincipled in this matter. It's not a subsidy, a direct injection, we go in here, not at all. We invite a change in the depreciation rules for this type of expansion, so that it can be given the opportunity when the risk is so great. This case is linked to a single case in the petroleum tax legislation, and it is linked to LNG facilities. It will not be such that this paragraph cannot be relied on at all along the entire Norwegian coast for the development of petroleum. It's one plant, it's an LNG facility, and it's the only such plant in the whole of Northern Europe. We've been in the past and we've created special solutions to get things done, for example. in the Ekofisk field. I have to say to Djupedal that I am proud to be a part of a tax law that can make things work in Norway, get businesses going and employment up and create well-being in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e186	I understand that it is very difficult for the Workers' Party to talk about fundamental aspects of such a question, where one then definitely deviates from what is the general policy of the Workers' Party. But I'll still allow myself to be a little principled again. If I'm going to start a sausage stall with sausages of ostrich – I don't know if there are ostrich sausages in Norway, but let me just say that it doesn't exist – and I think there's a big market for this, there are no other ostrich producers or ostrich sellers in all of Norway, I'm the first one to do this, but the risk is quite big, does Nordtun think that I'm going to get a tax subsidy because I'm taking that risk with something completely new? It is this boundless lack of principle that they say there is only one LNG facility in Norway! This is otherwise a mistake, there is another small plant, but it is not the important thing. The point is that this will, of course, create precedent in legislation. This means that other types of installations – not necessarily LNG facilities, but a new type of plant that comes into the North Sea, which does not already exist – could come and say: Yes, but look at Snow White then, where you gave away $2 billion to get this going, which means that we will have the same thing. It is this precedent effect, it is this principlelessness that Nordtun strongly warns against in any other context of tax legislation, and which, not least the former Minister of Finance strongly warns against, I am responding to. The whole basis for tax legislation is that there should not be all the world's loopholes and tax subsidies and whatever else, for which Nordtun here makes himself a spokesman. I have nothing against, in substance, if you ignore all the environmental and resource positions, that it is possible to start business where there is no business before. But then you have to assume the general tax provisions that exist here. Let me just conclude by asking Nordtun: Does he agree that this tax subsidy is estimated to be around approx. $2 billion? And does he agree that this facility would never have been realized if the state had not given this gift to Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e193	I do not feel very comfortable when we constantly compare the development of the Snow White field with a sausage shed. Deep pedals are now expanding the sausage bin to include ostrich. I have to say there's a little difference here in dimensions. I am dealing in the setting not with a sausage stall, but with the Snow White plants that it is intended to lead to an industrial development in North Norway, in Finnmark, in the Barents Sea. It's about what's at the heart of this, as I perceived Djupedal's question to me: are we on a glider scale when it comes to fiscal policy in this business? Do we have no principles? In my opinion, we have very sound and good principles in the petroleum tax legislation in Norway. Petroleum taxes have been fixed over many, many years, and most recently in our confirmation by an overwhelming majority that they are quite firm in the future. When it comes to this plant that we are talking about today, I show you, among other things. to Ot. pp. No 16, page 3, first column in the middle of the side, where it is quite clear that this applies to LNG facilities, i.e. liquefied gas installations. We don't have many of them now, and it's related to this. We are making a change in the tax legislation on depreciation rules in relation to this type of facility, which means that the risk should not be so high. It is now profitable with the tax laws that we have, it will be, too, but we take into account a certain risk in this area. So we can say that if the environmental etc. in place, at least the framework conditions shall also be in place so as not to hinder development in this area. I am looking forward to the next debate with Djupedal – if this matter comes to Stortinget, which I hope – when we talk about the environmental perspective in terms of production, expansion and operation. Then we're going to settle that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e202	The President will say that normally the biggest problem in the sausage stall is choosing between the wines and the grill. The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e207	This issue that we are dealing with today is an important one, especially for the northernmost parts of Norway. The issue is whether to accept write-downs over three years instead of six years for large scale LNG facilities in Norway. This means less tax revenue in the first three years and the corresponding more tax revenue in the next three years. After a present value calculation, this means a theoretical, low tax loss for the state and a theoretical tax gain for the builder. However, this change is necessary in order to facilitate the development of this type of plant in Norway. First of all, it's about, as we know, that we want to facilitate the development of the Snow White field. Everything simply indicates that if we don't increase the depreciation rates proposed in the option, we won't be able to expand the Snow White field, with the consequences it has. As mentioned, the revenue from this entire installation shall also be taxed by 78 pst. and not 28 pst. Therefore, to present this as a subsidisation is, in my view, to misunderstand what this is all about. There is hardly any transfer of subsidies or public resources to this project. The cash flow simply goes inexorably the opposite way in the form of tax revenue to the public. If we don't increase the depreciation rate, we won't realize the project, nor will we get tax revenue on the project. If, on the other hand, we increase the depreciation rate, we're going to realize the project and also get tens of billions of additional tax revenue that can probably make it, to the extent that we find space sometime into the future to spend some of these money. In addition, the project will provide work for many. It will build up skills, and it will be a vitamin injection for large parts of North Norway. North Norway also needs more legs to stand on, and in this way this is a loving project, which can create many positive ringing effects. For those of us who are concerned with value creation and District Norway, this is a very good case. It is therefore not possible for the economic aspects of SV, the Centre Party and any individual representatives of other parties to oppose this project. I believe that some of the opponents are using this case, which is a modification of the petroleum tax law, to stop a project that they are opposed to in exceptional environmental terms. That's actually a little interesting, because then these representatives also admit that taxes give added value and new jobs. The last one is something that the Progress Party agrees with and can join, but we want to realize this project. The progress batch will therefore support the option of increasing depreciation rates for this type of installation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e222	This is a project that should never be realised, short and good because there is no socio-economic or business-economic profitability – neither from an ecological point of view nor from a position related to resource management. In short, this is a project that Statoil initially put in the drawer because the project had a high risk and no profitability at all, until some politicians wanted to secure re-election and pulled it out of the drawer and provided the necessary tax subsidies, which meant that this project in Odelstinget today is likely to receive this tax relief that has been wanted for so long. This is a significant tax relief to one company and there is a significant exemption from the general tax rule. In previous line changes today, I have tried to point out how unfair this tax subsidy is, and how limitless some may be in order to realise projects. Let me therefore quote a little from the well-known SV-organized Capital, which in a number for not so long ago had an article with the following title: «The government would subsidize Snow White: Two unassigned billions». I quote from the article: ‘The Ministry of Finance has proposed to grant nearly two billion kronor in tax credits to the Snow White project. They have only failed to mention the amount.The Ministry of Finance has proposed changing the tax rules for the Snow White field outside Finnmark. Funny enough later the department as if the change is general. In reality, it is tailor-made for Snow White.The Ministry of Finance will neither confirm figures nor admit that they have at all taken into account the effect of changes in the depreciation rules. Former Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen on his side believes that the tax bill for the Snow White field is a billion dollars. The only thing we find in the setting of the Storting from Odelstinget is that the present value of the change, with a risk-free discount rate, is calculated to be four percent of the total investment. But four percent of the Snow White investment of 35 billion is not one billion, but 1.4 billion. If we use a risk-adjusted interest rate, which Statoil must use, the effect increases to almost two billion... twice as much as Schjøtt-Pedersen himself thinks." I could have quoted so far from an otherwise excellent article in Capital, but this underpins what is my point, and which is the point of today's debate. There are many strong arguments in relation to resource management and the environment to ensure that this project should never be realised, but on the basis of a very general tax debate, which may be mainly so, it should not be realised. In addition to the subsidy of NOK 2 billion to launch a project that is unprofitable, this will also have other social costs. These are specifically linked to the emissions of CO2 that will remain in the project. On 18 October, the Ministry of Finance asked a question which reads: ‘Can the Ministry estimate the social costs of reducing other CO2 emissions in Norway corresponding to the total CO2 emissions from the extraction of the Snow White Gas, including the LNG facility?’ The Ministry of Finance writes a long answer, but I have to read the conclusion: ‘If these average costs are taken into account,’ – and then there is a cost of DKK 125, as estimated in the Green Tax Commission calculations – ‘the socio-economic cost of reducing emissions’ – i.e. in the rest of Norway, ‘with an additional 0,9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent through actions in Norway estimated at approximately EUR 360 million in 2001 in the Alternative with an international agreement and EUR 890 million in 2001 in the National Implementation Option’. So the department of laconic at the bottom writes that this shows how important it is to get into a Kyoto agreement. And we agree. Then you have to assume that this is to be taken nationally, because this is after all national emissions. The SV is fully aware that there are different international agreements for this, but the main emphasis of our emissions must be taken nationally. That means that, in addition to the two billion that we're going to subsidize this facility, we're going to have a social cost in a place between 360 million. NOK 890 and SEK 890 million. DKK in 2001-krona. Then we will soon approach NOK 3 billion in taxes and various subsidies that society needs to cover from this project. Then you can ask yourself why – and I have to say that is also a little unclear when you hear the different people who defend this project. The reason why you want this is, of course, that you want to open the Barents Sea to commercial oil and gas production. What we want to do here is to provide a significant start-up grant to put in place a pipeline, put in place the first installations and make it more reasonable in the next round to connect to this existing facility, and thus get a significant activity in the Barents Sea. That's the long-term goal. And here one tries to pretend that these are things to come back to, related to the message that the Government has notified about how to deal with the resource and environmental conditions in the Barents Sea. But if you think of this in a completely practical and logical way, you are giving permission today to open a sea area for commercial exploitation that, in our opinion and in the opinion of most experts, should never have been opened. After all, it is not without reason that all the professional bodies that have expressed their views on this project warn against it – State pollution control and all those within what are called environmental organisations and who have the right to be heard, as well as fisheries and resource management, from the Fiskerlage and all the way down. Nor is it that you stand there and take the wave up in Finnmark for all these alleged jobs that are to come here. On the contrary, the resistance of Finnmark is considerable, and that is because Hammerfest lives on fish. Hammerfest lives on fish, and so does Finnmark in general. The risks of commercial gas and oil extraction in one of the world’s most vulnerable sea areas are very high. That is why Finnmark's population is very doubtful as to whether this project should be realised. Because at the moment something happens in the Barents Sea related to this – let it be pollution, let it be emissions, let it be what it should be – of course, our fish export has much worse conditions. In addition, as a relatively obvious point, this can, of course, also destroy the resource base over time, so that fisheries, which are currently an important carrier in the Finnish economy, will have fewer legs to stand on. The Barents Sea is one of the world's most important spawning grounds for the North Arctic cod. In addition to all the arguments that have now been put forward against this plant, it is perhaps the most important thing, from a national point of view. Because that means that this sea area is not just Norwegian, it is a common sea area for the whole world that needs to be managed in line with the best ecological traditions we have, to the joy of Norway, to the joy of other countries, and to the joy of future generations. We're talking about an extremely difficult sea area, related to meteorology, with an average wave height of over two meters throughout the year – at the worst of course far above it. That means that at the moment that something happens, it will, after all, be very difficult to try to minimize an emission that exists today. Now more people here have said that you should come back to all of these questions in recent times, and that of course SV should be happy to do too. But there's as far as I can see, not a single substantive argument that Odelstinget is going to make the decision you're making today. If you had the money you want to invest here, in Finnmark, any other conceivable investment would result in more jobs, greater industrial ring-fences and greater stability for the local population in terms of jobs – and not least in an ecological perspective, it would be less likely to lead to greater emissions. This debate comes back to SV, but let me finish with the following, which is the main point of today's debate: If this unprincipledness that the Right Party and the Workers' Party are now at the head of selective industrial aid to one company, to one industry, can form precedent, SV looks forward to it. We are not in principle opposed to providing selective support when necessary. But in this project, it's all hair-driving, especially given that the last Storting did in ours, was to adopt a new petroleum tax law where the following principle was sacred: what's profitable before tax is to be profitable after tax. What is unprofitable before tax shall be unprofitable after tax. The first sacred principle of petroleum tax legislation, which was so important to both myself, Mr President, is to be dispensed with. Nordtun, Mrs Jensen and Mr. Mr. Brende, who was in the Finance Committee at the time, was repeatedly in the Ministry of Finance to ensure that there was no trouble in Stortinget when this matter came, because it could give an unclear signal to the market. We were not to have great dissent in what was the main individual source of income in the Norwegian state. And of course we agreed on that. In the first case, Odelstinget gets on his table, the same majority chooses to dispensate from what was a very sacred principle as late as June this year. On behalf of the SV Group, I will already report, as the President has of course understood, that we will move towards today's setting. We do not need our own proposals, because we do not think that these amendments to the tax law should be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e283	We have to take care of that at voting time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e288	I ask questions about the use of Djupedal’s words when it concerns the circumvention of subsidies. Anyway, this is a project, if you realize it, which will give us tens of billions in taxes to the public. And it all indicates that if one doesn't make this change in the depreciation rate, these aren't going to float to the public. So there is no transfer of funds from the public to the developer, yet the representative Djupedal says that a subsidizes, and that it is the society that has to cover these subsidies. I think this is an interesting use of the overdraft of subsidies. I wonder, then, when, for example, the Socialist Left Party. suggests tax relief to the low-paid: does this count as a form of subsidy or benefit, or does it only apply when there is tax relief or a change in depreciation rates for business? Is it only in the case of subsidies, or is it also in the other field of taxation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e294	This is not a philological debate – although I would like to participate in them as well – but the concept of subsidies is, of course, about exemptions from general legislation. At the moment I give myself tax relief, but not the others around me that I will otherwise treat in the same way, we're talking about subsidies. Today's Business wrote, for example, on 19 October under the heading ‘Stopping Snow White’, that there is a slight delay in subsidising climate emissions. The concept of subsidies is, of course, the only correct concept in this context, because one has to give a tax relief that de facto is a subsidy to get a project going. Had it been like, sir. Nordtun in a previous line to me said that this project is profitable, but there is a great risk of it, so we have to give it a tax relief, so it is obviously the same thing as the state is losing the revenues that the state would otherwise have – ergo this is a subsidy. And this is not a philological debate. This is a purely practical political debate. My starting point has always been the following: it is precisely this derogation, this subsidy, in the general tax legislation that is the most serious with this. It will, of course, form the precedent for other plants. That's why Statoil is now probably doing this. For Statoil is not enthusiastic about it. Statoil sees the risk of that. But Statoil has noticed the political pressure from the Workers' Party in particular and the Right to get this going. Of course, what Statoil also sees is the following: At the moment when the Stortinge derogation from general tax legislation once more, we can, of course, have it again. And that would be in the company's interest. That's why Statoil is now entering and realizing this project, but with a lot of fear inside, because they know very well that the risk, not only economically, but perhaps especially related to starting commercial expansion in such a vulnerable sea area, is great. And at the moment it smacks in the Barents Sea, it's not the Storting that sits with responsibility, then it's Statoil that the operator is in charge. Therefore, there is no enthusiasm for this in Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e305	I have to say first that this is a general change. Otherwise I did not feel that I received an answer to the last question I asked Mr. Deep pedal, if the Socialist Left Party calculates all tax laws, e.g. also to the low-paid, as a form of subsidy, or whether this only applies to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e312	I don't know how thoroughly I'm going to take this. What is contained in the subsidy element in this is a change in depreciation rules and they are general. Depreciation rules are general and not specifically related to LNG facilities. This means, of course, that when you change the depreciation rules here, you can do it because you say this is a LNG facility, and nothing else. But it is clear that the depreciation rates for the North Sea are just like depreciation rates in general. It has spent considerable time on the financial committee in recent years. In the case of office machinery, any investment, the tax law has a depreciation period. If you change the depreciation period of office machines for one company, and you say that it's a special type of office machine, not in general, then of course it's a tax subsidy that's in it. And you don't want to do that in general. What's interesting here is that you argue that this is a LNG facility, there's no other such facility. However, looking at the general competition policy that Norway is subject to under the EEA Agreement and other agreements, this is entirely in border countries, if not across border countries. I would assume that under EU competition law – if no other arguments can be used – one would say: Yes, this is contrary to the general competition rules that exist. It's not very often I use that kind of argument from Stortinget's pulpit, but I'm just saying it because this shows how the department uses this provision for an LNG facility as a rubber bar to try to avoid general competition rules that the department in general is otherwise the strongest defenders. What's interesting to see is that even the Progress Party, which is generally for framework conditions other than that SV is, but of course for equal framework conditions, here is just as unprincipled as the rest of the Storting – just as unprincipled! We think that these workplaces in Finnmark are so infinitely important that we don't care what principles you normally talk about in this room. That is my main point, and therefore this should not be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e321	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e324	The majority of the Committee, including the members of the Christian People's Party, has endorsed the proposal for amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act of Ot.prp. No 16th@item: The proposed changes to the law mainly result in a doubling of the depreciation rates for investments related to the production and transport of gas pipelines to be cooled down to liquid form. It implies lower tax revenue for the country in the first years and correspondingly higher in the next years. This gives a loss for the government and a corresponding gain for the companies. The proposal for amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act facilitates the fiscal framework conditions for field development which require the construction of large scale LNG facilities, as in the plans for the development of the Snow White Field. It is important to clarify that the legislative proposal deals only with fiscal matters, not with environmental considerations in the context of development. Environmental assessments are a matter of their own. The proposal for amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act adds the economic framework conditions. I would like to point out that the environmental objections will also be dealt with in detail in a separate case, and that the objections raised by the relevant professional authorities are taken into account. There is no reason to hide that the issue of the development of the Snow White gas field is a difficult one to which many dilemmas are attached. On the one hand, the development represents an opportunity for the northern part of the country to reap the fruits of its petroleum activity and the resources it is rich in, from which other parts of the country and districts have found great joy. On the other hand, there is a need to pay great attention to the challenges of development in terms of environmental considerations. There has been a number of criticisms about the lack of impact assessment and the lack of time in the proceedings to deal with environmental objections raised by the hearing bodies. Therefore, through the negotiations at Sem, the parties that constitute the Cooperation Government agreed to shift the project on time, so that more time could be taken into consideration and taken into account in the further consideration by the environmental objections of the Hearing Authorities. In the light of such a review and treatment taking into account the objections, the Christian People's Party can accept the Snow White project and the proposals for amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act presented in Ot.prp. No 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e346	This case concerns the amendment of the Petroleum Tax Act. Changes in the tax law may be some of the things that most affect whether we get a more environmentally friendly development, or whether we go in the opposite direction. We have almost no heavier instruments than taxes and taxes to influence future developments. The Christian People's Party is among the many parties on the Stortinget who say in their program that they want a green tax distortion – more taxes on consumption and pollution, and less taxes on labour and capital. Now, when we decide to subsidise a project that could be environmentally hazardous in the Barents Sea, which involves an emission of 900000 tonnes of CO2, this is the opposite of a green tax distortion. I want to ask the Christian People's Party: does it mean nothing that we are now adopting the subsidies first, and then we are going to come back and talk about the environmental consequences? Is it not the case that changes in tax rules are what determine whether we are getting more pollution or whether we are getting more environmentally friendly developments? Or is it that the Christian People's Party has given up talking about a green tax distortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e353	It is well known, and there is no need to hide, that there has been great scepticism for the Snow White expansion in the Christian People's Party. I understand the question of the representative, but it is important to distinguish between two issues. This is about tax law. The development shall be subject to an environmental assessment. The representative of SV is fully aware that it has and will be a majority in this room that is positive for expansion. It has been both before and after the election. The Christian People's Party may choose to stand outside, or to be involved and influence so that the environmental objections are thoroughly addressed, and the objections of the authorities are taken into account. The Christian People's Party has made a constructive contribution to the Sem declaration on the basis of these premises, and therefore proposes that an environmental assessment should be carried out. I guess SV is also happy that such an assessment has been included in the treatment. I think we should distinguish this from the green taxes, and take the debate on the environment when that debate comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e360	Of course, SV is always happy that the environmental consequences are being investigated more thoroughly than was initially foreseen. I have to tell the representative of the Christian People's Party that I often understand, and understand, the strategic assessments that the party makes to maximise environmental policy. But in this case, I find it difficult to follow the reasoning. So here you go for a subsidy on a project that will emit 900 000 tonnes of CO2. We have to remember that one of the Natural Force AS' gas power plants in the West would have emitted 1.1 million tonnes of CO2, i.e. slightly more than the planned LNG facility. It's a question I have very much respect for Prime Minister Bondevik choosing to go on. Why do you deal with this matter so differently from what you did with the ordinary gaseous power stations in the West is to me incomprehensible. And then now we're discussing whether we're going to have an environmentally friendly or non-environmentally friendly tax system, which is the basis for whether we're going to increase pollution or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e367	I would like to repeat what I said in the introduction. There was a majority of the Snow White project in this room, and the Christian People's Party wants to be involved and influence, so that we get the environmental assessments. It is right that it is important for the Christian People's Party to be involved in the environmental debate, and it is right for the Christian People's Party to continue to have a position on polluting gas power plants – and we hold on to that. But I think one also understands in SV that when it's an established majority, it's important to be on the road and provide another round that will provide an environmental assessment. And that's the Christian People's Party's environmental contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e374	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e378	The centre lot will go against the proposed amendment of the Petroleum Tax Act. We believe, as SV, that the principles recently adopted for the taxation of petroleum activities should also be followed in this case. We are afraid of the infective effect of not upholding the principle of which there was broad agreement, after a comprehensive process, and in such a near past. Oil companies are also asking for and should be given predictable framework conditions. According to the proposal, the infrastructure to which this proposition relates, primarily for the development of the Snow White field, will also ‘lightly extract other gas deposits in this part of the Norwegian continental shelf’, as it says. The centre batch has programmed that oil and gas extraction in the Barents Sea should not be authorised. We also believe that it is necessary to require that applications for search drilling include an investigation on, inter alia, the environmental impact of year-round operation. As far as I can see, the SFT is now clearly saying that the impact assessments submitted in relation to the operating application for the Snow White field are not in any way consistent. The centre party considers it to be very worrying that the majority will adopt economic incentives for an extension that may subsequently reduce the thumb in terms of the marine environment and spawning and growing areas for important fish stocks. I sincerely hope it is that there is the will of the majority to assess the matter properly when it comes, with these environmental consequences investigated. But I'm not quite sure that's the case. It's a very vulnerable and valuable area we're talking about. Fish also produce workplaces and ring-effects, and there are ring-effects and workplaces that are long-term based.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e391	Some gasfield expansions will be so remote from the markets that they are difficult to bring the gas into the pipeline, as we have traditionally done. Large scale LNG technology makes it possible to develop areas far from the markets and far from already established gas pipelines. There are no previously built large-scale LNG facilities in Norway. At the same time, international experience shows that the development of such facilities is often such that there are specific rules for the taxation of such facilities. The changes in the laws to which Odelstinget today appears to give its support involve general changes in the legislation for the acquisition of pipelines and production facilities for such large scale LNG facilities, which will therefore also apply to the subsequent expansion of large scale LNG facilities elsewhere than is currently the most relevant. The first project where the rules are relevant is the possible extension of the Snow White project in the Barents Sea. An extension of Snow White will open the Barents Sea for petroleum activity. Snow White is the first project in the Barents Sea. If it is realised, it will contribute to the opening of a new petroleum province on a Norwegian base. The working party considers the project as an important opportunity to also move the northernmost part of the country into Norwegian gas activity. In addition to the national importance of accessing the gas resources in the area, potential expansion also has significant regional impacts in terms of both jobs, infrastructure and industrial activities. An expansion of the Snow White field will be the largest industrial expansion ever carried out in North Norway. The coast of Finnmark has suffered both employment and population declines. The construction of an LNG plant could have a direct employment effect of approximately 180 people, and impact assessments show that development is likely to have an employment effect between 300 and 400 jobs. In addition, further industrial activity is possible. The working party welcomes any possibility of extension. Of course, the different aspects of the development and operation plan need to be carefully considered, but our starting point is positive. The Labour Party Government therefore also made it clear that it would actively facilitate the development of oil and gas activity in the north. I am pleased with the broad agreement that is on the handling of this matter today. The Government of Bondevik has stood behind the proposition presented by the government of Stoltenberg, and a total accumulation, with the exception of the Centre Party and SV, thus gives its support to the solutions. At the same time, it is important to point out some fundamental errors in the reasoning put forward by the representative Djupedal here today. Firstly, the claim that this is a project that is not profitable. Of course, it's all wrong. This is a project that is profitable before tax, and it is profitable after the ordinary petroleum tax. But it's a field of great risk, in a new area. I also record that the representative, Djupedal, is expressing that this is a question of subsidies. No, it's not. This extension is taxed by 78 pst. - 78 pst. – tax. It will, after I have been estimated, give a tax income to society of between 40 and 50 billion kroner. The alternative, if not developed, is that the Norwegian society had not been given access to these funds, which enable the Norwegian welfare community to be strengthened. I also note that the representative, Mr Djupedal, speaks of exemptions from the petroleum tax regime. Of course you don't. The size gives the petroleum tax legislation. And today's petroleum tax legislation is being amended to set at other depreciation rates for LNG plants than for other investments. In principle, there are different depreciation rates for ordinary buildings and constructions, for commercial buildings and for construction with a simplified design. In short, the reasoning about the famous sausage bow falls on its own unfairness. I am pleased that today we are given a clarification of the framework conditions for the development of LNG facilities in Norway, a clarification that provides the basis for a new activity in an area that is highly dependent on strengthening the basis of activity, employment and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e428	It is quite interesting to hear a former Minister of Finance making a lack of principle a virtue in his intervention now by showing that these are not tax subsidies, that this is profitable both before and after tax, and that the Storting is at all times quite free to make the changes that this entails, related to depreciation rates. Actually, it's a little disappointing -- to be completely honest. The reason why this is realized here is that this is a project that you want from the Workers' Party to open up the Barents' Sea to commercial oil and gas activities. So you have to give a little starter package, some kind of morning present, to make sure this is going on. If it really was like that, sir. Former Minister of Finance is now trying to spend it as, why in the world is the state going to give these subsidies of NOK 2 billion? Why should depreciation rates be changed to make this more profitable? Why should a discount rate of 4 pst be set, which is about half of what Statoil would generally have chosen, in such a risky project? Of course, you're doing all this for this project to be realized. Exclusion from the general competition rules is also beyond doubt, because although it is an LNG facility and there are no corresponding LNG facilities, there are many other pipelines to be compared with. So it is not chosen, simply because you have to use all the possibilities available to get a plant that you want to have a major ring-effect in Finnmark. Instead of saying it honestly and straight out that we choose this, we don't write it in the proposition, we hope no one notices it, and then we hope it goes through, so we can get this going. This is unprincipledness at a high level. And it is particularly disappointing to see that a former finance minister from the Workers' Party, who has otherwise made principles in the tax law and, in particular, in the petroleum tax law a virtue, was the one who put this before the Storting before the summer, where it was so infinitely important that the Storting agreed before coming to the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e439	There has been a lot of error from the representative Djupedal today. One is the question of the effects of tax changes on one of the projects discussed, Snow White. There's obviously a mistake, which several speakers have been talking about. The second is the claim that this is about an unprofitable project. It's not. This is a profitable project – it is even a profitable project after 78 pst. tax. But it's a project that's being expanded into an area where there aren't any installations in the past. It means that it has a greater risk than any other expansion has, and it is a new technology that, as far as I am aware, in other parts of the world also subject to tax rules other than other types of expansion technologies in the field of oil and gas activities. What this change involves for the individual project that is being developed – I stress that it is a general change to the tax law – is that it becomes more profitable and more robust in relation to risk. But that's not the right way the Center Party and SV write in the setting, that it goes from being unprofitable to becoming profitable. Then it is clear from posts and replies from the representative, Djupedal, that everything is taxed exactly the same and depreciated exactly the same way in the Norwegian tax system. But that's not right. They're talking about a subsidy and a derogation. Here's a project that has 50 pst. special tax in addition to ordinary taxation. But the most important thing about the discussion about sausage bob etc.It is not the case that all investments in Norway are depreciated at the same rate. Petroleum investments are generally depreciated at a different rate than other investments, e.g.: in construction. There are three to four different rates. I have noticed that the representative, Mr Djupedal, is proposing to amend the depreciation rates in the budget, and he proposes that there should be different depreciation rates for different types of construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e454	The representative Schjött-Pedersen underlined that these are general tax provisions applicable to LNG facilities – in this case LNG facilities outside existing pipeline structure, i.e. regarding location – and pointed out that the Snow White project outside the Finnmark coast would be the first to benefit from this general provision. It's interesting to see which other places we can get for the future similar LNG facilities that will receive the same type of tax subsidies. If I'm going to try to reflect around it, it might have to be relative to finding a large gas field outside the Lofoten, if you find one outside the West Pole, or, if you don't, if you don't find a gas pipeline to the Baltic, maybe outside Kristiansand – or if you open the Barents Sea north, there may be an LNG facility on Svalbard. Is that what this future Schjött-Pedersen believes that we are now taking into account, this is a much bigger environmental scandal than if it were just about the Snow White project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e459	We are not discussing environmental assessments of a single project today. We are not discussing today where we are going to operate petroleum activity on a Norwegian base. We are discussing whether, when we face investments in LNG facilities in Norway for the first time, we are going to make adjustments to our petroleum tax legislation, recognising that such LNG facilities are being established where it is far from the market, and that they traditionally have different tax frameworks around the world than the other installations closer to the market. And then the government thought Stoltenberg – and I'm glad that the government Bondevik has joined it, and that a large majority in the Stortinget seems to join it – that when we now see that it might be relevant to come with large scale LNG facilities in Norway, it is reasonable that they should have a different depreciation rate than other types of investment in the petroleum industry. But it is not fundamentally different from the fact that we have different depreciation rates for machines, for cars, for construction – for commercial buildings, for agricultural buildings, for construction with simple construction, etc. And I have registered that SV is behind a proposal in the Budget-inner. S. No 1 for 2001-2002, which proposes different depreciation rates for different types of investment. This is also the case within the petroleum tax system – it is open to different depreciation rates for LNG installations due to their specific nature in relation to other types of investment for which depreciation is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e469	This is starting to be an interesting exercise, I have to admit that. What we're into in the financial situation is going back to what Schjøtt-Pedersen and others did in Plaza in their time, where the new government is now going back on the depreciation rates of what it was before this budget deal. We've given our assent to that. We've basically never supported this, so it's a wise change that the new government has made. Otherwise in general, of course, we agree that things are written off over different time horizons. But what we're talking about here is that one special type of pipeline connected to one special gas is going to have a different form of depreciation than a corresponding pipeline somewhere else, but then with a different content. This difference, of course, makes this exempt from general tax legislation in relation to general depreciation and tax legislation. And it's interesting to note how Schjøtt-Pedersen is now constantly trying to talk about this and saying that there are different depreciation rates around the world. Around the world, there are hundreds of different petroleum tax regimes – of course. And that has certainly never been the starting point for Norwegian tax legislation. The starting point for petroleum tax legislation is non-discrimination. The State should have a rent plus a little extra – and non-discrimination. Every company should know that they are to be treated equally, regardless of what they do. This has been the principle of Norwegian tax legislation for all years, and it was tightened up not later than this summer, by the fact that what is profitable before tax is to be profitable after tax. Here one explicitly chooses to say that in this project there is such a risk that we have to give a tax subsidy of NOK 2 billion. But when did the risk become an element of tax law? Tax laws deal simply with investments, how to cancel them and how to obtain revenue from the State. At the moment you bring risk in as a moment, any trader can say that this has not been tried before, here is a risk, I have to have a tax subsidy, but I think it is profitable. The point is that Statoil knows there's such a big risk to environmental factors and to the economy that it hadn't been because the bulk of the population had puffed them, they would never realize this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e480	First of all, it's no longer right that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, is constantly repeating his 2 billion kroner. It's completely wrong and has nothing to do with reality. The second is: I didn't say there were different depreciation rates around the world, but I said that LNG facilities have a different tax from other types of oil and gas installations throughout. It is a reality that is related to the fact that they are consistently different from the market, and that they involve a different technology and other types of investment. So it's not like it's the new government, it's the previous government that proposed changes in depreciation rates. In fact, we also thought that something was taken hard in the Plaza. I record that in the new government it has become a sport to underline who has not gone very much in for what. It was not, of course, the Workers' Party that pushed forward that we had to make changes in the depreciation rates. Leave it. But what's important here is that SV doesn't question the fact that there are different depreciation rates on different investments. Here we're not talking about one type of pipeline for LNG facilities and one type of pipeline for other transport of gas. We're talking about a total investment, a total installation, from extraction up to processing in the LNG facility. There is of course another type of investment, a different type of project from other types of petroleum activity. I then find that a large majority in the Grand Duchy believes that this activity is very special. In the same way as distinguishing between different depreciation rates in buildings and installations – for commercial property and for construction with simple installations, and in the case of 1999 the regime had different rates due to the location of business buildings in the district or in central districts – LNG facilities are said to be so special that it is considered that there should be a slightly higher depreciation rate on investment in LNG facilities than on other investments in the petroleum industry. It provides a basis for developing an important new activity in Norway, based on LNG.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e492	This odelstingsproposition is promoted by the government of Stoltenberg. The cooperative management has not withdrawn it and is therefore behind the proposition. I also think it is gratifying that the motion for a resolution has received a broad agreement at Stortinget's treatment, from the government parties, from the former government party and from the Progress Party. This is not a treatment of the Snow White field, but it is a general change that can allow for the development of the Snow White field. I would be particularly pleased if this could be realized. For a representative who has been following Storting's treatment of the oil business for many years, I have to say that it will be very happy if the oil business now also gets ring-effects in North Norway, linked to this field. I'm just going to comment on a few of the objections raised by the minority in the committee. SV raises the question of whether the bill may conflict with what is stated as international competition rules. Now there is no such thing, but if you aim at EEA law and are concerned about it, I share the view expressed in the proposition that, under the EEA Agreement, the changes made here on a general basis are not contrary to the rules on unlawful State aid. The question has also been raised whether the field is profitable before development. The answer to that question is: Yes, it is. According to the plan for the expansion and operation of the group, the project is also profitable before tax. You can always philosophers about what changes would have resulted if you hadn't made them. To take into account the premise – which I do not agree with, but you can do it for example – as the representative, Mr. Djupedal, says that the field will never be developed, yes, there is a significant tax gain here if the field is extended. I look forward to a debate in ten years' time, where representatives tell about the 40-50 billion DKK that flows in from Finnmark as a tax from the Snow White field. Then probably also comes the debate on why we're pulling so much tax out of a part of the country. I don't know who's going to hold that debate, but I have a strong feeling that the representative Djupedal might also be able to participate on that side. Norwegian petroleum tax legislation has been in place for quite a number of years and has brought together broad support. This change is therefore also based on a political assessment that it is desirable to facilitate the extraction of petroleum in the northernmost regions, with the regional and economic repercussions that it is likely to have. In the current situation, the development of gas deposits is far from the export pipe systems on Norwegian Sockets depending on the cooling down of the gas to LNG and on the further transport of ships to the markets. The bill on more favourable depreciation rules must be considered in this particular context. Therefore, the adoption of specific depreciation rules for LNG-related investments should not give rise to any expectation that the development of other non-LNG-based oil and gas deposits should be subject to a tax regime other than the general petroleum tax rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e512	Let me first reassure the Minister of Finance: in ten years' time I should not sit in this Chamber, and I do not think the Minister of Finance should. This could be a relief for the Norwegian people today. Let me also say that now I'm not going to take the floor anymore in this debate, but I'm just going to be allowed to ask the Minister of Finance a question that I see as central. The Minister of Finance accepts the reasoning that this is State aid. But as he says, this is not contrary to the general competition rules applicable to the EU. This means that the Minister of Finance, at least openly acknowledges that this is State aid, is a subsidy, which the other debaters today who have spoken for this project have pretended not to be it – not least former Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen, who made a fine reasoning on why this is not State aid. But that's of course what it is – everyone knows that! Statoil knows that, of course, everyone who knows about this, otherwise it wouldn't have been realized. But let me ask the Minister of Finance the following question: He makes it clear that this is profitable, completely independent of taxes. I have seen the preliminary extension prospectus from Statoil, and it is clear that there is profitability in it under given conditions, that there are no exceedances, and that everything is on the rails. But Statoil knows, of course, that not everything is going on. We can just take Åsgard as an example. It didn't exactly go on rails, but nevertheless it was profitable after tax, despite an exceedance of 35 billion or even more in the end. The point here is this: Does the Right believe that entering a risk assessment by the authorities is a relevant argument in a tax debate on the realisation of projects? Has the right here dispensed from its very general view of taxation? Or do you actually believe that risk should be borne initially by the investor, and not by society elsewhere? That means right in every other context. You want lower taxes in general. That's another discussion. But I think it's the investor who has to bear the risk. That is what lies in the nature of all capitalism, of course. In this case, it is exempted by saying that the risk is to be taken by taxpayers. Is this a general position of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e521	If you misrepresent me, you can give me the strangest questions. I have not used the term ‘state aid’ about this rule. What I have pointed out is the EEA Agreement rules on State aid, because it was an attempt at a willing interpretation of what the minority means when they say it is contrary to international competition rules. In other words, there are no international competition rules, we are neither bound by competition rules in the EEA Agreement, we are bound by certain rules that are often perceived as such, and they are referred to as the rules against unlawful State aid. The general change in taxation made here is not contrary to EEA rules in this area. The representative is still repeating that it is a tax haven for Statoil. It's a misunderstanding. It's not a tax change related to special companies, it's a general change for LNG facilities. Whoever had to own this facility, it is regardless of the same tax rules that apply to all companies participating in the Snow White Group. Finally, the following point of view: I understand that SV believes that depreciation rules are sacred and can never be changed in tax legislation. It's a relatively new principle for me. But I mean to remember that SV has been involved in this myself. When the PC came, we didn't all think of it as a excavator. It was also a machine, but then you had to make arrangements for depreciation rules for PCs – because the PC came. It did not continue as if it were a spinning machine. In other areas, we have moved further towards differentiation in depreciation rules. I believe to remember that SV has several times been involved in differentiating depreciation rules – not depending on how it was built out, but where it was in the country. So, depreciation rules are probably not one of the things that is best kept in the tax code.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e532	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e537	I wanted the floor, because I followed the debate and became so angry that I had to take a three-minute post. There are a few things here that relate to very simple economic conditions, which I think it is important to grasp. One is this whole debate on depreciation rules and all of this, on which Per-Kristian Foss now had an elegant rounding. The important thing here is to think, what comes first? What debate comes first? Is it the debate that we in Norway need an LNG facility and therefore make very good depreciation rules for LNG facilities? Or does the debate go in this order: we want Snow White, and therefore we need to find some depreciation rules that make it possible to extend Snow White? Nobody has been following this debate, who believes that the issue is that in Norway we need many LNG facilities in terms of death and life. The thing is that there are people who want to have the Snow White plant built up. For this reason, some wonderful depreciation rules are being introduced for LNG facilities that fit the Snow White layout as a hand in the glove. That's it, and it's done with that case! You can say what you want about it, but that there is a subsidisation of this facility, as the debate has developed, there can be no doubt about it. Then I would like to say one thing about it with the depreciation rules that the representative Hagesetter had in the past, namely that it is only written off a little bit more first, then it is written off a little less later, and it was supposed to be – what he said – correspondingly less afterwards. But everyone sitting on the Finance Committee should know that the present value of these depreciations is greater the earlier they arrive. The earlier you get the depreciation, the more favourable they are for a company that is in the tax position. So that's favorable, there should be no doubt about it either. And then to something that hasn't been up in the debate before. We use tax policy towards companies to say something about where we want investment to come. After all, we must assume that the oil companies as such have a limited investment capital that they can use. You can do it, for example. invest either in the further extraction of the oil reserves already in place or in the development of some concessions already on the base. It must be assumed that Statoil or other oil companies will do with the oil money they have, if not the Norwegian state now goes in and says: we would rather that you would channel the investment capital into the Snow White field, because there we give you extra favourable tax rules. And that's what we do. When someone says we have to be very happy with the income that comes in the future, the truth is that these revenues would come anyway. Now we get them from there instead, and that's actually less desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e548	It is interesting to hear that depreciation rules are referred to as ‘combatants’ or ‘glorious’. This is not the way the Ministry of Finance is used to hearing, but I'm taking it with me. I don't want to say it's warmer, but I'm taking it with me. I think the representative is right that tax rules have something to say about where the investments are coming from. If in Norway we have definitely lower tax rules for LNG facilities than in other countries, I think the representative is quite right that they will not be in Norway. So the representative may be quite right that if we hadn't made this change, Statoil might have invested in other oil facilities in Azerbaijan, Nigeria, Mozambique, Angola or elsewhere. Or: The investments in LNG to fill a market — an international market — might come to Indonesia, which already has huge LNG facilities for international exports. So I'm actually glad that we now get tax rules that make us competitive on the LNG side too, so that the facilities can come to Norway, not just in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e563	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e605	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e617	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22-lower.ana.ud1275e631	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
