ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e51	Before we go on with the debate, the president would just say that we're soon up in the same number of 3 minute posts as when we started at the 3 minute posts. It'll be a long night if it's going to continue this way. We have many more cases plus a meeting. The President asks the representatives to take this into account when they are thinking of drawing on several 3-minute posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e54	The ferry link Hjellestad – Klockarvik in Hordaland County is a national road link that has been proposed. The justification is that the level of risk is high and that the current ferry does not meet the necessary safety requirements. The majority of the Committee supports the closure and clearly shares the Ministry's view that a new ferry is not efficient resource use, as it says. As is the case in the budget position, there is no alternative to this ferry link in place, nor is the financial responsibility of a closure. The situation is that the ferry passes through two islands with 70 residents who have no alternative transport to and from, and the argument that road users have re-routing options, as stated in the proposal, therefore seems strange. In the budget configuration, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have a note that the ferry link is not to be closed as long as the inhabitants of Lerøy and Bjelkarøy do not have another adequate alternative. So this has not joined the government parties or the Progress Party. When it comes to closure, I assume that there is no money on the 2002 budget to operate the connection when the ferry is proposed later this evening. Then the parliamentary leader of the Right last Friday told the NRK – on the Vestlandsrevyen – that the department should take care of it. And then the question is, will the government secure the highway link until a proper ferry option is in place? In fact, it is very important to clarify to Sund Municipality, Hordaland County Municipality, and not least the inhabitants of Lerøy and Bjelkarøy, who have no transport options. I hope the Council of State will respond to that during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e67	At the end of the debate, I would like to thank you for a substantive debate. There is a lot of discomfort – there is a clear block division – in the Stortinget today, and if this is the way the new government should go, it becomes to the right, and quite strongly to the right. What I'm sorry for is that I can't get the basics of AS: the goal of creating AS is to get better, safer and more efficient transport. In the Workers' Party we are also for better, safer and more efficient transport, but we do not believe in the form of a limited company as an instrument. I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party are happy today. They have been implemented for a policy for which they have not yet received multiples in this room. It is stated in the National Transport Plan that they want AS and that they will gradually privatize. I am not sure that a limited liability company should be read as a State limited liability company. There is not only a slot in the configuration. I am also pragmatic about how we should do it, but the way in which the decision itself is taken, or the ‘decision’ to use it, is quite perceptive. And then when one makes a point that they're going to be allowed to join and decide, I know it almost as if a father says to the daughter that you have to marry me, but you're going to have to decide what the wedding should be like. It's kind of a little bit of an impact when the goal is kind of fixed. And it's, as I said, not that it's the Right Party and the Advance Party that have changed vision, but it's the Christian People's Party. The representative Holten talked about that in five years a lot could change. Therefore, they could be for AS today, even though they were against it five years ago, as Bondevik was then. What is more perceptive is that the Christian People's Party opposed this on June 14 at the representative Sahl. It's very eye-catching. For those who are a bit involved in politics, and who are concerned about this out in the country, it must be quite shocking. I want to challenge again the Christian People's Party on what view they have of who is for this, who matters in these industries. The post office and the NSB are for this, they say. Yeah, there's a couple of things in the rental that have spoken out. They get more power by this, but the Post and NSB are more than the lead. That's actually a lot of thousands added. Is the Christian People's Party simply not occupied by the people who have neither the resources nor the people who have the right to speak at all? I have received a little response to what I have asked for, but I understand that goes towards AS, and I am afraid it is going against privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e90	The attitude of the Committee on Transport and this debate has shown that the Progress Party has had an impact on its policy when it comes to the restructuring of the area of transport. That Right supports this is not a surprise. This is a policy that the Progress Party and the Right have stood for and still stands for. I have earlier today stated that I wonder that the Christian People's Party has the position they are now expressing, then in the light of the comments made by the Christian People's Party only a few months ago. It will otherwise be a little easy when the Chief Speaker of the Christian People's Party uses guarantees from the Minister of Transport as an important part of the explanation for the Christian People's Party's new position. When I asked questions to the Council and asked for confirmation of the guarantee and a little about the basis for the guarantee and the length of the guarantee, there was no answer. Then there is reason to ask whether the Christian People's Party has built its new position on a failed basis, or should we rather say on a sand ground? I know that many in the Christian People's Party are both surprised and critical of what is happening with the Christian People's Party in government and greatness. In Sogn and Fjordane, it has been the county councilman and former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, Svein Ottar Sandal, according to the newspaper Firda from Wednesday 12 December, ‘open that the KrF in Sogn and Fjordane are united in part of the criticism of the government’, and that they ‘on these points may participate in forming a common front’. And further, it says in Firda's newspaper: ‘He strongly criticized the way Mr. Frp went forward in Stortinget, and warned immediately – three months after the government formation – that the KrF could jump off.’ We do not know the consequences yet. Currently, it is too early to fall a sentence. But at one point we have to stand up and see if we get what we actually wanted. See from Sogn and Fjordane, we haven't had enough in this budgetary agreement," said Svein Ottar Sandal. – This must be called clear words from the Christian People’s Party of their people outside. The question I want to ask is whether the big group and the members of the government of the Christian People's Party are listening to their trust leaders, and whether the Christian People's Party has the same attitude in government, greatness and out in the masses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e110	The election campaign in Akershus, and especially on the west side, was marked by social challenges in that part of the county. From our point of view, we have given priority to three main tasks: double-track Asker – Forest collective connection to FornebuE16 from Sandvika to Sollihögda It is a pleasure to note that their progress is now in place. In particular, it is good that the threat of possible diversion of the funds to E16 to other projects is gone. This threat lay there for a while because the municipality of Bærum asked for more time to find out an extra alternative to the trash. Now the money is there, and the residents along the E16 are satisfied, and will enough to breathe lightly out tonight when the vote is over, and they know that the money is there, although there may be some delays. A brief comment also on the double-track Asker–Skøyen. Although it will be a few years before we can make use of it, we see that users of NSB's local trains are up to this. Today's offer is full of trains and delays. That's why it's important for us to keep pace and funding up, so we're guaranteed that the work on the double track keeps the plan. In this connection, when I am inside the NSB, I would also like to make a little visit and a comment on the Right's proposal to facilitate competition in passenger services on the railway lines of the railway system, and that in this respect one has to take into account, among other things. The track capacity. I'm assuming they don't think about the Asker-Oslo section. There's no room for as much as one small extra take-off. Otherwise, it is a little tempting to bring a small invitation to the Right, which went out high in the election campaign and promised to give priority to the E18 now. Both local candidates from the Right, as well as the then civil society spokesman, visited Asker and Bærum and promised several times E18 now. Then it is with wonder that we note that the transportation challenges on the west side of Akershus are not mentioned in a single word in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4, neither E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e135	In this debate, several speakers call for a better supply when it comes to public transport. And more goods on the keel have also been a stated goal according to several plans that have passed this house in recent years. A project that combines these two objectives on the coast is the realization of a tunnel through the city. This project has now matured through planning and basic drilling, so that the next steps now point towards decision and implementation. There must now be no doubt about the will to bring this about a physical solution, so that this extremely dangerous piece of sea can be avoided for the part of the shipping to which it applies. In that context, I look forward to the message the Government has notified of the project. I am glad that in this setting it has been said that one should evaluate the six ferry connections that are today so-called supply connections. It is obvious that the use of so-called gross contracts in these relationships is not an optimal method of achieving the most efficient service for each krona. Let it be said in this debate that a bid is to be made for ferry services – and I see it coming – it must be that the companies involved in this competition have an economic interest in the satisfaction of the users and that the company receives the revenue from the traffic. This will create greater interest in companies in providing good services. In this context, I find reason to mention that the detailed management we have today when it comes to holiday equipment is very strong. To operate according to the principle of supply, companies must be given greater freedom over the disposal of the material held by the ferry companies. Without it, this won't be an effective bidding competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e146	I find it necessary to draw the attention of the Council of State to two plural comments when it comes to the treatment of the national transport plan. Both of them are on page 83 of the Innst. S. No 119 for 2000-2001. The one relates to better communications in Ryfylke – an area in Rogaland where it is still night closed and column running 365 days per. year – and the name of the Committee: ‘The Committee’s members from the Christian People’s Party, the Advance Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left refer to the mention of different continental relations solutions for the Russian Federation and that the revision of the Ryfylke Transport Plan is under way.These members expect the Ministry to follow this matter up more closely when local policy decisions are ready.’ The local policy decisions were ready in June. In December, the county council provided further clarification in the case of toll pre-purchases in order to realise the mainland link, the Ryfylke link and Finnfast. I look forward to following up from the Council of State. So the theme alternates the use of ferry charges. In the Center Party, we were happy with the broad plural that is behind the comment on this in the Inner. S. No 119. It was a great pleasure in Rogaland that a broad majority asked the government to come back with a matter of its own to the Stortinget. One of the projects that appeared to be highly topical as a pilot for such an experiment is Findfast. One batch, that's left, found it necessary with its own comment and own text for the media. They presented their own commitment as stronger than all of us had, in order to realize such solutions. In today's setting, there are new comments that underline the fact that the Government has to come back to the Storing where this is the case. I am surprised at the lingering hold that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party show in their remark. I also know that e.g. The leader of the county, from the Right, in Rogaland is. The manner in which they express themselves gives reason to ask the Council of State what plans it has in relation to its follow-up. She has not intended to embarrass Gunnar Kvassheim, May Britt Vihovde and those who believed in the Left, in embarrassment when they flag so high an own and extra strong commitment to get more mainland connections with co-financing from ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e162	It's touching to hear the opposition's warm concern for the Christian People's Party and the problems that night meetings create for us, among other things. expressed by the representatives of Meltveit Kleppa, Ausdal Starrfelt and Ringstad. I can reassure the same people that these negotiations came ashore in the daytime, and we actually acknowledge the decisions. I know about other negotiations, where else the centre party was involved, which happened to the Workers' Party in the late hours of night for approx. a year ago. But maybe it's best that I don't comment on it further. So to the representative Tomas Norvoll – who promises the least and keeps the most, according to himself. He minimizes our efforts to bring down the flight prices and concludes that the cancellation of the air passenger fee is irrelevant. The husband to throw stones when you are sitting in a glass house, I think you should look for a long time. What has the Workers' Party done to bring down flight prices? Absolutely nothing! Here I can also try to be a history writer and refer to the treatment of the national transport plan, where the longest working party could extend, was to participate in a majority comment on reduced prices on the regional grid. The working party would not at all be involved in the proposals made by SV and the centre parties in relation to the main route network. So to Bendiks Harald Arnesen, who predicted the fury of the districts when these ASs came. I apologize, but I thought it was the Stoltenberg government that got a district uprising against it last winter and spring, and that got an election result in line with that. I want to remind the representative Bendiks Harald Arnesen that the uprising actually started in the north. And as far as I have understood from the evaluation process in the Workers' Party after the election campaign, this is recognised today, according to the media. But I take seriously the warnings of Bendiks Arnesen's representative, and I hope that we will jointly avoid such an uprising in the near future. Finally, the representative Sverre Myrli, who believes the tradition shows his ability to describe history. Of course, I agree with previous joint remarks where we stressed that NSB BA is still going to be a state company. That's exactly what I said in my main post, a 100 pst. State-owned limited liability company. It will be no less credible if we say it together with the Right Party and the Advance Party than if we say it together with the Labour Party. Finally, I would like to remind the representative Sverre Myrli that the Stoltenberg government part-privatized the NSB goods a few months ago, in May this year. But it's been in the forgetbook.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e175	Good food is gold worth. But the good food soil is often laid and distributed in such a way that it conflicts with new transport projects. We need to know that no matter what opportunities new genetic technologies and the acute revolution in the breeding industry give us, we will still need good food soil. But what's food for a new highway? When the reasons are set up against each other, the food soil often loses. This budget grants money for a project that the environmental movement has fought hard against for ten years. It is new E6 at Melhus, where it will initially go with approx. 300 covers of food. For those who have a bit of a bearing on agriculture, this is Class A, the best cereal soil we have in all of Norway. If the project is continued as foreseen, it will add up to approx. 1 000 targets. Until that project, 140 meters of the road has been proposed to be placed in the sheltered watercourse of Gaula, and that the entire 7 km of the track goes within the hundred meter belt. I'm glad that, fortunately, a majority of the committee is involved in a comment that says that you should go through the impact studies that have been made, when you add up to a four-field motorway where you initially had only two fields planned. I consider it a good people's custom to try as far as possible to answer the questions that are asked. But when that does not happen, I will allow myself to repeat the questions of the Christian People's Party: Why could not the Christian People's Party join in the joint comment on air pollution and that an evaluation of the road projects related to the new criteria should be made? Why was it so hard to be part of that project? Why couldn't the Christian People's Party, when they promised it a hundred times in the election campaign, be part of the shattering team for Oslo Sporveier? And if it's as important as Jan Sahl says, that the majority imagined a public limited liability company, why didn't they write that in the cancellation? The word «State limited liability company» is not included in the statement. If that's what you meant, why didn't you write it in? When it says what it says, we must assume that there is privatisation. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: what the majority of the committee has voted in favour of has weakened the environmental profile. State Council Børge Brende will rehabilitate Norway's external environmental face. Has the Council of State intended to help him with that? And does she share my view of the work of the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e188	The Short-Range Network has been discussed during the debate on the conversion of the Aviation Agency into AS, and it has been discussed to what extent the Storting will have an impact in the future on the development of the structure. Now, during the spring session, the Storting will be receiving a report on the short-range network at an early stage, I suppose. The Swedish Aviation Agency has provided an investigation and we are aware that this investigation discusses the possible closure of up to several short-haul aerodromes. In the setting, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have a common note that the notification of the Short-Range Network should be addressed in the context of the revision of the Transport Plan, where the Short-Range Network must be seen in the context of other infrastructure such as road, rail and maritime transport. That would be the natural thing. The majority did not agree. Furthermore, we stressed that this communication should be sent out to municipalities and county councils for consultation – especially to the local and regional transport authorities. My question at the end of the day of the Minister of Transport is whether the Government will send this message to the hearing of municipalities and county councils before it is submitted to the Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e198	As several of the three government parties have stated earlier in the debate, we are very pleased with what the Storing will adopt tonight. We are proud of the turnaround we are doing, which in the long term will provide people in Norway with significantly better transportation services. I have noticed, however, that not all of the Storting share that joy, and I have noticed that several representatives have come forward and tried either to ridicule or to make the changes we are making, relatively small. I want to ask a few questions. When the representative Signe Eye stands up and criticises what we haven't done, even if we've been done a little bit when it comes to Østfold, where were she and the Labour Party the years they put in position and had multiples? What did they do on that page? By and large nothing. What about Tomas Norvoll, who is trying to ridicule the billion-dollar savings we have on the passenger fee, which will give lower prices? One might say that that billion is too small, but at least it's a good start. What has the Labour Party and the representative Norvoll done when this is the case? The answer is, nothing at all. I want to send a little Christmas greeting to these two representatives in particular. I want to do that with a verse from a poem that was written by me in 1867 called Etterstev, also known as "For layering to everyone, no one can do". So with special greeting, if it's allowed, to the representatives Eye and Norvoll, I'll quote one of the verses, which reads as follows: "D" is enough for many who will judge and hide everything that the others do, and listen to them, and find them around them, and they themselves do nothing."
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e220	Since it was a quote, the president should leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e223	I have listened with great interest to the various contributions to this debate, and in particular I have noticed all those who have concerned questions relating to the conversion that is now being carried out for the NSB, Posten and the Aviation Administration of AS. I also want to clearly repeat and clarify that this is a whole-time state AS. I have noticed that criticism and the fear of several speakers from the Labour Party and the Central Party have expressed in connection with this transformation. The representative Starrfelt wondered if we were not interested in bringing not only the management, but also the employees on such a transformation. Yes, of course we do. The Council of State has also said in its statement that this is going to take time. It is quite natural that there will be a long and effective process to try to find the best possible solution. What we want with this transformation is to get a better use of resources, more efficiency and better service. Then I cannot fail to make a small comment related to the question raised by the representative Signe Eye, where she says that it is very little that has been done on the Eastfold roads in recent years. There is then reason to note that it was actually Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum the time that, in cooperation with the county council in Eastfold, invited to a meeting. This significant matter was then raised by the Council of State Day Jostein Færvoll from the same government, which then promoted the so-called Eastfold package, phase 1, for the Stortinget, which was also adopted, and which has now received its continuation by the fact that our Council of State has taken up again the willingness to invest in facilitating better progress on this difficult road. Then, for my part, just like the committee leader, I would like to ask, what has the Labour Party actually done in this matter over the last five or ten years when they have been in position? I think we're all wise to be sober in dealing with the individual issues. Here it is to do the best possible solution, for common benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e234	In the case of the ferry link Hjellestad-Klockarvik, the Stoltenberg Government proposed that this be closed for safety reasons. Now I'm aware of the situation of some of the people who live in the area, who lose an offer. The head of the road and the county department are working on an investigation to find a solution to the matter. There's going to be a vacation there while you're now working out a new solution. So back to questions that have been about my guarantees regarding the challenges we face in the transport sector due to transformation into state limited liability companies. In this room, we are now going to adopt this evening a budget that is part of that guarantee – that is, here we are actually doing the policy, that is, here we are laying the framework for what we want with the policy. That's why I'm a little surprised that there hasn't been a major discussion about what we really want about the transport policy. I'm also a little surprised that, after all, the Co-operation Government has come to an agreement with the Progress Party on a collective effort that is better than the Labour Party government has been able to present in its budget. I'm actually quite satisfied with that. With regard to transport solutions in Eastfold, I would just like to stress that we will come back with how we imagine that we can speed up the development of E6 in Eastfold. It's an important thing, and we'll get back to it. In the case of the short-distance network, it is clearly a matter which must be consulted in the counties concerned. The short-haul network acts in practice as bus stops for large parts of our country. When we have such assessments that are now made from external resources, it is important that we have a process in relation to the affected areas, where we can make our views known.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e247	I want to do what the representative Frøiland of the Workers' Party did in an earlier article today, simply talking about the Christian People's Party's policy on social relations. I understand that the representative of Frøiland would wear off a little if she were to fill the speaking time with talking about the Workers' Party's transport policy. The so-called representative characterised the Co-operation Government’s budget for trade as ‘a symbolic increase’ in relation to the government of Stoltenberg. This is interesting – that a member of the financial committee characterises an increase of 165 million. kr for road construction and for collective investment as a symbolic sum. It's an interesting definition of symbolism. Of these 165 million. I'm going to go $5 million. kr for the forced planning of the urban railway in Bergen. This is noticed, and this is appreciated in Hordaland. The western capital needs the urban route for both environmental and traffic-efficient reasons. And another $15 million. Allowed to increase the discount rate in the proposed school and student discounts on monthly cards and so on. – a good and realistic collective effort, once again an instrument for which the Christian People’s Party has been one of the champions. Then I also registered that it was extra heavy for the representative Frøiland that the representative Lioness from the Christian People's Party was not present at her post. I have therefore examined this a little more closely, and it turns out that the representative Lioness was present during part of the debate, but he did not register that the representative Frøiland was present, and perhaps that is why he left the hall. He probably didn't know that Frøiland's representative was on the list of speakers, because if he had it with him, I'm convinced that he had stretched very far.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e256	The customer should be in focus, has it been said here today? Then I think, who is the customer? I believe that in relation to transportation, there are enough people who imagine a trailer than a stroller. For a business economy, things about security are all too often winning over and what I want to call mental hygiene. I have sometimes said that a large part of the budget for transport should in fact heal within health instead, because this is so much about safety. I know a lot about that, because I've offered most of my life in Hardanger. But it is clear that large projects and monuments have greater status than the smaller ones. It's not so big to say that this dump of speed is what I've been with and fighting for. I think the budget has shown this for years. I who have been displaced harding, but have bid in Hardanger most of my life, understand well the mind and the resignation in Hardanger now when many feel that they are fooled by large racial protection laws – traffic safety past Agatunet, which is suddenly being moved to other places because one says that it is more necessary there. I think maybe you have to feel this on your body to know what it's all about. For 12 years I have run past this area in winter, stopped the car, shut down the window, quite quietly listen to the breed – and then passed by. There is security here, not primarily whether it can be exciting to bow in District Norway or not. Buildings, parents, well-beings work for their small measures around the countryside, and most people, unfortunately, have too little faith that it will work. Then I think, why is it like this? And the answer is very quick: they've learned it from experience. I have a dream that kids should actually be able to walk a few hundred meters on a safe school road, that parents should feel calm in the soul when the kids take the bus to school in winter. So my call from here in relation to transportation is that more than SV will take over these signals that come from people, and that the customers are about the whole population and not maybe the people who shout the highest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e263	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e266	It should not be a habit. I just wanted to tell Odd Holten that it is the government that has the primary responsibility to get the budget through. I'm sure the Christian People's Party went to the Advance Party, not the other way around, so it's a little unthinkable to expect the Labour Party to come to the Christian People's Party. So I thought maybe the council would answer a lot more questions. What about List Airport? What with the will to rule AS politically? Will we follow up on the national transport plan for the next three years and resume the slowdown of the previous year? And instead of blaming the Storting for not understanding, can't one try to explain either?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e273	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. [[Fooding, see page 1046]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e289	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1069]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e305	In the absence of the rapporteur, I have been asked to present the matter to Stortinget. It's a unanimous committee behind the comment and the setting. The Socialist Left Party has an additional comment, which they will probably make themselves clear for later. I am pleased that the Stortinget receives a detailed annual report on the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries. For the first time it seems that the matter has received a lot of attention, so I hope this is a signal that the Storting is now more interested in fisheries and resource policy. In the Committee's view, it is important to manage our fisheries resources in a good manner, which we essentially manage together with other countries. It is also important that we ensure adequate and sound growth, which can provide good and safe framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry. Sustainable management and a clearly defined governance policy shall, in the Committee's view, be guiding at all stages of the Norwegian fisheries policy. The sustainability requirements and the precautionary principle must be clearly defined and visible to all in Norwegian fisheries management. If Norway is to continue to have authority and respect for international environmental, management and fisheries policies, we must operate in accordance with the principles set out in the committee setting. It is particularly important to reach agreement with the negotiating parties on a sustainable fisheries policy. We know that Norway alone, without the assistance of other contracting countries, does not get far in the goal of being a leader. My impression is that the Committee is aware that there may be different interests in the fisheries and agreement policies of the different countries. I also agree with the importance and importance of the fact that a signed agreement is far better than no agreement, and this applies not least in our contractual relationship with Russia, and also to some extent with the EU. I am convinced that the Ministry of Fisheries is well equipped to carry forward this committee's basic position in the forthcoming fisheries agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e322	Fisheries are increasingly referred to as the industry to take over as the largest export industry after oil at that time. If we are to achieve this, we must also secure the fishing resources for the future. Sustainable taxation of resources requires international cooperation and agreements. From the Labour Party, we are concerned that Norway should continue to be a driver in this work. We also need strong control and criminal rules against illegal fishing to ensure that the resource take-off does not come out of control. Norway, together with Russia, has a management responsibility for the Barents Sea. Without an agreement with Russia, and without an agreement, we have no government either. That's why it's so important to come up with agreed agreements, even though these don't always get the way we would have liked them. Norway could, of course, have managed its part of the Barents Sea for itself, but now it is such that the fish does not care so much about neither grey zones nor borders, so such an administration would not be worth it. Although the committee expresses concern about the situation of the cod stock, I assume that everyone can imagine the situation that could have arisen without us having an agreement in place. As I see it, there are a lot of cracks in the minds of Norwegian and Russian researchers about how much it is possible to take out. But we've, after all, made it clear that we have a government in place. So the alternative is not an agreement and no administration. Therefore, a high level of international cooperation in research work and a common understanding of the real resource situation are so important and how this can be addressed. In its comments, the Committee calls for international legislation to take the necessary account of management issues, control and reporting. An overall committee is pleased that Norway and Russia have signed a memorandum on control work. Marine mammals play an important role in marine ecosystems. Like other living resources, the surplus in these stocks must be harvested. An overall committee takes note that in 2001 Norway set a catch quota of 549 wave whales, and we have recorded that the stock of whales is now so large that the whale can no longer be characterised as a threat of extinction. I consider a reasonable tax on marine mammals as an important part of securing fish resources for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e340	«Critical criticism of the fisheries management» wrote the Evening Post on 1 December. «Slaughter Norwegian Fisheries Policy», wrote Dagbladet on 4 December. This is a description of the work carried out by the Committee in this matter. I would therefore like to ask the representative Arnesen whether he realises that the Committee's criticism is not primarily the frame of the current Council of State Ludvigsen, although there is something that indicates that he will meet the same criticism next year, but that this criticism is primarily directed at a large number of fisheries ministers from the representative Arnesen's own party. And then I wonder one more thing: Can the representative Arnesen promise me that he and his party will be an ally in this further work on getting Norwegian fisheries management within a viable framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e347	The working party has always taken these considerations seriously. When these measures were implemented, there was just a workers' party government and a workers' party council that put in place the quota system and put in place restrictions on the withdrawals. I remember the job that former councillor Bolle did in that way, and all the criticism he had to face. So it's like, as I said in my post, that it doesn't always get the way you would have liked it, when it comes to agreements that you have to make with other countries. And I repeat that it must be better to get an agreement in place that, after all, makes us have a management of the resources, against not having an administration in place. How the newspapers must have interpreted what we have said in the setting, I cannot answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e354	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Is it so to understand that Åsa Elvik should have the word for an article? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e357	It's not to finish the time, it's because this is important! I'd like to start by saying that I'm very satisfied with the unanimous comment from the committee. The Committee emphasises the importance of sustainable management as a matter of priority in the quota setting, and points out that this has not been done in the agreements concluded between Norway and Russia in recent years. One cannot go beyond the Committee's view on future agreements: a priority should be given to rebuilding stocks. The Committee also points out that researchers' allowances should be followed up to a greater extent than has been done in the past. One of the perhaps more diplomatic formulations in the Committee's note is the fact that the resource situation in the Barents Sea suggests that the cod management has not been particularly successful. There is no exaggeration. Russian researchers estimate high-recorded spawning stock just before entering into the quota agreement are not a surprise. I am more surprised by the fact that the rental of fish in Norway’s Fish Team is calming down the fact that there is a lot of fish in the sea and waving away all the warnings about the future resource situation. The fact that six-year-olds are tall and fat and many in the number does little to help when the next classes are weak. Research sticks in the Barents Sea this year have our concerns. The researchers will not find codfish. He hasn't been hiding, says the researchers, he's just gone. I have said before that I understand that fishermen, like other professionals, need long-term framework conditions. This was the background for Norway and Russia in the autumn of 2000 to enter into a three-year agreement for Norwegian Arctic cod. During the negotiations of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission this year, it was precisely this long-term agreement that was the most important argument for a choice to set the quota twice as high as the researchers’ recommendations. SV means the big message we have on the table, should have held a professional discussion of the consequences of such a long-term agreement. We are missing in the full evaluation and self-search of this message. It is a sensible practice to consider whether one of them, when they have seen one, assess whether the means of achieving the goal are the right ones, assess whether something could have been done differently. When you read the message, you can get the impression that everything is in the best order, and that there is no reason to change anything. That's what I thought. It's a little constructive. It is possible because I am a result of project-oriented reform 94-pedagogics, that I think so, but I think it is a strange practice not to discuss the relationship between goals and means. We can disagree between ourselves on how the administration actually works, and it is clear that the person who thinks that there are certain things to deal with here needs more evaluation than the one who thinks everything is in the best order. But that's not the point. The point is that, based on democratic considerations, there should still be room for critical review, discussion and self-search in such a message. This fall has been a part of the fishing industry in the public sphere. Much of this has come, of course, because of the discussions around the Council of State, but more importantly, the timing of public debate about resource management and quota fixing. Coastal speakers have protested at the lack of transparency and publicity around government. We are some of these criticisms, and we will continue to work to a greater degree of local co-management in the fisheries management. In this context, it makes sense to ask: If there had been more openness around, more public transparency and more local management of the fisheries management, would the 2001 agreement be different? Of course, it is impossible to know, but I think this is three factors that are necessary to bring the Norwegian fisheries management back to balance. The issues about how we manage our resources are the most important politicians can spend time on. A big message like this is therefore an important document. I would have been crazier today if it had not been for the Riksrevision's alert review of the Norwegian fisheries management. SV welcomes this review, and we look forward to discussing the result of this later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e376	We've got a debate that might seem a little strange, when it's an almost consensual attitude. But when I choose to take the floor in this case, it's because I don't feel very well about the comments that my party and I have made. When you look at the newspaper reactions and reactions of those who call themselves barn-sea experts, who have hardly been in the Barents Sea and much less in the Barents Sea, I have to say that at least for me, I take the self-criticism that one might not have been nuanced enough when it comes to the comments in this case. When we see the reactions in the protest industry, we might wish we had gone into this more closely. Let it be said that it is clear that we should house productively. It's not a bad thing about it. We want to build up the spawning stock, and we want to build it up so that this industry can become the future industry of Norway that all researchers have claimed it has the potential to be, and that conventional fisheries too have their future alongside aquaculture, sea grazing and the industry that is there. But it's clear that here's a bad thing about how this is going to be. I've been talking to a lot of researchers, and everyone I'm talking to says that the claim that these protest industries are making, that we're now entering Canadian states, is a blank lie. That's not correct. It's not that wrong. But we see how such an industry on the outside of this house – today we saw a load of coal outside, I'm well in doubt if they come with cod, but it gets so bad – it feels when an actual attempt is made to make agreements with Russia. I have to say it is strange to believe that local quota setting would be what was going to happen under the principle of democracy – it would be fun, when the Finnish, Northern and South European countries started fighting about the quotas in order to determine them. Those who believe that it would then be a resilient coughing of the cod, I don't think the fishing industry knows well enough. Otherwise, I fully share what the representative Arnesen said when it concerns the marine mammals. It's very important, because it's perhaps those who take the most of the marine resource in the Barents Sea now, and it's important that we take it with us. I asked the Minister for Fisheries a question he didn't have time to answer, but maybe he should have the word a little later. This applies to allowing researchers to board fishing boats. I know there's a problem between the fishermen and the researchers. It is possible that the researchers could be with the fishing boat and go on other drawn lines than right there the research boat «G.O. Sars», which usually goes? Perhaps it would make sense that some fishermen were also carrying the research ships, because they might be able to refer to areas where they think they are fish – it should be enough to call it blue whiskers. Since I started at Stortinget in 1989, there has always been a quarrel about this. The researchers say there is no blue-grass, and the fishermen say there is a lot of blue-grass. And they get a lot of blue claws. I actually think the Russians have such a system. Then I would like to raise another matter. This applies to the negotiations with the EU. In order to further develop fisheries and aquaculture in Norway, it will be important for Norwegian legitimate interests to be taken care of. In this way, Norway is part of the fishing resources in our seas. Since the 200-mile economic zone of the maritime law regime was established at the end of the 1970s, several times the Norwegian fishing interests have become obsolete in favour of other foreign and trade policy priorities. This has resulted in allowances agreements providing Norway with much lower allowances than the stock's zoning. There was reason to be disappointed with the negotiated outcome of the agreement on fishing in the Smuthole. The party of progress was actually the only party that opposed that agreement. In the case of the distribution of the mackerel and the agreement for Norwegian spring herring, there is reason to fear that the Norwegian eagerness to enter into agreements without due consideration for long-term Norwegian fishing interests should also result in a poor agreement for the allocation of cod no this year. There is therefore reason to be critical of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' open reluctance to take the confrontations that are necessary to achieve a better result. There seems to be a fear of confronting the EU. I believe that the EU fisheries management in the essential is based on an entirely unacceptable principle. For a number of key species of fish, marine scientists have demonstrated that EU fishermen are responsible for a discard of fish that repeatedly exceeds the total quota for species. Furthermore, there is evidence of extensive over-fishing and unregistered turnover of key fishing species within the EU. There is also evidence of a lack of follow-up of satellite tracking by the EU, leading to a number of EU vessels in areas where they do not have the right to be present. Against this background, there should be no reason why Norway accepts without resistance the EU frameworks for negotiations on the sharing of important fish stocks. However, I am expecting the review that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Fisheries have announced on these issues. If the future development of the Norwegian fisheries industry is to be maintained, this must also result in a completely different priority from that of the Norwegian authorities when it relates to the fisheries agreements we conclude with other countries. I believe that in order to move in the positions of the different parties, Norway must actually be willing to break negotiations and, if necessary, stand without a fisheries agreement with the EU, especially in the case of coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e397	I have a few brief comments on a unanimous vote showing that the parties clearly stress that much can be done to contribute to a better governance regime than one has recently had. I think that the unanimous vote shows that the committee is of the opinion that these are issues that deserve more attention than they sometimes get. It is primarily the question of international quota negotiations which the Committee has chosen to comment on. These include: on the basis of the Norwegian-Russian negotiations, in particular on the cod quota. The agreement concluded last autumn meant that for the following year, 395000 tonnes may be taken out. It is an allowance far beyond the recommendation of the researchers as a sound extraction of cod resources in the Barents Sea. I think it is important when the Committee says that it believes that the negotiations between Norway and Russia in recent years have not taken sufficient account of the question of sustainable development. It is important that it has been said, and it is important as a starting point for a future debate on what is sustainable in terms of fisheries management. When it is said in a unanimous vote, it really means that both the Right and the Labour Party members choose to criticise their own state councils. The fact is that the criticism affects both parties – both what the previous Minister for Fisheries did and what the current Minister for Fisheries says. The centre batch is of the opinion that more attention is needed on what is a sustainable take-off compared to the different fish species. That is why we are pleased with the unanimous vote. The total quota fixed for cod is an example in this context. It is not difficult to acknowledge that what the researchers have recommended as a total quota would have meant dramatic changes to the industry. But I also think we need to recognise that an off-take of 395 000 tonnes will offer less opportunities for sustainable stock management and thus less opportunities for profitability and value creation in the industry in the longer term. And that's the crucial point of this question. However, the question of sustainability is not only linked to what a negotiator is negotiating in fisheries negotiations with other countries, it is also linked to the national fisheries policy. It is related to quantity but also to fish patterns. The priorities we choose to take in our national fisheries policy in terms of distribution between different groups within the industry, the types of gear that are allowed, and the annual classes of fish that are allowed to be caught will also have a major impact on the overall image of sustainable management. The Committee is also committed to improving control and reporting in order to comply with the regulatory provisions. I want to stress it, because it's in the industry's own interest, both in fact and in relation to reputation. No one has anything to profit from anyone suspected of cheating or illegal acts. I would like to stress that in that context, the Coast Guard should be given more priority than we have done so far. I feel the committee position here today, as a warning to the Minister for Fisheries, also from his own party, that the Stortinget will have a word on how the fish will be managed in the years to come, and on how the industry should develop. It's a signal I hope the Council of State will take seriously. The central party understands that international negotiations should be conducted in a confidential atmosphere, but at the same time we are of the opinion that there is a need for a much more open debate on fisheries policy, including on the issue of quota fixing. I believe that many of us recognise that we are faced with the question of whether we should have a living fishing industry in the years to come, and how it should look between the different fishing groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e418	I have studied the Committee's comments and listened to the debate with great interest, and I am pleased that the Committee contributes to the focus of a very important policy area. It is unproblematic to agree with the Committee that the main principle of future negotiations is to give priority to the restoration of stocks. This has also been the main principle of Norwegian resource management for several decades — under changing governments and during a staggering process, whether there has been a working party, centre party, or the Right State Council of the Ministry of Fisheries. Let me also mention the reconstruction of the herring herring population in Norway, which had collapsed early in the 1970s. Today it is the largest fish stock in the North Atlantic. At the same time, there is mention of the rebuilding of the lotteries in the Barents Sea and the rebuilding of the mackerel stock in the North Atlantic. It shows that targeted management based on sustainability – as we agree on both the Stortinget, the Committee and the Government, and how Norwegian fisheries management has stood and stands for – deliver results. Let me also take the opportunity to explain some of the overall parameters of Norway's conclusion of fisheries agreements with other countries. Because most of our main fish stocks are shared with other countries, one or more, it is not up to Norway alone to set quota levels or to decide on management strategies. We have to deal with this constructively. We must accept that Norway, in negotiations with other actors, whether it is now the EU, Russia or others, can not only take its views into account in any context. The various actors do not necessarily have the same objectives in the exercise of their fisheries policy. Consequently, we will not have the same tax-strategic targets for fish stocks either. Therefore, fisheries negotiations are not just about defining what we can call the ‘real’ quota and agreeing on the ‘real’ distribution, but as much about reconciling different objectives as in each of our countries are also perceived as ‘real’. These ‘truths’ can only be reconciled in a negotiated solution through compromises. In compromises, all parties must give, from time to time, Norway as well. Here it's important to have both a short-term and a long-term perspective. The aim, however, is the same at all times: stocks that we can harvest and stocks that can be taxed and at the same time renewed. When Norway has concluded a quota agreement with Russia for 2001 and 2002 which has set a quota level higher than the recommended limits, it is not contrary to the Committee’s emphasis that in any fisheries policy cooperation Norway has to give priority to sustainable management. Without a fisheries agreement with Russia, which would have been a state without agreement on the quota, small fish fishing in the east of the Barents Sea would have increased. This would have contributed to reduced opportunities to close large small-scale fish areas in the protection zone around Svalbard. It illustrates that in such negotiations it will always be necessary to weigh the desirable against the possible, but one must not let the best be the enemy of the good. I therefore fully agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen, who then correctly stresses the importance of having an agreement, when the option is not an agreement and therefore no administration. Otherwise, I also share the representative Arnesen's view of this with the marine mammals, without going into any further detail here. Let me also endorse Mr Solholm's proposal that researchers should be able to board fishing vessels and thus get research and fishing opportunities that could provide interesting experience, by drawing on the practical insights of fishermen and the scientific insights of researchers. It is a proposal that I would like to follow up and discuss with the implicated parties. Cooperation between Norway and the EU on resource management in the North Sea has developed positively in recent years. Norway and the EU agreed in 1999 on management strategies for bottom fish in the North Sea. These strategies define stock levels and action thresholds as the basis for the determination of quotas and thus help to provide the basis for sustainable management. These strategies have been followed in the subsequent quotas for bottom fish in the North Sea. The situation has been particularly serious – as has been emphasised by several – for cod. For 2001, the quota level for this stock was reduced by 40 pst. As a result of the cod crisis, Norway and the EU have concluded agreements to improve the pattern of taxation in the North Sea. There is an increase in the mesh size of trawls and trawls, permanent closure for industrial trawling of a larger growing area for bottom fish in Norway’s economic zone and stricter rules for fishing gear. With regard to the Committee’s reference to ‘practice by-catch rules’, I believe that it aims at the EU directive on drafts. Norway has, as it is known, such a ban on drafts, and it is true that this remains an unresolved problem in fisheries cooperation between Norway and the EU. From a Norwegian point of view, EU practices are contrary to sensible and sustainable governance, as we Norwegians clearly state in our cooperation forums with the EU. We will continue to do so as long as the EU has this practice. With regard to the management of North Sea herring, I would like to refer to the bilateral herring agreement concluded between Norway and the EU in 1997. This agreement has been an important element for the control of the reception of juveniles. Finally, I would just like to express satisfaction with the attention that has been given to fisheries issues in recent years. It reflects the very important position of the fisheries sector in Norwegian society today, and I hope future debates on such messages as the one we are dealing with today will be a forum in which to get views from the Stortinget. And I'll add that big weight. In this way, the Minister for Fisheries and the Business Committee share common interests, and I am working on the Committee's views in the vote, as well as what has been said in the debate. Finally, let me stress what the rapporteur said that she was convinced that the Ministry of Fisheries was prepared to present the basics of the Committee. I can assure you that the department is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e445	The biggest message we are discussing today is about the quota agreement for 2001, but the issue is the same for the agreement that has been concluded for 2002, and therefore I dare to ask myself a little about it. In 2000, the Norwegian-Arctic cod quota is set at 390000 tonnes. The expected spawning population was 350 000 tonnes. The real spawning stock was 286 000 tonnes. In 2001, the quota is set at 395000 tonnes. The expected spawning stock was 420,000 tonnes. The actual quantity was 272,000 tonnes. In an article in the newspaper Nordlys on 14 November, the Council of State writes about cod stocks and sustainable development, and he writes among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘With a quota of 395 000 tonnes of Norwegian-Arctic cod, both the total stock and the broodstock will grow in the coming year.’ Then I would like to ask the Council of State: why does the Council of State assume that the spawning stock will be 500,000 tonnes in 2003 on the basis of the figures we had in 2000 and 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e457	It is true that the matter we are dealing with today does not concern the agreements that we have just concluded, which we have not begun to practice yet. I will come back and explain the agreements and experiences with them when this case comes up for Stortinget. But I just want to stress briefly, referring to what we've been talking about earlier today, and as several of the representatives have also stressed, the importance of getting an agreement. Norway and Russia agree on a quota for 2002 and, when we have chosen to continue the regime with a predictability of 395 000 tonnes, it is precisely in view of the sustainability, predictability and stability of the industry and of the coast behind that decision. And with a quota of 395 000 tonnes, both the total population and the broodstock will grow in the coming years. At the same time, Norway and Russia have set up a working group of researchers to later propose long-term and sustainable management and will form the basis for the next meetings of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1069]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e480	The President understands that Åsa Elvik has asked for the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e483	In view of the very short time the Committee has had to deal with such an important matter – we have known the matter for 14 days, but it is a matter that has been going on in the system for ten years – I do not feel comfortable having to deal with it this way. I would like to propose that the matter be sent back to the committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e488	Mr Elvik then proposed that the matter be referred back to the Committee. The speakers who are now given the floor are given the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e493	Although one might agree with the criticism that we have had a very short time to deal with this matter, this is therefore a matter that has gone on for many years, and where the Storting has been continuously briefed on developments in the matter. The majority in the committee have found that we could deal with matters in spite of the fact that we have had a short period of time, and will therefore suggest that we do not postpone this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e498	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would say that Protocol 3 has been associated with a lot of uncertainty over a long time. It is now important that the food industry involved be given clear signals. We are pleased that the EEA Committee has now taken a decision. Although Stortinget has had a short time, this is not the first time that Stortinget has had a short time to deal with a matter, and has been treated satisfactorily, so the Progress Party wants the matter settled today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e503	It is true that the process of the negotiations relating to Protocol 3 has been extremely long, but it is also true that the time spent dealing with the matter by Stortinget has been extremely short. It has almost led to a summary discussion within the Committee. There has been a time pressure that has made it very difficult for the Committee to obtain sufficient background material in the examination of the case. The members of the Centre Party will therefore support SV in the wish to return the matter to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e508	Several have not asked for the word of the procedure. After it had been called to vote, said [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e515	We are going to vote on the proposal that Åsa Elvik has raised on behalf of SV, which is about not dealing with case No. 6 today, but to send the matter back to the Committee for further consideration. This proposal is supported by the Centre Party. The other parties have, as the President understands, stated that the matter should be dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e528	Then we are ready to start with the real treatment of case no. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The president says this is not the minimum speaking time, but the maximum speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e544	I shall not use more time than necessary. We are now dealing with one thing with a very long history. The size has been regularly briefed on developments in the negotiations that have been taking place. Even if one may agree with the criticism that the committee and thus the Storting has had a short period of time, and that the statements from the Government have also been in the shortest position, it is right to deal with this matter today, so that the Government can put it before the agreement is negotiated. In all negotiations there is a question of giving and taking, and that is also the case in this case. It is always the case that in a negotiated agreement, it is the things that could benefit us from being different. In reality, however, today we have the choice between adopting the negotiated agreement or rejecting it. The last one, in my view, is a bad option. As already said, this is a matter of a very long history, and it should not be any longer. I would therefore recommend that we accept the negotiated agreement. This is also important in order to ensure a sound framework for the part of the business life that this agreement adopts. We must also bear in mind that the food industry has expressed their satisfaction at the conclusion of an agreement, and I hope that you will be able to end this matter in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e562	Finally, agreement has been reached between the Commission and the Government on tariff reductions for processed agricultural products and some other agricultural products. It is part of an obligation for Norway to abolish the industrial tariff by 2004. The disagreement in the customs question began for approx. 10 years ago, when Norway was negotiating with the EU on the EEA Agreement. The parties did not reach an agreement in the case of processed agricultural products. However, Protocol 2 to the EEA Agreement contains a development clause which requires the parties to reduce customs duties on these products progressively. Negotiations took place last year, when the Swedes rejected a draft new Protocol 3, where Norway would reduce customs duties on processed agricultural products by 3 pst. The Swedes wanted more. The party to the progress shall form part of the majority of the voting rights which are attached to the agreement. We are satisfied that the matter now seems to have been resolved. Reduced customs duties on processed agricultural products are positive for competition and price developments on food in Norway. Therefore, it is an advantage that this matter is closed and can be taken off the agenda between Norway and the EU. Negotiations with the EU pose small challenges compared to the competitive pressure that will be associated with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Internationally, we are all in a trend where commodity prices are falling and cross-border competition is increasing. While the EU countries are gradually opening up to international competition, Norway has maintained its position by protecting the food industry at high rates of customs duty. High rates of duty also allow high prices to be maintained for vegetable products. A reduction in customs duties will lead to a stronger pressure on industry to become more efficient. When the EU reduces its customs duties, it means that agriculture and the food industry in the EU are increasing their competitiveness. This may lead to increased price differences between the EU and Norway in agricultural products, which in the next round will lead to increased Norwegian border trade in Sweden, a frontier trade which is increasing from before. One might be tempted to ask: When the food industry in other countries is streamlined, does our own industry follow up on this in order to be able to cope with competition in the future? Unfortunately, the answer to this is no. Several studies carried out by researchers at the BI and the Central Bureau of Statistics show that the Norwegian food industry has had a particularly low productivity growth, much weaker than has been observed, for example. in Sweden and other important trading partners. This has been the case over a longer period of 20–25 years. Therefore, it is important that this industry knows its visit time. If you don't bet much more, for example. by providing own efficiency and rationalisation plans and getting more for each krona invested, there will be a significant negative impact on the whole value chain in the food sector. That's what's the truth. Yes, it should be directly unacceptable that Norway's second largest industry has a stagnation in productivity over such a long period of time. The reason for this negative trend is not only high customs barriers and low exposure to competition, but both the meat and dairy sectors have been regulated. Marginal studies carried out in the last year of all stages of the food value chain show that large price increases have been achieved by the meat industry in particular. So it is now imperative that farmers take hold of their own industry and provide for extensive rationalization. Nor have politicians encouraged innovation. It is largely only the Progress Party that has made proposals to resolve regulation and that has wanted to open up more competition internally in Norway. When our new Minister of Agriculture is going to design the government's agricultural policy in the time to come, radical changes have to be made. Among other things, there is a need for: new start-ups and competition in order to raise productivity. It is a ‘must’ if agriculture is to survive in the future. The farmer must then have an efficient industry that is capable of competing in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e585	I did not think it was particularly comfortable that the EEA case was driven as quickly and through Stortinget. I realized on the wall ring in the hall, when the Stortinget was called in to voting, that one wanted that train to have gone even faster. I think it's a little nice. The strategy used in relation to EEA matters, I would say, bothers me, whether it is a parliamentary vocabulary. And I don't want to regret the vote that Stortinget was forced to do instead of a postponement of the case. Saka should have been exposed because she is sylt thin — purely physical. There is no explanation of the possible consequences of the Storting approval of Protocol 2 and Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement. The consequences for the Norwegian food industry will be so serious that I appeal to SV representatives to vote against the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e590	The President may confirm that 'torture' to those degrees is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e593	It was good to hear the President's liberality in terms of parliamentary expression. The negotiations on Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement have been ongoing for a long time. With the exception of the performances that came from the Swedish side in 1999, there has been a process that has been relatively calm. It was quite a break when Norway negotiated EU membership in 1994, but it was enough because there were many who thought they had enough to deal with at the time, if one were not to have this kind of negotiations in addition. It has gradually become quite a problem in dealing with EEA matters in Stortinget, that they are being dealt with in a schematic manner and without particularly extensive background material. It also happens in this case. In many questions it may be unproblematic, but there is every reason to warn that a case such as this is being dealt with in the Storting without being properly informed. It's a fact today. The proposition is scarce, but also the time pressure to which the Committee has been subjected has made it difficult to obtain sufficient relevant background material and to carry out some form of consultation with interested parties. This is the case in most cases when a majority in the Chamber considers it impossible to assess the individual additions and amendments to the EEA Agreement on a free basis. When a matter is actually decided in the EEA Committee, one must be prepared to swallow away, and then further consideration in the Norwegian economy will have relatively little value. The centre party does not wish to convert customs duties in that direction Protocol 3 contributes. The aim is to liberalise trade in industrially processed agricultural products. We consider this to be problematic in relation to the extensive food industry we have, which is largely district-based, and which, in line with trade liberalisation, has been and will have to undergo structural changes. These are changes that many in this Chamber are looking at with concern, but which will be inevitable in the direction that the changes we are being invited to debate today are taking. The food market is changing. More and more of the output is being internationalised. The finished food market is changing and increasing. Developments in the industry covered by the RAC scheme show that imports of this type of product have increased sharply only in the last two years. This means that competition in relation to the Norwegian food industry has become stronger. At the same time, we look at the beginning of changes in ownership and group formation that can have a major impact on the food market. The centre party is of the opinion that it is in Norwegian interest to maintain a food industry that retains a large share of the market in Norway. It is important both in relation to industry and to Norwegian agriculture. Presse's commodity prices are falling, Norwegian agriculture in the decentralised phase we know today will never be able to compete with the European countries. We know that, and we also know that such a development will go beyond the smallest uses and rural agriculture. The centre party sees Protocol 3 of the EEA Agreement as an instrument in the changes we are now seeing in the food market. We are concerned about the dynamics of the agreement. The Protocol has a clause in Section 2 which involves an annual revision of customs duties. Some might say that there is only one question of technology, but we see that similar clauses in the EEA Agreement have always been used to lead the agreement a step further towards liberalisation. I don't think we're going to expect any exception to this provision, even though the majority will probably assure us otherwise. When the majority today adopts Protocol 3, the Centre Party will underline the importance of maintaining price write-downs in the RAC scheme. The central party considers that a decisive emphasis must be placed on balancing the agreement over the years to come. If not, a pronounced district-based business could lose a lot. This protocol must be viewed as one piece of a much larger issue, which is about how to maintain production and employment in important district industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e614	The Government requests the consent of the Storting to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee amending Protocols 2 and 3 to the EEA Agreement on processed agricultural products and other agricultural products. I note that in its position the number of committees endorses the Government's proposal to amend Protocols 2 and 3 to the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that this part of the EEA Agreement is finally in place from 1 January 2002 and that the lengthy negotiations with the EU on these issues have now come to an end. The main objective of Protocol 3 is to compensate for differences in costs for producers of processed agricultural products due to different price levels of agricultural raw materials in the EEA territory. These are goods with free trade status. In practice, balancing means applying customs duties and export aid to compensate for differences in prices of agricultural raw materials contained in the finished products. Price-balancing is a very central element of the agricultural policy instrument system, both to ensure a level playing field for industry and at the same time to ensure the disposal of agricultural raw materials. This industry is a significant decrease in agricultural raw materials. The current trade regime for processed agricultural products is regulated by Protocol 2 to the Free Trade Agreement between Norway and the EU of 1973. In relation to today’s regime, Protocol 3 will involve a general cut in customs duties towards Norway and into the EU of 3 pst. For some products, the reduction in customs duties is greater than the general 3 pst. cut. For parts of the food industry, this could result in increased competition on the domestic market. At the same time, the possibility of Norwegian exports to the Union market will be improved for some products. For the Norwegian food industry, independently of Protocol 3, there is a clear challenge to strengthen its position both on the domestic market and on the export market. I would like to stress that in the negotiations on Protocol 3 there has been close contact between the authorities and the organisations of the food industry, the agricultural organisations and also individual enterprises, where a continuous assessment of the EU's requirements has been made in relation to the interests of industry. The organisations have stated that it is positive that the Protocol 3 Agreement has been put in place and that it contributes to ensuring long-term and stable framework conditions in relation to trade with the EU. The bodies of the adult population have also been continuously oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e632	The rates of duty in Protocol 3 are based on historical differences in commodity prices. What we see now is that the differences in commodity prices between other countries and Norway will increase, and there will be increased challenges for the Norwegian food industry. I remember that when we dealt with the EEA Agreement some years ago, it was given 900 million. to this industry, in order to rationalise and streamline. Despite this, all the studies show that it has been the status quo, and that is very worrying. In addition, this sector is subject to regulatory review, including: Competition supervision says that all the regulatory arrangements and the detailed regulation in this sector help to push prices up. How will the Council of States contribute so that the impact of Protocol 3 and the increased competition we see in the food sector will not be more negative than is necessary for the Norwegian food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e641	In the areas we are now talking about, it is not always as right to be too general, because the different commodity prices – including in the relationship between Norwegian commodity prices and commodity prices in different countries – probably have a very different trajectory. Although the main trend is still a significant price difference, we also have commodity price ranges in Norway that have a cost page that is quite close to the same cost page that we can see in some countries around us. This applies not least to coarser vegetables, etc. As for the issue of the significant investment grant that was granted in the mid-1990s, just before the referendum about – I think to remember that I was on the Finance Committee at that time, in other words, together with the President, I think it was the fall of 1994 that we dealt with this matter at great speed – I hear the industry today telling me that the 900 million. kr was absolutely essential for large parts of this industry to be able to meet the challenges such as: Protocol 3 represents. For example, prior, which is now in a very good development in chicken products for the Norwegian market, placed a decisive emphasis on what the 900 million. In 1994, the potential for good development now represented and growing, which in the near future will provide new jobs, seems to be, among other things. Hedstrom's Home Counties We also see it within other parts of this industry that are now in a phase where they take the load and rationalize very much. The agricultural part of the industry is laying down plants, with the pressures it always causes, in order to achieve more rational production. And I both hope and believe that this could produce effects in the future in even more cost-effective production of processed agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e648	I don't want to help prolong the debate, but I still have a question to ask the Council of State. This concerns the issue of how the RAC scheme will look in the future. The Council of State referred to the RAC scheme as important in its article. The current changes include one of the instruments of the RAC scheme, namely customs duties. Then there is another instrument in the RAC scheme that goes on a price write-down related to domestic raw materials. If one is to have an opportunity to participate in the future, it is important that the price write-down scheme remains unchanged. Can the Council of State assure us that this will be the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e656	It is right that the RAC scheme is absolutely central to the provision of a Norwegian food industry, as it has been in the past, and as it must be in the future. The RAC scheme means the commodity price compensation scheme, which means that any industry in Norway or in other countries will be allowed to start on the same starting line in purchasing their own country’s agricultural products. This industry should not be penalised by the agricultural policy that it has had to bear. These are the principles of the RAC scheme, and it is absolutely essential to take care of a food industry that is increasingly, in itself completely independent of the issue we are dealing with today, experiencing increased competition. Not least, our consumption pattern is such that we are increasingly using processed and even more processed agricultural products, and to a lesser extent buy agricultural products directly and process them at home. That is why we still experience new areas of competition. And quite centrally and decisively, as the representative here said, is price depreciation, so that Norwegian industry gets an entry price in its production that makes them not having a disadvantage. That they will have competition on other cost elements in industry, we will probably always have to live with, as in all other Norwegian industries – wages, other costs, tax systems and all of this. But it is probably a type of competition that this industry too increasingly has to endure. It probably also makes it possible that other factors such as those mentioned in this case will be less industrial protection for the part of competition that is about entirely normal industrial inputs, regardless of the raw material prices of agriculture. But price depreciation is absolutely central, and will be so in the future. And of course, the government will work for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e661	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1069]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e679	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e688	I really didn't intend to take the word for this change proposition, because it's a unanimous setting. But after we had a little discussion about the matter in the committee, I would like to make a few comments on the relationship between the ordinary budgetary procedure and the content of the amendment proposal. The Committee notes that the Oslo Police District has extraordinary expenses due to the wedding of the Crown Princess Couple and the Nobel Peace Prize distribution this year. This, of course, requires additional appropriations. The Committee also points out that expenditure is capped. 466 Lawyers’ expenditure is regular and is influenced by the number of cases. The appropriations for the chapter were proposed to be increased by 148 million. kr, and the Committee is pleased that the Ministry has started work on the reasons for the high consumption. The Committee has also noted that Chapter. 470 Free legal aid was proposed increased by a total of 68 million. kr, and that the increase was due to an increase in the number of non-needed-tested cases for the county council members and an increase in the number of cases under the Free Council. As a completely fresh representative of gross domestic product, the first budgetary procedure in Stortinget is a rather special experience. Over several weeks, it has been a demanding and intense work for the Committee, in which we have all tried to shift money and make priorities that we have felt are strengthening the budget, while at the same time being aware that we should be able to accept the whole. I feel that through this process we got results, and although there were small amounts we moved on, I am sure that it will be of great importance. Among other things, it was a big victory for me when we got an increase of 3 million. to the Council of Conflict. I was therefore very surprised when we were presented with this change proposal, because there is a completely different amount. The change is actually a total of 350 million. kr, and it's a little bit different from what we were doing in our Committee's budgetary procedure. Of course, I have a great deal of understanding that it is difficult to estimate the exact cost of the regulated items, and that it has to be taken into account, among other things. VAT reform takes place this year. But I have to point out, on behalf of the Committee, that there is an unfortunate imbalance between the amounts that we are able to move on during the ordinary budgetary procedure and the amounts that are moved on in the amendment proposal. Major redispatches and additions at the end of the year are a problem. There is a great deal of attention to the general budgetary procedure for each harvest, and I therefore believe that we must also be concerned about how the budget actually is towards the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e707	I started by joining the case rapporteur, as I thought he was very good at the matter. I have to be allowed to express a great deal of frustration over what we are now going to do. It's correct, as it's described, that some of these amounts come as a matter of course because there are conditions there that are tied up and that get financial results. But here it's about moving hundreds of millions back and forth, and then it's going to be a paradox for me when we in the Justice Committee are fighting to move 23 million. So one tenth of what we're moving here. Then of course you can say that we have no choice, because that's the way it is. But it seems, at least for my part, like a paradox. You can wonder if the real power is here or in the department. There's something you might have to let hang in the air, but the fact is, it's supposed to be in the Storting. And it might do that when it's like we're going to make the decision, based on what the ministry has done. But that at least for my part there is a frustration associated with this, it is absolutely certain!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e716	I will not comment on what has been said. I would like to say this in the following way: the Storting has a general budgetary procedure, with a total budget of between 600 and 700 billion kroner. Once those frameworks have been established, the justice sector has a framework of approx. NOK 11 billion. It is established by the Framework Decision in accordance with the Financial Regulation. Of course, it defines the game space in many ways. When we get to the ejaculation, we are in the situation that if you look at this ejaculation that this council has inherited, but I'm not going to try to take responsibility for others, you can see that there are regulatory arrangements. And then there's legal expenses, something happens on September 11th, something happens to the police -- all of this obviously means there's a lot of numbers. I can therefore understand that if you see the numbers that way, the experience will be strong, as some representatives have said. But if you look at the processes at the back, I guess you can take them with you. In general, of course, I fully agree with the basic view that when you deal with a budget, you have to go in order for the budget to be good. I think maybe over a new year, you might experience that there might be individual things that you have to deal with that way. But it's my experience, having had a certain speed in this house, that the budgetary reform we've been given has been disciplining. But it is clear that this discipline also tightens up the scope of the trade unions. Very much of the game of gambling is often happening in advance, and I have to admit that it was a pretty strong experience for me at the time it went up for me. I now needed to express some sympathy, but at the same time also give some explanation and comment on what is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e730	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1069]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e746	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 5 minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e753	This is a matter that has been up in Stortinget many times, from 1994 onwards. But this time it has a new twist. The case has always been to provide guarantees from the state, while now there is a partial result of a long and good job. Now there is a settlement that can still give the residents the means to pursue the case further in relation to the parties that are not in the agreement, while the State again provides a new, comprehensive guarantee. It would not have been possible to reveal the circumstances around the year foreign assets without the state's involvement in the matter. The majority of the Committee is concerned with the general preventive effect it has on the willingness and ability of the State to follow up comprehensive and complex issues of the avoidance of public funds. In particular, this is important at a time of increased opportunities for international financial transactions and increased international cooperation to counter the black economy. I am particularly pleased that the Right now has turned around in the matter, and in that way any doubt that there is now a large majority here in the UK who are convinced that it is right to pursue this matter further. I am amazed at the Progress Party which likes to appear to be the party that looks most seriously at any crime, at least in the case of ordinary people. But in this case of a wealthy man's disposition and the avoidance of funds to the public, the Progress Party will not combat this kind of crime. In my opinion, it is clear here that this party is probably not for the fair treatment of people – here is the status as a counter. Not even in these times, and when the laborious work begins to produce results, the Party of Advancement turns around. They clearly still believe that a man is wealthy, it is good to avoid funds from the public. The majority of the Committee supports the Government's assessments in the case and recommends that the Storting approve the guarantee statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e768	Already 50 years ago, Norwegian authorities started investigations into an illegal annual wealth abroad. In the early 1970s, Sandefjord received 40 million. kr for the construction of a new town hall from the Continental Trust, which later turned out to be part of the many bones of the years empire. Eight years after the end of the year, Anders Jahr Jahr's estate will be replicated with 780 million. kr, and the board of directors at the same time claim that Anders Jahre has a considerable foreign wealth, now belonging to the estate. This is the start of a year-long process to obtain approximately NOK 1.5 billion. The estate is suing 82 people in the United Kingdom to obtain these funds. In addition, he himself is sued for, among other things. on the Cayman Islands. Already in 1994 it had to have a State guarantee of 100 million. kr in order to go further in the process of getting hold of the significant annual wealth abroad. This was supported on the right by: In particular, the aim was to combat all international economic crime2. The probability that the estate would succeed in recovering the years- wealth was greater than that it would not be recovered Thus, the state would have fully covered its guarantees. That was the situation in the autumn of 1994. In the years that followed, we experienced legal cases and settlement attempts, lost legal cases and failed settlement attempts, high legal fees and high costs. At all events, this case, which was necessary for crime prevention purposes to be implemented with state guarantees, proved to be very difficult and extremely extensive. Norwegian justice practiced in Norway was not considered sufficient in the cases conducted both in Cayman Islands and in the United Kingdom. When lived in the autumn of 1997, further appropriations were to continue the struggle to recover the wealth of the years, the optimism we experienced in 1994 was now turned into pessimism. The right was sceptical about further guarantees in the State budget for 2000, not because the Right did not want to combat international financial crime, but because the Right considered the possibility of getting funds back that exceeded the amount of housing. The only ones who would probably profit from this were Norwegian and foreign lawyers. Right-wing scepticism at the time has been shown to be a proper analysis. It is not the legal cases that have borne fruit, but the settlement negotiations that have been conducted. Today, Stortinget is in front of the possibility to recover around 370 million. kr, if the agreement is approved by all parties. The right-hand side of course supports this. There must never be any doubt that the Right sees with great satisfaction that the property has succeeded in recovering a significant amount of money. This gives the residents the opportunity to pursue further proceedings against those parties that do not want a settlement, i.e. Compass Trust and Aall Foundation. Right-wing vision and observations have not impaired the accommodation position, as some claim. The outcome of today's negotiations shows that endless legal proceedings are not preferable to conciliation. In return for Lazard Bank and Lord Kindersley transferring 41.5 million. the dollar of the stay, and not least access to the records held by those parties, provides the Storting with a guarantee that those parties are kept harmless in the event of future prosecutions by implicated parties. Therefore, further efforts to recover additional funds are being made to the right. Today's majority in the UK want to fight financial crime with considerable resources and with great stamina.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e796	The President will inform you that the so-called alternate of the Troms County, Leif Christian Johansen, has now taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e799	Initially, I want to say that it sounds like we're talking about two different things here. For the Progress Party, this is a partial settlement, with a significant risk. For the rest, it sounds as if Christmas Eve has come to this house, but it has certainly not done so in the proposal for partial settlement that is here. And then I have to say, I'm fascinated by the attack of the case rapporteur on the Progress Party. If there is someone who lacks credibility in justice and criminal policy, it must certainly be the Workers' Party. I think a lot of people can confirm that when we look at everyday crime and other crime here to land. So the tab that the Workers' Party is flagging here, I think they should be four a lot further down on the flag pole. So when it comes to what's actually the matter here, there's a partial deal, with big, possible challenges for the Norwegian state financially, and then it's not so easy to say yes to this, all of a sudden. If this had been a final result, one could have drawn that conclusion, then the Progress Party would have also accepted it, because the situation is now, it is likely to be able to introduce net approximately. 200 million. kr to the State and lived. It would have been perfectly fine for our part as well. But – then there is a big one but here, and that's what the risk is that the state has to deal with, and that's what makes us not willing to accept the proposal that exists. If it hadn't been here, we should have also accepted it. Then, among other things, I read in today's Business that we get the honor of SV because things have become as they have, and that the reconciliation is so bad. It has to do with SV's own part. I am reasonably sure that SV cannot prove in any way that there is a link between contact in the Progress Party and people who are involved, and that it has affected the outcome and the positions the Progress Party has held in this matter. There's not one piece of evidence for anything like that. But of course the SV can say that. Another thing that SV is concerned about is that you reveal your cards and give the property manager less cards when he is negotiating, when the lot is against this. Yes, then my question will be returned to SV: What about what is happening now? Isn't that exactly the same thing that SV does about fronting out the internal disagreement that is in this house, so don't you also look up the cards to those who are going to continue the negotiations? At least that's my clear view of it. That is why the Progress Party will stand on what we have done, we will continue to say no, and this is simply about the uncertainty that lies in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e812	In this debate, SV would point out that there was, in fact, an agreement with all parties, which would be far preferable to a settlement with just two of the parties. SV is surprised at the weight the financial position of the dwelling has been added to the assessment of the settlement. We believe that the agreement should have been evaluated solely for legal, practical and tactical reasons. We find that several of the country's counterparts have actively tried to handle this matter. They have done this in the hope that the majority of the Stortinget would eventually not continue to provide Anders Jahr's estate with enough funds to bring the matter to an end. The party of progress has thus given them blood on their teeth, by actively opposing further administration to the care of the year-on-year matter. According to Dagens Næringsliv, the then prominent party representative, Jan Simonsen, was contacted by Geelmuyden in 1996.Kiese, probably on behalf of the estate's opponents. This confirms Simonsen himself. Since then, Simonsen and his former party have consistently voted against appropriations for residence. In 1999 he also got right. The right-wing members justified their turnaround operation in the same way as the Progress Party all the time justified its position in this case: they considered the possibility of getting back sums of money in excess of the amounts spent on legal proceedings, as small, and that most of the funds allocated would go to holding Norwegian lawyers with work and income. Even the KrFs have expressed through the media that they have been skeptical for further appropriations. In other words, there have been fairly good reasons for the counterparties of the dwelling to make use of the withdrawal procedure. It is surprising that parties on Stortinget, in a case where the state has great interests, choose to deal almost exclusively with the argument from the counterparty in the case. The Socialist Left Party is not aware that there has been similar close contact between the residence and the applicable lots, as there have been between the counterparties of the residence and the same lots. This is very worrying since the aim here has been to clarify one of Norway’s most well-known tax evasions. Furthermore, SV believes it is interesting that Anders Jahr dødsbo had his legal breakthrough only two days after the Justice Committee promoted its suspension in autumn 1999, and that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party voted against further appropriations for the residence. You might wonder what kind of assessments you took into account when you thought of the chances of getting some way as small. SV believes it is a pity that not all parties have made themselves clear and clear in a line where it is clear that they do not accept such gross economic crime, but will pursue the issues of the bitter end, as the then Left-Representative, Terje Johansen, last year expressed it to Today's Business. And I have to say that it seems strange that for years the Progress Party, which likes to call itself law and order-party over something, has opposed itself to helping to recover funds that have been evicted by the Norwegian people through gross economic crime. I'm tempted to claim that their justice policy is not in the loop when, at one moment, you have almost unlimited resources to the police and countymen's seat to solve the crime, and next time you don't have a single penny to pursue this kind of white-collar crime, and thus set an example. So instead, the party has put in its power to make the counterparts of the estate happy. For SV, this is completely incomprehensible, but we only have to acknowledge that the counterparties have won in many ways: they have achieved their hope that the resistance to further appropriations would increase, and they have gained through hard lobbyism for the following perception in some parts of the political environment: that the residence has very little chance of getting money back in excess of the amounts spent on legal proceedings. SV accepts the recommendation for a partial settlement, but we would have wanted a different situation. We would like the bourgeois parties' willingness to resolve tax fraud to be greater, and we would like the residence to be free to assess the facts of the case. There should be no doubt that SV would have been set up for further appropriations for the work of the house if the Ministry of Justice and the Board of Directors had recommended this rather than a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e832	The President pointed out that it was adopted at the beginning of this case that there would be no access to replies. The speakers who want to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e835	It surprises me that SV uses this opportunity to put named parties in a strange light by presenting something that has been heard, and uses it as a witness of truth to draw conclusions – and concludes that other parties do not have a patent position on financial crime, or a willingness to reveal tax fraud. I would strongly like to reject the fact that under some circumstances it should be said that someone has driven lobbyism, for example. to the Christian People's Party. I have even been in the Committee and working on these matters during the previous four-year period, and there has never been anyone who has been doing lobbying in relation to the Christian People's Party at this point. But it doesn't prevent you from using your head yourself. When you are going to grant money, you must use a certain amount of discretion in relation to what money is allocated to you, what it is that you have in sight to achieve through these appropriations and what kind of feedback you get from the funds used by the appropriations that have been allocated in the past – that is, what you have in view of achieving with the appropriations or guarantees that you want to receive for the coming period. It must be right that you get the opportunity to think for yourself without being told that you haven't made it clear, there are others who have forced a position. Having said that, I would like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, it is obvious that we do not accept gross economic crime, rather a less serious form of economic crime. We do not accept any form of economic crime, and we are most interested in being involved in revealing tax evasion. That is why our position has also come, in the light of the assessments we have made, and we say that we are not at this point now that we do not want to give money to continue working in the area that we are dealing with today. On the contrary. In the light of the information we have received, the Christian People's Party has said that yes, we go for appropriations, we go for guarantees, because we see that we are on the way to a result that we believe can be very favorable. None of us – not SV, not Christian People’s Party and not any other parties – know what will be the final result. We have to base ourselves on a judgement, on an assessment of the information available, and then we make a decision based on it. That's why I think it's a rather poor level of precision when the Socialist Left in its comment on this position refers to'representatives of the Christian People's Party through the media'. That is something I do not accept as a guarantee of truth for the conclusion that SV wants to draw. We'll still be there to make sure that this work goes its way. We agree with the recommendations that have been made. There are many questions we can ask, but both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Directors recommend that we go for the solution that lies on the table, and that Christian People's Party will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e848	Since the mid-1990s, the Ministry of Justice has financed the pursuit of Anders Jahre's foreign assets. I am pleased that the property manager has succeeded in negotiating a settlement that will ensure the continued operation of the property without further support from the Ministry of Justice. I am also pleased that the Judicial Committee has almost unanimously agreed that the State should provide the guarantee that the settlement requires. The settlement covers only one of the three foreign groupings with which the residence has conducted settlement negotiations. Of course, a settlement with all three with a correspondingly larger settlement would have been a better solution for the estate and for the state. However, it was not possible to achieve such a so-called global settlement. I would like to stress that the agreement with Lazard Bank implies that the bank will pay a slightly larger amount than the bank would probably have had to pay as its share of a total settlement. There is therefore no bad settlement that the landlord has achieved. The guarantee to be given by the State to Lazard, which is the real issue here, will only take effect if the agreement is implemented. Legal recognition of the settlement by the transferee remains. Sandefjord shunting rights approved the agreement on 13 November 2001. The deadline for making love expires tomorrow. Furthermore, the company Anders Jahre AS, which was controlled by Eikland AS, had a claim in the amount of NOK 375 444. On the basis of this requirement, Anders Jahre AS requested that the estate be taken in bankruptcy. In order to avoid this, the Ministry of Justice has complied with the claim with interest from Anders Jahre's death in 1982. It appears that the counterparty has today returned the amount to the Ministry of Justice's account of use, but in the opinion of the attorney general, the counterparty is obliged to make such an intervention payment. The request for bankruptcy shall be dealt with by the shunting court tomorrow. I stress that if the partial agreement against presumption were to lapse as a result of any of these circumstances, the State guarantee would not be effective. Therefore, there is no danger of issuing the guarantee until these conditions are finally clarified. On the other hand, the settlement agreement with Lazard requires the Ministry of Justice to provide the guarantee by 21 December 2001. In addition, the guarantee will be given to the governor, who will first hand it over to Lazard once all relevant conditions have been resolved. With regard to the general aspects of this case, there are several representatives who have pointed out them, and they can well be summarised as follows: It is important in the pursuit of this kind of money to be persistent, it is important to be able to act with some overall strength, and it is a point that those who are trying to hide money in this way must know that legal states are not giving up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e859	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e863	SV’s claims that the Right’s sceptical attitude to further guarantees of treatment last year or in the past should have influenced the counterparty of the estate to pursue a legal policy of extraction fall on its own unfairness. The aim of the right is (1) to combat international economic crime in the same way as the Socialist Left Party and (2) to recover the rightful claim of the residence, which was SEK 1.5 billion. However, it is not that the Norwegian State alone determines what is right or not, but actually foreign courts. Therefore, throughout the whole case, the Right considered the possibilities of achieving the housing claim of NOK 1.5 billion, up to the cost of doing so. On the right, as SV argues, it does not consider that the Norwegian State has a bottomless stock of cash, but that at the same time we also assess the likelihood and possibilities of recovering the claims of the dwelling. In fact, I would say that after Storting's decision last year on additional guarantees for the 50 million stay. kr, where just the right had a critical remark, has now lived really in a real settlement position for the first time since the matter was raised. The agreement is, by all likelihood, adopted here today against the votes of the Progress Party. Right-wing votes for, because this gives the estate 1) the means to repay the use of the State guarantees, and 2) the means — and through the archives of Lazard Bank — to independently pursue the claim against those parties that have not agreed to the agreement. SV should go on its own and actually be satisfied that the Right agrees with the majority for a settlement of NOK 370 million. Anything else would be counterproductive. It is SV with its comment against the Right that casts doubt on Right's earlier motives, and not the Right's actual vote in this matter. The right has always been critical of the use of money for endless lawsuits without results other than the feeding of money to expensive lawyers. Of course, the right does not say no to recover 370 million. kr to the dwelling. I would like to remind you that it is not the legal cases that have borne fruit, but actually the settlement negotiations. It must be allowed to be critical of the use of State guarantees as long as they do not give the expected result. Or is it that SV without scruples will use all the necessary means in their struggle to recover the property's legal means, regardless of the possibility of recovering the funds? In my opinion, only SV's comment creates unnecessary confusion in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e880	First, I want to point out that I think SV in its first post went a long way in insinuating a connection – or a corruption – between the visit by the representative Jan Simonsen received, and his position on the matter. At least it takes me a distance from it. The representative Simonsen has confirmed that there has been contact, but he has not suggested or said anything about it having affected him in his position in this matter. And I want to distance myself from such an insinuation from SV. Back to the matter itself. I have another experience that we're talking about two different things. It's not like what we're doing today is deciding on a net of 200 million. kr, as it may look like. What we're looking at is how much risk the Norwegian state carries by entering into this agreement. And there's no one here in this room who has convinced me that you're necessarily going out here with a net plus result, until there's too many and big actors outside who are looking to get into the goal. And then we get this debate on the Progress Party that is so concerned about crime. Yeah, that's exactly what's our point. Is there any sense in investing in an endless legal case where the government might spend net expenditure, as opposed to net income? And with the appropriations we see that the justice sector gets, maybe more people in this room should be a little busy with what's happening in this country -- it's probably as important as running endless lawsuits with results that at least none of us here are able to predict. It's a paradox for me when SV flag this so loud. What is a fact is that, in the setting of the budget for the justice sector, SV actually aged for 6.5 million. kr. And if it is to make visible the front SV has had against the Anders Jahre case, I think it becomes a paradox and a little strange in the context of how high SV has gone on the track here. But at the same time, on behalf of the Advancement Party, I should not be larger than that if it ever turns out that we were wrong, we should also have our backs to accept it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e893	This is a strange debate, I think, because I'm not so very concerned with what parties claim to be concerned about – and that all criticism falls on their own unfairness because they say you're concerned about something – but I'm more concerned about what parties actually do. But of course, I also have to praise Right because they turned around in this case and came to the sense when it became clear that it was actually wise to go further and not do as the Progress Party wanted, to end already in 1996. Because that's what's happened; we've now made a partial deal, which we think is worse than a total deal, but that means that it's useful. And I have to be allowed to ask the Right, if they have the opportunity to answer it now: what was it that made them consider it right to go towards further administration to the residence in 1999, when you got a breakthrough just two days later? For SV, it is not just a matter of assessing expenditure against income in such a kind of case that is of such a principle nature. For us, it is important the general preventive effect it will have that the state says to pursue such matters to the bitter end, as a left-wing representative said last year. I must also say to those who have been up and complained that SV almost ‘out-er’ parties and tell them what they think in these matters, and that it hurts the further processing, that it then has a perfectly clear sail. They have the 'out' all the way. It is not a secret that they have meant what they have meant! I do not fully understand this argument, but I hope that at the next crossroads – if you get things of a similar nature – you choose to pursue the case and not ‘feeling out’ as early as the Progress Party would.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e906	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1070]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e914	Then we should be ready for voting. The President makes it clear that there are many things that need to be weighed over, so it can be relatively long, but together we're going to get through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e921	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on behalf of the Workers' Party.Proposal No 2, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 7-11, by Heidi Sørensen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 6, by Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, from Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The President shall try to explain the explanations of vote obtained during the debate. We will take that gradually under the individual proposals. It is first voted on the framework-independent minority proposals. Proposals Nos. 7-10, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in connection with the next tendering period for the purchase of route services on the regional route network to provide a price reduction of 30 pst.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Rv 7 over Hardangervida is closed for winter traffic’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the follow-up to the Trondheim package, including an overall assessment of the appropriateness of the North Sea route, given the increased requirements on air quality and the possibility of increased transition from car to public transport.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the follow-up to the Bergenspakket and an overall assessment of the appropriateness of the four-field road on the Hop-Fjøsanger route, given the increased air quality requirements, and the possibility of increased transition from the car to the planned urban runway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e974	As regards proposal No: 11, from the Socialist Left Party, the President has understood that it has been proposed to be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Spring Spring Storting with an investment plan for railway investments that is in line with the level of ambition of the national transport plan.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We shall then vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that, in principle, high-speed bands are accessible to all the municipalities of the country by the end of 2005 with a proposal for enabling and implementing such development, in its own communication, by 2002 at the latest, with a proposal for solutions to make the core network of a national infrastructure, so that the network is made available to all on an equal basis, in its own communication, by 2002.’» I understand that the Coastal Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e1004	We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of how increased public purchases of rail passenger transport services could lead to increased traffic from road to rail.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an overall assessment of the road projects that can help to weaken or strengthen the potential to meet the new air quality requirements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e1026	A vote shall then be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 18. There are three different proposals here. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e2495	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e3955	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e6893	It is then voted on the proposal for a decision which is independent of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e6923	Here the President has been informed that the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e6986	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have the vote, and the President then assumes that the other parties want to vote against, with the exception of V, where the Coastal Party has stated that they want to support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e7257	The progress party has announced that they want to vote against this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e7275	The Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they want to vote against this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e7336	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e7882	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-13-2.ana.ud388e7901	There is no record.
