ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e43	It was with sorrow and resentment that we received the message that former Wraith representative Engly Lie from Vennesla died, 82 years old. Lie represented the Workers' Party for West Agder for 12 years, from 1973 to 1985. Lie was born in Friendsla, where he grew up. As an 18-year-old, he began working as a carpenter, a profession that led him to be a surveyor in the early 1950s. He made himself a skilled spokesperson for the Workers' Party early on, and eventually got a number of trustees both in the County Party, in the trade movement and later in national politics. Already in 1945 he received his first municipal committee office, and in 1952 he was elected to the municipal board of Vennesla, where he was a member until 1973, for the last 14 years as Vennesla's rapporteur. He was also a member of the county for 14 years from 1960, and all local political work was combined with being active. In his three periods as a representative here at Stortinget, Lie was at his own request a member of the Committee on Transport, and that was especially aviation issues he worked on. He was central to the planning of the new main aerodrome. But also traffic issues in the two Agder-states had his attention, and he was among others. a hot spokesperson to ensure that more of the freight traffic had to be moved from road to rail and boat. Lie also personally followed up the decisions that were made, with constant rides around in the two Agder counties to follow the construction of new road sections. Lie also engaged in the retirement life, both in the Workers' Party and in the Pensioner's Association in Vennesla. ‘It is important to be active and have a real hobby’ was his motto. Engly Lie was not a person who was known to draw great attention around his own person. Those who got to know Lie characterized him as the good man from Friendsla who was always far more concerned with others than by himself. He was knowledgeable and worked extensively on issues within his area, both nationally and locally. He was known for his very good mood and his good cooperation skills. He was alone, open and accessible and very hospitable. It's in deep respect that we bring peace to Engly Lie's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e69	It may be difficult from time to time to remember to turn off the mobile phone a mobile phone had called during the memory speech. before you go into the hall. The president just wants to stress that it might be a good idea to make it a routine that we put it away before we go in, so we don't risk it ringing in the hall. The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad shall apply for sick leave from 22 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e92	Rigmor Andersen Eide is present and will take the seat. The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e97	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Jorunn Ringstad, Inger S. Enger and myself, to propose a review of the law on concession power.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e102	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e105	On behalf of the representatives of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Ola D. Glötvold and myself, I am going to make proposals for final settlement between the state and county municipalities as a result of the state's acquisition of hospitals etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e124	The events in the United States of America on 11 September and the subsequent spread of anthrax bacteria have a world-wide emphasis on what terrorists, whatever their background and where they come from, can accomplish against innocent, civilian goals. Although health care in Norway must be good, the government of Stoltenberg nevertheless saw the need to investigate the strengthening of preparedness for ABC weapons in the light of these events and the threat of possible attacks on Norway in this area. The strategic measures that the government saw necessary have been based on the results and assessments that have been made in recent years. Increases are due both to the purchase and distribution of equipment and medicines and to the promotion of competences. There was a full agreement in the Social Committee that it was right to deal with this as a matter of urgency. The proposal to increase item 01 in cap. 797 with 62 million. is therefore recommended by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e133	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e153	The current interpellation is not an attempt by me to challenge the fixed medical system, although it could have been tempting when the Right, who was also opposed to the scheme, is now in position. But it is well the political positions in the opposition and position of most of the parties here in the house are relatively very different. A political party can live with a defeat in Stortinget. Far worse it is for our patients around the municipalities who have imposed an unnecessary fixed medical system. It's expensive and bureaucratic for the users. Patients have lost their previous right to choose a doctor, and they have also lost their right to reimbursement from the public's right to medical consultation. Many patients have also lost the permanent doctor they may have had for decades. But I also believe that the availability has not improved. This means that the waiting time for consultations has not been shorter, and that the emergency aid in the daytime has not improved at all. The present interpellation is an attempt by the Progress Party to correct, if possible, the main disadvantages of the fixed medical system that have now been revealed after a few months of practice. There are four aspects of the fixed medical system that I believe should be changed in order to better protect the interests of users and patients in this system. Firstly, it is the obligation of referral, where the legislation of the fixed medical system obliges patients to obtain referral to a specialist from their permanent staff. It is also clear from the legislation that referral is only permitted once a year for the same disorder, despite the fact that many patients have been in the specialist for control for a long time, perhaps up to several times a year, as this has been necessary for medical reasons. From a professional medical point of view, I believe this is very unfortunate, and the scheme is very bureaucratic and also expensive for the individual patient. So you have to order an hour from your permanent staff exclusively to get a reference to a specialist at a cost of about every time. 160 for the patient. After receiving the referral, you may have to wait for weeks and months at an hour with the specialist to whom you are referred. Another drawback of this referral practice is the distinction between public outpatient clinics and private specialists. This is discrimination and an abuse of the competence and working capacity of contract specialists, and I cannot ignore the fact that the Department and the majority of the Stortinge have simply speculated in saving money, because it is known that patients today are reasonably upright in relation to their suffering and in any case will visit their specialist without going the way of referral. Specialists who, for their part, treat and control patients without referral will also reduce their reimbursement from the Rikstrøgdeverket, and will subsequently show less and less interest in receiving patients for investigation without referral, which in turn may lead to poor exploitation of the work capacity and opportunities of private specialists. The restrictive scope for referral contained in the fixed medical system underlines the earlier claim made by the Progress Party that the gatekeeper function of the fixed doctors may have been one of the main reasons for introducing the scheme, namely to reduce patients’ ability to continue to have sound specialist control and specialist investigation – i.e. a purely socialisation of primary health services. The party of progress would prefer to remove the whole obligation of referral, but at least I would recommend to the Minister of Health to ensure that the legislation currently applicable to referral to a specialist, and that the referral obligation, if maintained, also applies to private specialists as well as public outpatients. One of the intentions of the fixed medical system was that the decision-maker should have a total responsibility for patients on his list, including in the case of day-to-day emergency care. This does not work at all, and emergency aid in the daytime is currently as difficult if not more difficult than before the introduction of the fixed medical system. There have been evidence of several serious cases in which emergency doctors are contacted during the day, in cases where the patient has either met a closed phone or has been informed that the decision-maker has gone away, or that the decision-maker cannot leave the office on a medical visit to his list patient. In many cases, the patient has become a caste ball between the permanent medical office and the local doctor who does not want to move out or accept patients who are not referred to by a doctor, preferably by a regular. As the Minister of Health is also well-known, there have been several deaths in this context, which we must be very sorry and which should have been unnecessary. It is also regrettable that some municipalities have reduced their medical care after the scheme entered into force, and this has also resulted in problems that have recently been mentioned when, in a desperate situation, patients receive neither help from their regular, medical or AMK centre. I also believe that there is a need for the Minister of Health to look into the routines of our medical clinics and AMK centres, and to ensure that the staff serving these emergency stations are competent health professionals who are able to help patients properly, so that assistance is provided as quickly as possible. I know from personal experience that even local medical clinics are increasingly refusing to move out on medical visits to acutely ill patients, but require these to be brought to the doctor. This is also a matter which the Minister of Health should address and, where appropriate, improve, so that serious sick people at all times of the day are not forced to appear at the medical wards, but must be sent to a doctor or an ambulance when the situation so requires. The real decision in such situations, I believe, must be personally attributed to the patient and the patient's relative, and not to random health professionals serving the medical care centres. The fixed medical system has also become much more expensive with more and more peculiarities for patients in different situations — costs that patients did not have in the old general medical system. This applies to additional rates when you visit a doctor other than the one you are listed at; then you get an extra charge of 50 kroner. If you have to replace a doctor, you have to pay for the journal transfer, which costs 70 kroner. These are expenditures that were previously included in the operating grant from the municipalities to the general practitioners. The same applies also to telephone consultations, where there has also been a trade-off, which was previously not practised. In other countries where the fixed medical system has been introduced, for example in Denmark and England, the scheme has also led to shorter consultation times for individual patients. It has gone down by approx. 30 pst., and it's reasonable to assume that we get the same development in Norway. The duration of consultation is reduced to allow patients to pass through as many patients as possible every hour. With the old GMP, practice was largely such that four-five patients per hour were taken by a general practitioner. For example, the situation in Denmark today is that there is a shortage of time for each patient on about Seven minutes. One does not need to be a doctor or a health professional in order to be able to demonstrate that in most cases this is not proper and that there is too little time spent on patients in a consultation situation. I also ask the Minister of Health to pay attention to this and to follow closely the development of time use in relation to the individual patient of future permanent doctors. Finally, I would like to make the claim that the fixed medical system is a socialization and monopoly of the primary health service that was completely unnecessary. It is bureaucratic and costly for patients, and the availability of individual patients is reduced. As I see it, it is primarily the decision-makers who profit from the scheme, while the users become the victims. However, I hope that the Minister of Health will take a closer look at the conditions I have mentioned here, in order to improve the arrangements for patients once the scheme has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e179	In the interpellation, two questions are addressed. The first concerns the liability of the fixed medical device in respect of immediate daytime assistance, and the second concerns the design of the referral scheme between the general practitioner and the specialist. I choose to concentrate on answering these two questions in this answer, and not go into the more fundamental resistance to the fixed medical system that the representative Alvheim uses to repeat. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 99 for 1998-99 on the Law amending the Local Health Services Act, a majority of the Stortinget argued that the permanent medical system should be responsible for providing immediate assistance to their list patients at daytime. The majority considered it very important that the decision-maker should normally have the necessary capacity to provide immediate assistance to persons on his list and that, through collegiate arrangements, there is always a doctor in charge of requests for immediate assistance. The majority also underlined that the municipalities are responsible for establishing cooperation between doctors in the case of immediate daytime assistance and that it is important that this is reflected in the individual fixed-term contracts. The majority showed, among others: that the doctors under the Medical Act, now the Health Personnel Act, have a general obligation to provide immediate help. The obligations of the decision with respect to the persons on the doctor's list are set out in the decree and in the central agreement concluded between the Medical Association on the one hand and the Municipal Council and the Municipality of Oslo on the other. According to Section 7 of the Ordinance, the decision-maker is to be responsible for the provision of the general medical service on a daily basis to persons on his or her list within the framework of the statutory, statutory and central agreement. Additional provisions, inter alia: whether the obligation of the authorising officer to provide immediate assistance to citizens on his or her list and on cooperation between the authorising officers in order to meet the need for immediate assistance has been given in a central contract. Furthermore, it follows from § 12(c) of the Ordinance that the municipality may lay down as a condition for the conclusion of a fixed-term contract that the permanent body participates in an organised medical watch system outside office hours and in the organised immediate assistance service of the municipalities during office hours, including the availability of the health radio network and the fulfilment of the call-out obligation. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked the supervisory authorities to monitor the implementation of the reform. In a letter dated 16 October 2001, the State Health Authority forwarded to the Ministry an assessment of the situation. The summary shows that the daytime medical watch system has been a problem in Oslo. Some problems are also reported in other counties. The Ministry has the impression that the decision-makers and individual municipalities have not been sufficiently clear about a common understanding of the works of agreement and the scope of the responsibility of individual decision-makers. The Ministry will therefore address these matters with the parties to the contract work in a short time so that one can contribute to the resolution of any disagreements as soon as possible. I also assume that the county councils follow up on the specific facts they have revealed that are considered critical. With regard to the specific cases in Oslo that have attracted considerable attention, I would like to inform you that the County Doctor in Oslo has carried out an overall review of the cases in order to obtain an overview of any common features, in addition to the fact that each of the individual cases is followed up separately. On this basis, the County Court writes in its letter of 9 November 2001 to the Municipality of Oslo: ‘The Oslo County Board will stress that the observations available are unlikely to give a representative and adequate characterisation of the emergency response in Oslo as a whole. Nevertheless, the county doctor finds that the conditions identified and explained are not reassuring and represent a failure to provide services to acute sick people in the city. ‘... on the basis of the knowledge of the county doctor, the problems of emergency preparedness in Oslo are not linked to the fixed medical system as a system. Therefore, in the opinion of the county doctor, the focus should be primarily on the organisation and organisation of emergency medical preparedness, so that it works optimally, not least in relation to communication, accessibility of telephones and flexible cooperation arrangements between actors.’;» On this basis, the County Medical Court asks the Municipality of Oslo to make a statement by 1 December on how the emergency medical services will be improved. I will of course follow up this carefully. So to the referral mechanism. With a country-wide fixed medical system, the basis for good cooperation between the first and second line services is based on a comprehensive responsibility for the patient, including an assessment of the patient’s needs for more specialised services, and feedback from the results of studies and treatment to the prescriber. The question of strengthening the referral mechanism to a private medical practitioner was raised in St. gemeld. No 23 for 1996-97 and in Ot. pp. No 99 for 1998-99 on the fixed medical device. In the proposal, it was stated that the Ministry aimed at designing a flexible referral system. In the course of the year’s tariff negotiations between the Medical Association, the Municipal Councils’ Central Association and the State, the parties made adjustments to the tariff system, which meant that it would be more expensive for patients to seek specialist without referral, and that it would still be economically attractive for the specialist to receive referrals rather than referrals to non-referred patients. So the system is based on the tariff system, not on a statutory condition of reference as a basis for reimbursement, such as for physiotherapists and psychologists. In the new referral mechanism, the reference shall apply until the examination of the status in question has been completed, but for a maximum period of one year from the first consultation. For chronically ill people who need regular specialist control, this means that the reference has to be renewed annually. However, a transitional system was established whereby patients who were under the treatment of specialists per year were treated. 1 June 2001, no new reference for the condition in question is needed until 1 July 2002. This also includes chronically ill patients who have regular specialist control and women who are regularly examined by a gynecologist. The background to the agreement on a time limit for the referral was that the parties felt this would provide a system that was easy to practice and control for patients, doctors, social security, etc., without the doubts and the need for more detailed rules that could exist without such a time limit. Furthermore, the objective of the agreed transitional regime has been to enable chroniclers and patients who are undergoing long-term treatment until 1 July next year to continue their treatment or have their control studies carried out without a new referral, under the same financial conditions for both patients and doctors as if referrals were made. It has been assumed that in good time before 1 July next year, most of these patients would be able to obtain a referral relatively easily, as there would normally be no need for the decision-maker to conduct a new study in this respect. The reference can be obtained when you still have an hour at your doctor’s office, by telephone with your doctor, or by contacting the specialist and asking for a referral. In this way, the annual renewal of the referral could take place relatively routinely and in addition contribute to ensuring good communication between the permanent and specialist, for the benefit of the patient. So far the intentions of the parties to the agreement. Unfortunately, despite the transitional arrangements, many chroniclers have been confronted with referral requirements already in the autumn, when they have contacted their specialist for new control. In some cases, the decision also requires the patient to be consulted in this context. It implies that the new referral mechanism has been practised much more rigidly than it had been proposed by the parties. This is a little patient-friendly and contributes to what I would call abuse of the time of doctors. This is not sustainable and it has to be changed. I took this initiative immediately after the government change in the autumn. I have therefore discussed the practice of the referral scheme with the Medical Association. Before Christmas, the association will present its assessments and proposals to the ministry, including, where appropriate, propose detailed guidelines to ensure that we have a more flexible and unbureaucratic practice, as has been the intention. I want to wait for this feedback. If necessary, I will address the issue of changes to the scheme during the tariff negotiations with the Spring Medical Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e219	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer to my interpellation, and I am quite pleased with that. The Minister of Health largely confirmed the estimates I had against the practice of the fixed medical system, both in the case of medical and emergency services, and in the case of specialist referral. I can inform the Health Minister here and now that it is almost not one day, and has not done so in months, without patients addressing me with the problems they are facing, especially in connection with this visit to the specialist and referral. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will try to make this system somewhat more flexible, and that chroniclers who have had two-three-four checks in a specialist for years can do so without the red tape of the decision-making process, which will also cost patients more money and become more expensive. The Minister for Health has also fully confirmed that it is the permanent members of the scheme who are responsible for acute illness in their list patients during the day. This is almost impossible to implement in practice today. You can't expect a full - time waiter to move from his practice and home to the patients in an emergency. I think you'll have to look at how it's possible to get a medical care system to meet patients' needs 24 hours a day. It is not sufficient to have a medical watch afternoon and night and to require that the prescriber be able to help his emergency patients in the daytime. It's practically not possible, as I see it. And it has to be a matter for the Minister of Health to go into more detail, namely getting a medical watch system 24 hours a day, so you're sure that when an acute illness occurs, you get help. And there is also reason to take a closer look at the practice of the local medical clinics, that patients should no longer be visited in the event of an acute illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e228	The representative Alvheim and I agree that there is a need to review the experience of the referral system with a view to making it simpler and more patient-friendly in its practice. At the same time, I need to stress that a referral mechanism is important, because some of the purpose of the fixed medical system is that we should make good and smooth use of the entire medical resources in Norway, that people should be helped, but that they should be helped at the lowest possible effective level, so that we do not get an abuse of the specialised services. Therefore, a gatekeeper function is necessary, but it should not affect people who are in a treatment course because of their chronic diseases, as one has seen examples of. Let me also remind you that we have only had the fixed medical system since 1 June. It's a fairly continuous reorganization. I can't agree that there's any socialization, but there's a continuous reorganization of the relationship between doctor, municipality and patient, and you have to assume that it's going to be some time before all these new relationships go well. It is regrettable that many patients experience that this change is not necessarily for the better, but I also have a certain impression that many have good experience. We don't have to think too much about that, we need to have systematic knowledge of that, and therefore I want to focus on a systematic acquisition of experience with the scheme when it has worked for some time. In addition, I want the supervisory authorities to continue to monitor the implementation of the reform, as they have been tasked to do, and thereby also to address cases such as those that require a supervisory follow-up. The provision of medical services is also an important part of the overall provision of general care. It must be properly organised, based on principles of medical care, on principles of good use of resources, but also on the principle of a clear and clear responsibility for immediate assistance in situations where immediate assistance is required. This is, of course, the whole basis for the provision of healthcare to patients, and it must work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e237	Good health services are one of the main pillars of the welfare state. Therefore, two essential requirements must be fulfilled. The population must have safe access to good health services when necessary. The public must be responsible for providing the public with the health care it needs. This has not always been the case in healthcare, nor in the provision of health services that belong to primary health services, i.e. the health care of municipalities. Lack of access to healthcare, unequal access, poor overview, unclear responsibilities led us in Norway to launch an experiment in four municipalities in the early 1990s, where the population got its regular doctor. The experience of these trials and the experience of the fixed medical system from other countries, e.g. Denmark, to provide clear benefits for the population. One effect was that the doctors were responsible for named residents on their list, with total coverage of the entire municipality. This created greater security for patients and, as a result, hope for better availability. The very unfortunate cases of emergency preparedness failure that we have unfortunately experienced all along have nothing to do with the fixed medical system itself. Every municipality has a statutory obligation to have a proper and good preparedness, whether the doctors have worked in private practice, as contract doctors, or have been publicly appointed doctors. This applies both day and night. This has been the case and of course it should be in a fixed medical system. This is also the basis for all organised vigilance and vigilance cooperation that we see between many municipalities. In the case of a requirement for referral from a primary physician to a specialist, the Code, inter alia, which the Minister for Health had in mind, states that a reference shall apply to the entire treatment of the condition in question, but not more than one year from the first consultation. I agree with the Minister of Health that we have a system in which we do not use specialist health services without delay, that is to say hospital services, when we can get equal treatment from the primary doctor. Otherwise, the pressure on the specialist health service could become excessive. However, I believe that within the framework of the law – possibly with corrections – there has to be an armstroke for reasonable judgement that no new visit to or contact with the primary doctor is required when it is obvious that a new visit to the specialist health service for a disease has already been referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e252	There are two important issues the representative John I. Alvheim addresses in his interview. The right, like the Advance Party, was initially opposed to the fixed medical system, because we considered that the problems of primary health services are largely a matter of lack of general practitioners and, to a lesser extent, a need for fundamental reforms in primary health services. But the system is now in place, and we need to ensure that the system works as well as possible for its citizens in the future. That is why we were very pleased when the Minister of Health, almost as one of the first issues, addressed the very problems related to the referral system and what it has led to. These problems may have been more clearly illustrated for the women who regularly go to the gynecologist, where they now need to have a reference from their permanent staff, if they have received some, or pay twice as high a price from the gynecologist. The decision-makers can thus receive many unnecessary hourly orders from patients who only come to the doctor to receive a referral. For many women who go to a gynecologist once or twice a year for postpartum cancer follow-up, this means that they first have to enter the hospital to receive referral. This is about the safety and trust of the doctor who has treated her at the hospital. We can risk that there will be a class distinction between those women who can afford to pay the cost of going to a gynecologist and those who have to go through a primary doctor. However, as the Minister for Health is aware in his reply, it may also seem that both the local authorities and the private specialists have handled the scheme in a more stringent way than what was intended. We hope that the initiative of the Minister of Health will lead to a flexible system for citizens, while at the same time meeting the need for communication between the permanent and the specialist. In the case of emergency preparedness, it is important to stress that the decision-makers receive a fixed remuneration from the State in order to meet the obligations arising from the agreement between the State and the Medical Association. It is therefore essential that the decision-making body has the necessary capacity to provide immediate assistance to persons on its list, and that, through collegiate arrangements, there is always a doctor who can perform the immediate assistance function in the daytime. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Right is satisfied that the Minister of Health in his reply shows that this is a question that he has addressed in an offensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e265	In January, before the introduction of the fixed medical scheme, 350 posts for general practitioners were unoccupied in Norwegian municipalities. In September, only three months after the introduction of the fixed medical device, that figure was reduced to 192. And based on the last figures I got from the Minister of Health today, it's per. November 170 unaccompanied posts in general practice. I record that you say from the Right and Bent Höie that what is the real problem in general practice is that you have so many unoccupied jobs. Yes, in that case you have the best example of how to do something about that scheme, precisely the introduction of the fixed medical system. What we see is that about half of the jobs that stood unoccupied are now occupied, only from the introduction of the scheme in June. What you have to be concerned about, of course, is that the jobs that remain unoccupied are also filled. With regard to the problem that Alvheim is raising, namely that there is a major problem related to the provision of the population, not least in terms of immediate help, there is nothing worse than being in a municipality where you don't have a doctor. It is clear that instead of doing so in as little fruitful a way as Alvheim here, when he constantly presents it as if it is an accident that the fixed medical system has been put in place, Alvheim should be much more focused on the best possible effect of the scheme. This means looking at government instruments linked to municipalities that are currently struggling with the recruitment of fixed doctors. It may not be right that many of the municipalities that already have the most difficult financial problems should have to recruit the doctors themselves. A majority in the UK should have joined forces and looked at such a state-owned mechanism. This means that in one year or two years, you might be able to stand in a situation where all Norwegian municipalities have occupied the fixed positions that you have set up. However – and this is an important but – we still see that the evening post Tonight presented it precisely yesterday, 21 November, in the lead place, that there is an unacceptable medical care offer in a number of Norwegian municipalities. I and SV believe that in the context of the fixed medical system one should take inwards that one has had too much confidence that one should be able to solve all medical problems by being able to take care of it by the individual medical examiner. That can't be right. It still has to be a municipal responsibility to ensure that you have a continuous medical care system where the issues are such that you should not have to wait to get into the hospital. It is therefore appropriate to assume a responsibility beyond what has now been assumed by the various governments, to organise the medical watch in a different way and with a different type of commitment to Norwegian municipalities. With regard to the obligation of confidentiality, I think it's amazing how little care is given to both Alvheim, and to the extent that Höie in his post, too, is one of the problems that you have to deal with, namely that a number of people do not come to the doctor just because we have an over-consumption, for example. in the case of gynecologists. Many of the women were never to be with a gynecologist, they were to be with a regular, and then priority was to be given to getting the worst patients to a gynecologist. But it's just a obligation to make room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e278	The high uptake of the fixed medical system in the population and figures confirming that more and more vacant general medical homes are being filled shows that the reform is largely functioning as intended. Over and over, it's become easier to get needed medical attention. It provides security for the population. The interpellant points out that the referral scheme to the specialist and the uncertainty about immediate daytime assistance has brought the fixed medical system into discredit. To me, this seems to be an Oslo phenomenon, which does not apply to the rest of the country. According to the newspapers, it could seem that the municipality of Oslo failed to have a day shift on the basis of the fixed medical system. As the rapporteur for the reform, I would like to make it clear that at the same time we are dealing with a draft regulation on the fixed medical system. It was clarified that the municipality can make provision for the permanent staff to participate in an organised medical watch system outside office hours and in the municipality's organised immediate assistance during office hours. According to the Local Health Services Act, the municipality is required to care for the needs of the population for necessary health care. It is also clear that the municipality must organise medical care. I am pleased that the Minister of Health quoted in his reply the County Council in Oslo, which clearly states that the problems of emergency preparedness in Oslo are not linked to the system itself. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State will closely follow up on the emergency medical offer in the capital and in other municipalities that have problems. The organisation and organisation of emergency services themselves must not compromise the quality of healthcare so that the patient does not receive immediate help. In the questionnaire for a time, the former Minister of Health promised that the referral system would be simpler and more flexible for chronically ill people who regularly need to be checked by a specialist. I noticed that today’s Minister of Health said that ‘the new referral mechanism has been practised much more rigidly than it had been suggested by the parties’. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of simplification, but at the same time we are concerned that there is a good communication between the first and second line service. It is important that the prescriber is given a full overview of the individual patient’s illnesses and drug use in order to provide the patient with a comprehensive and good health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e301	It is no secret that the Center Party was skeptical of the staging system at the first time to deal with this in Stortinget. But it eventually became a majority to implement the stipulations. The contract work is now in place, and then an effort must be made to make this system work in the best possible way. Our scepticism, among other things. in general poor medical coverage, not least in the districts, and also in the fact that parts of what was outlined — at least at the first time here in Stortinget — seemed to be a relatively rigid scheme. And it suggests that there are difficulties with both flexibility, responsibilities and clear responsibilities in terms of the fixed medical system and part of what is now happening in relation to emergency needs and medical care, not least in the daytime. As the Minister for Health pointed out, the scheme provides that doctors should be responsible for their patients at daytime, including in emergency situations, and that they should be able to participate in organised evening and night-time cooperation in the field of call-out and medical care. Like the representative Alvheim, I think that in the daytime this has to be solved in a slightly different way. There must be a medical watch system that works alongside the prescribers who are then responsible for office consultations and for their patients at that level. The decision-makers must jointly – where there are several fixed doctors in the same municipality – add up to a medical watch system that one takes together, but perhaps after a tour plan. Unfair working conditions in the organisation of work and distribution, I think, have led to a part of what we now see as a problem. Another thing I would like to point out is something that came out in the evening post this week when it came to home visits, namely that the medical care system today says first of all that people have to visit the doctor and do not have the right to visit at home. Among other things, it is now signaled that you do not want to practice home visits to children in Oslo. I think that's wrong. I may also think that it is important to have a home visit for sick children, in order to also be able to see the environmental aspects of a child, at least a child who is often ill. The costs of a medical care system were addressed in the Social Committee in connection with our emergency communication, and among others. It signalled the desire to further evaluate State co-financing for costly medical care systems and for medical care cooperation on an intercommunal basis. The medical system should be a good system where there are several doctors. Something else is where there is only one doctor, and where there may still be no doctor, the problem is greatest. As regards the adjustment of tariffs and referral regulations, I think it should be possible to do so. I see the health minister's statement here as positive, so we can clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e321	I think the debate has been so far clarifying, and I have the confidence of the Minister of Health that the two aspects I have pointed out are being cleared up. This applies both to medical care/emergency assistance and to referral practices. When the representative Asmund Kristoffersen pointed out that the scheme in Denmark has been over many years and is very successful, I can refer to Sweden, which had the system on the rails for two years and went away from it because it was too problematic and did not respond to expectations. So here we have both of them to build on. So Kristoffersen goes on to say that emergency care in the daytime has nothing to do with the fixed medical system. Yes, it really does! And that's where we were going to try to make the situation better for patients by assigning these doctors this responsibility and taking care of their patients in the daytime. So it doesn't work at all! So you have to do something about this, and there I fully agree with the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo; I don't think we can solve emergency aid in the daytime by using the doctor and assigning this responsibility to the doctor. I just don't think it can be implemented in practice as the influx of patients is in the doctors' offices every day. On the other hand, I completely disagree with the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo when he tries to imagine that access to general practitioners has increased so significantly due to the fixed medical system. Yes, thank you for that, when you can calculate an income of over 800,000 kroner before you have seen a patient at all! This has to do with the market, it has to do with money, when access to general practitioners has become as good as it has become – even if it is not good enough. In addition, the Ministry has introduced a very restrictive line in approving newly created posts in our hospitals, so that the hospitals have at the same time had a shortage of specialists. So to the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund: No, it's not just some Oslo phenomenon this, neither in emergency or referral issues. This applies to the whole country, and I believe that the representative Woie Duesund has also received similar enquiries from all over the country. We need to get a system in which patients should not have to spend hours sitting on the phone with one instance after another and eventually not get help and perhaps even lose their lives during this traffic!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e334	Let me thank the interpellant for the strong commitment he has on behalf of patients in general and especially in relation to this scheme. It must never be that, as politicians, we become more concerned with defending a system we have adopted than with caring for the people to be served by the system. In this way, for my part, I have no performance related to the details of this scheme. I am concerned that it will work as intended. We have a major research evaluation work going on, where we will get the first assessments already to the spring of how this works. We have a surveillance through the supervisory authorities. And where there is reason to do so, it is clear that adjustments need to be made. But at the same time, I have to warn a little about the trends in rematching so early in a new order, because it is absolutely necessary to let the system go. I believe that there is a clear responsibility position in the laws, regulations and agreements that are in place. What is important is that all those responsible ensure that they take their share of responsibility and that the overall supervisory authorities ensure that it does so. It will be followed up. Then I have to remember, since I've been in this kind of debate in a previous round, that there was a great fear that this scheme would not be implemented because we lacked so many hundred plays. We have now, through the strategy that was then adopted, namely regulation of the medical market, incentives on very many fronts and the organisation of a fixed medical system, achieved better medical coverage in the districts than what we have had in many, many years. And it shouldn't be uninteresting to anyone in this room, and perhaps in particular not to the representative of the Center Party, who repeated some of the early scepticism that the Center Party had to the arrangement. I think you've actually got a system that works better for the districts than the old system. - But leave it alone. We will follow the initiatives that have been taken and that I presented in my first answer, and we will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 The size has now come to the examination of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e356	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e361	Carl I: Hagen – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e364	I will not vote against the President's proposal to derogate from the Rules of Procedure, but I will already point out that this should be a rarity. Both the Storting and the Government should ensure that, where matters are well known, matters should be brought in time to the Storting, and the Storting Committees should have the usual opportunity to use the necessary time. This situation cannot be accepted in this kind of case once again!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e371	No further references have been made to the President's proposals. *
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e385	This is a follow-up to a decision taken by Stortingen about four weeks ago. There is a temporary State insurance liability for Norwegian aircraft and airports in the event of damage to third parties arising from acts of war or terrorism. Some have happened since the last time the Storting dealt with this matter. Among other things, as Stortinget wanted last, insurance liability is reduced. Work on this is ongoing in the department. The State now has an insurance liability of approximately NOK 1 400 billion, eventually approximately NOK 2 000 billion. It is by its very nature that this is a temporary arrangement. I would like to comment briefly on two comments from the Progress Party on this matter. The one comment relates to the fact that a quickest attempt must be made to reestablish a private market for this type of insurance. There is a continuous work in the ministry, and a collective committee is behind the desire to have this implemented. The second comment relates to what the representative Hagen was about: the short time the Stortinget has to deal with the matter. I also agree, in principle, with what Mr Hagen said, and what has been included in the comments of the Progress Party. The reason why one has waited a long time to promote this matter is that one hoped to get into a so-called normal situation, i.e. with a private market, so that one wouldn't put things up again. But the comment from the representative Hagen and the comments in the setting are of course worth noting, and I hope this is the last time we get this case to be dealt with. A deadline of up to 30 days for the extension of the department has been set here. And now it's about a total liability equal to two oil funds, the last one was three, so it goes the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e396	Insurance schemes such as this belong to the private market. It's not a public responsibility. But the option in this case would have been to put the aircraft fleet on the ground, and therefore the Progress Party agrees to intervene in this. But I want to stress this by reestablishing a private market. I see that the government is adding up to make attempts at it. But, as I said, I want to stress that this is done, and that you put all your strength into establishing such a market. It looks like this, when you get it from the Government, you calculate that the treatment time of the Storting should be proportionally shorter the higher the sums that are inside of what we're going to treat. So here we're talking about providing a guarantee of almost NOK 1500 billion, and it's not acceptable that we have a treatment period that is as short as this. It's not the first time, it's actually the second time we get this case to be dealt with with with so briefly. And that's not acceptable, and it won't be accepted multiple times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e405	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e413	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-22.ana.ud2357e479	Case No. No voting theme is available. See the President's remark before the vote on case No. So 3, this side right over here. Before we go to voting on case No. 3, the President will draw attention to the fact that there was no formal objection to the proposal to derogate from the Rules of Procedure. The President then finds it appropriate to ask Storting's approval that the matter now be referred to voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
