ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e26	The government has put forward proposals for a new tax system for residential and recreational property, and that is what we are dealing with today. The working party and SV are in favour of a tax relief of SEK 1.5 billion, or almost a halve of the income tax in relation to what the housing owner pays today. This means that if you have a dwelling of 147 m2 in today's day zone 1, which is 20 years old, you don't have to pay a house tax. And if this is the case in subtraction zone 2, the dwelling may be in the whole of 184 m2 and one is still exempt from house tax. The Labour Party will eliminate the gross unfair discrimination against housing owners that we have today, by introducing a new and simple tariff system to protect ordinary dwellings. If our proposal was accepted today, 60 pst would. the owners of dwellings do not pay taxes on income from living in their own dwellings. Plus another 22 pst. which would receive a reduced or equal housing tax, while some who have very large dwellings would receive increased taxes. That's good distribution policy. The Workers' Party will not throw itself at the tax-laundering populism. The taxation of the income of large dwellings can be defended, and it can be an important part of a fairer tax system, where the owners of palaces in the millions of classes can contribute more to the community. It's been 32 years since the first housing tax committee was set up. For 25 years, Stortinget has called for a new and more equitable housing tax system. Today's equation values are random, and can vary from 10 pst. for 100 pst. of the value of the dwelling for ‘identical’ dwellings. A crack of between 300 and 400 pst. is not uncommon. The upgrading of the equation values in the last decade has reinforced the injustice. All parties, including the Right Party and the Advance Party, have been involved, even though they have poor memory in this area. The Centre Party and the Labour Party said in 1997 that ‘there is an urgent need to clarify the tariff base so that similar housing across the country is valued somewhat equally. The current tax system is highly unsatisfactory and needs to be replaced by a better system». It has to do with the system more than the number of square meters and years. That's it! That's it! The government has now submitted that. But now everyone is waving away, now it's not right to do anything, because this year it's a choice. The Christian People's Party and the Left will abolish the income tax on dwellings. But even though it is a goal for some parties, it also has to be a responsibility for these parties to get fixed up in the currently shaken tax system, which is so unfair and random. A taxiing system must also have these batches. The centre party, SV and the Workers' Party largely agree on how a dwelling should be taxed. There is also no big difference in the size of the dwellings in the working party and SV goes into the setting, and the center part goes into it. Because we have to remember that there is a significant difference in external dimensions and dimensions measured by living area, where dwellings, stairways, etc. shall be kept outside. The dwelling area is much smaller in many houses than the gross area. But here it is clearly former representative Lundtegen who has the authority of the Central Party. We, who were involved in and dealt with the tax system in 1997, remember well that the problem at that time, among other things, was that old-age and disability pensioners with low incomes and large houses came out poorly. This has been corrected by the Government, and new rules are now being promoted that do not affect pensioners with low tax capacity, even though they own a large dwelling. Age and disability pensioners with low incomes and single dependants with transitional benefits are screened separately. Many old-age and disability pensioners with low incomes are currently struggling with high housing tax. Now we could have come up with an acceptable solution, but right now it doesn't look like the batches are so busy protecting them with low incomes. Now there's more to do to screen the rich. So to the Right proposal to have a safety valve where the maximum equation rate is set to 30 pst. of the technical value of the house or market price, if the current fare goes beyond this. In the VG on Saturday we find a good example of that. Here is one that has bought a reptile of 23 m2 for 650 000 kroner and pays 682 kroner in taxes, and one that owns an apartment of 116 m2 with a market price of 3 million. kr and pays zero in tax. If the Right adopts its proposal, the person who has 116 m2 will not complain about the decision and still pay zero in taxes, and the person who owns 23 m2 will still have to pay the same further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e49	The current housing tax system is random and unreasonable. Two identical dwellings located right next to each other may have far different rates. There is a need for a new, fairer and more predictable tax system. All parties at Stortinget need a new system. Even those who will wind up the property tax, the Right and the Advance Party over time will have to have a tax base, a tax rate until it is implemented. All the other batches, which will retain the property tax, need such a tariff base permanently. Right wants a system of 30 pst. of market value. Yes, there are those who are being criticised for wanting to check the tiles in the bathroom, because they are the ones who want to rely on the actual market value. Christian People's Party and Left will use insurance value. There are many issues raised: it may help policy-holders to exert pressure on companies to set lower rates. Some properties are insured abroad. Here the method may differ from practice in Norway. In housing pools and housing laws, it will be difficult to find a basis for individual housing rates, as these normally have common insurance policies. The government has put forward proposals for a fairer housing tax system. The system is simple – everyone can calculate their own taxes! The tariff shall be based on production value, not on market value. However, there is a separate security rule that allows no one to obtain a tax base higher than the market value of the dwelling. In line with this, two deduction zones are proposed for dwellings located in areas where the rates are either assumed to be close to or above the actual value of the dwelling. The system provides a good distribution profile. Pensioners with low incomes are protected against a large increase in income taxes. The government's proposal means that about 80 pst. by housing owners – eight out of ten – will receive lower or reduced housing tax. Nearly half of the owner-occupiers receive tax reliefs of more than NOK 1000. Near 40 pst. of all year-old dwellings, no benefit tax is payable, against now 10 pst. All new all-year-old dwellings of up to 85 m2 are free of any house tax. A full-year residence in the normal zone of 100 m2 with an average age is exempt from all housing taxes. This is a proposal that means that most people get tax relief. We get a fair fare system. In the setting, the Labour Party extends even further: after the vote proposal 82 pst. with a lower tax or no change. Six out of ten of all all all year-old homes do not have a benefit tax on now one in ten. All year-round dwellings up to 110 m2 do not pay any house taxes at all. It seems that the Storting today is unable to gather about such a relief. It will be a loss for the whole political system. But above all, there will be a loss for eight out of ten owner-occupiers who miss a tax haven of up to NOK 1.5 billion. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e70	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e73	After listening to the Council of State, I would like to repeat a question that I have asked to workers' party representatives in the Chamber before today. Because it seems that what is now the Workers' Party and SV's proposal, is so close to what is also the Centre's proposal, that the difference is very small. The council says the Labour Party has gone a long way. First, the government went a long way, and then the Labour Party later in the committee has gone a long way, and it's a loss for the whole political system that one can't agree here today. Then the question is, when the Labour Party has reached as far as the Council of State says, why in all the world is it not stretching the small meter extra to get to a deal? It is not to be expected that a batch that is completely opposed to such a tariff system should extend so far that a subsidiary supports a system in which a fundamental disunity exists, but parties that are almost a few should be able to extend further to become quite a few. If it really is such a loss both for the political system and for eight out of ten homeowners as the Council of State said in its speech, why in all the world didn't the Labour Party extend the small meter in addition, so that one had achieved a multiple today? Is it because interest in getting multiples really wasn't there? Or what's the reason why the Labour Party couldn't agree with, for example. the square meter number for which the Center Party sketched that they wanted to go in, which also these two games were some about in the previous period of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e82	Let me first point out that the proposal made by the Workers' Party in the adjustment, which means that everyone with housing of less than 110 m2 will be exempt from house tax, at the same time means that a dwelling with an average age can have a significantly larger area and not receive a housing tax. So the Labour Party through the Government made a proposal for an annual relief of NOK 1 billion. The working party has added a further DKK 1/2 billion in relief in the setting. It has been tried to set up in such a way that it should be as much as possible in accordance with the political signals that have been perceived, and I think that one has gone very far to reach a solution. I think it's a serious cross of thought if it turns out that in this room there's a will to reduce the tax on housing, and that you let the best be the enemy of good and in that way not get a result. The structure of the working party, which the Workers' Party and SV promote in the adjustment, is such that six out of ten do not pay house taxes, while one out of ten do not pay them today. The Christian People's Party also needs a tariff system, but they have to find that there is no connection to their arrangement to rely on insurance tariffs. And then the question is, which the representative also has to take inwards: is it that you have to keep the bad system we have today, or will it be better to have a system that has an annual relief of SEK 1.5 billion, which means that most people get out better or equal, that is 80 pst. by the population come out better or equal? I think it's a cross of thought if you choose to say no to such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e89	It's a matter of hearing the Minister of Finance talk about $1.5 billion in tax relief. What he says nothing about is that in the last two years, the Workers' Party has increased the housing charges and the housing tax by 25 pst. And as is most often the case when the Minister of Finance talks about taxes and taxes, there are important elements that are written in a very small way. Most of us sitting in the hall have now understood that you're going to get $1.5 billion in relief on the property, and that it's just around the corner. No, of course not. Schjøtt-Pedersen says that if the Workers' Party's new housing tax system, which dramatically increases the tax values of dwellings, is to be implemented, it will be with effect from 2005. So it's going to be done in the next magnification period. If it was the case that the Workers' Party was all of a sudden so concerned that you would ease the tax on housing, why have you not proposed to add an increase in the discount and give this relief immediately? The point is that in the case of housing taxes, you should never listen to what the Workers' Party says, but look at what they do. In the last two years, the house tax has increased by 25 pst. But until 2005 – what tariff system should you have? Yes, then the Workers' Party believes that we should have the current tariff system with the great injustices that lie in it. Here the right has proposed a safety valve. We have said that at least it should be that for those homes that have a very high rate compared to others, i.e. what causes us to be in a situation where similar dwellings are treated differently, a safety valve should be implemented. The Labour Party does not intend to vote in favour. Does the Minister for Finance think it is right that this injustice persists until 2005? Will he here and now confirm that this tax relief is obviously four years ahead of time? And can the Minister of Finance explain to Odelstinget why the housing tax has been increased by 25 pst. So the last few years and now just before the election, it's going to take the step of presenting it as if you're too relieved? It's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e102	I have noticed that the representative Burnde is being touched by my post. Otherwise you may be tempted to return to the representative Burne the priest's word that you should hear what I am saying, but not do what I am doing. But what is what the Right has done? Every year, the right has been in government position, under the government of Willoch and under the government of Syse, the housing rate has been increased by 10 pst. – over and over again with 10 pst. But not enough with that. We don't have to go back further than when the Right had the opportunity during this magnification period to influence the economic environment. When they entered into a budget agreement with the Bondevik government, there was an increase in housing charges there as well. There was an increase in housing charges in the budget line concluded in the autumn of 1998. And then I think the representative Burnde takes relatively big words in his mouth to look at practice. The practice is that every right time – with the exception of a year – they have had the opportunity to influence the budget, they actually have increased housing charges. Then the Right suggests that you have a safety valve of 30 pst. the market value. So the arrangement of the working party is not such that the smallest dwellings, or dwellings less than 110 m2, should have a tax rate that triggers a tax liability of 30 pst. the market value. The structure of working parity and SV is that the dwellings that are less than 110 m2 do not – do not – this housing tax. I am aware that the Right's proposal provides a relief for the very largest dwellings. Yeah, that's probably right. But the arrangement of the Workers' Party is therefore that dwellings of reasonable, normal size, 82 pst. of the dwellings, come out better or equal. So the right one says you're going to be based on 30 pst. the market value. Yes, I repeat once again: if there are anyone who is concerned about checking the price of the bathrooms, it will be those who are occupied with market value. We are based on the production value of our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e111	I want to pursue the question of equality tariffs a little bit more. I guess I don't think the Minister of Finance is responding very carefully to what might happen to a new system. We know that with the current system, all budgets have increased the cost of the equation, and thus the tax base for most people has deteriorated. What do you want to do with a new system? It's obvious that this is an area where you can quickly figure out ways to increase the tax base at some point in time. It is good that the Workers' Party is now suddenly trying to present itself as a very tax-friendly party in this matter. Everyone is aware that this is not the case. And another question would then be, what about all those who actually end up having to pay house taxes, even with the new system if it were to be adopted? In fact, there are quite a number of owner-occupiers who end up with a house tax despite the fact that some people get relief. And what about them? Isn't their home a home? Or is it that for these dwellings there is a very special tax technique, a very special tax system, or a special income that makes people living in larger dwellings, for different reasons, deserve housing tax more than those that the Government has found it opportunistic to exempt from house tax? In other words, not to get entangled in all these discussions, you should have eliminated the whole system. There was then no debate about the tiles in the bathroom, which the Minister of Finance is concerned about. There had also been no debate on square meters and internal and external dimensions. They had a simple non-tax system. It would have been preferable rather than using the dwelling as a tax item to a greater and greater extent. If the Minister of Finance believes that this new system is so tax-friendly for so many, will he at the same time go so far as to say that it will not be relevant for the Government at any time to increase the tax base by finding mechanisms to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e127	I must also be allowed to remind the representative Jensen of the near past. It was not only the Right who made budgetary settlements with the Bondevik government to increase housing charges. The representative Jensen and the Progress Party also made budgetary settlements with the Bondevik government, and increased housing charges. The working party has, for its part, submitted an arrangement in this setting which implies that 82 pst. by the owners of the dwelling come out equally or better. And then there's also a distribution table of how this turns out in relation to different social groups. And if I don't remember very well, it's like everyone with a total household income of less than 1 million. kr comes out better, while those with household incomes over 1 million. kr in some cases comes out slightly worse. There is a distribution table as shown in the Workers' Party and SV comments in this setting. What I think, for my part, is a serious cross of thought in this matter is that there is agreement among all the parties in the Grand Duchy that the taxation system that we have today for housing taxing is not good. It needs redemption. It is also true that all parties believe that there is a need to arrive at something else, and all parties depend on having a tax system. It is not the case that the Progress Party is not dependent on a taxiing system. They need it until the tax on wealth may be abolished. Despite that, you just look at what you think is the best proposal, and don't look at what in total would actually give housing owners a better result – a fairer result, a more predictable result and a result that would bring significant relief. And the proposal presented by the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party provides a relief of NOK 1.5 billion. But then the Right Party and the Advance Party say: Well, we see it, but we believe that it might be something that could be better, and therefore we do not vote for a proposal that will be significantly better for the housing owners in this country. - I think that's very worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e140	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e144	Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance's posts contained several actual errors, so I started with the first one. He argued that the Progress Party and the Right in the autumn of 1998 voted in favour of an increase in housing charges. That's not true. In the autumn of 1997, the Government of Bondevik proposed to the Stortinget that the housing charges be increased by 10 pst. The Right Party and the Advance Party were then reduced to a 5 pst increase in negotiations with the Bondevik government. I'm the first to admit that we should have it further down. But we reduced a proposal for an increase. In the fall we saw how it goes when the centre parties negotiate with the Workers' Party. The working party had initially proposed 10 pst. increase in the tariff base and the outcome of the negotiations was that it was 15 pst. increase of the tariff base. That's the facts in that case. I also noticed that the Minister of Finance made no attempt to answer my question about when this new tariff system will come into force. The documents state that the Government intends to take effect from the financial year 2005. Then he jumps around here and promises tax relief. But if it is true that the Workers' Party is really serious, why does it not warn the Minister of Finance that he is taking self-criticism for the 25 p.m. increase that has been in the last two years – at least until 2005 there is either a dramatic increase in the bottom-up or a reduction in the housing tax. But the point is that for Schjøtt-Pedersen it's much better to promise SEK 1.5 billion in four-five years, because it's appropriately non-binding and with little writing. Then everything could have happened in the meantime. The working party is to trust with regard to the house tax! They are to be trusted because they try at any time to increase the tax if they have the opportunity. And what's written in agreements is not worth the paper it's written on. In the spring of 1997, the Workers' Party agreed with the Centre Party on a new tariff base. Then the Workers' Party also said that the tariff system we had at the time was so through the hole, it was so unfair that you couldn't raise the tariffs until a new system was in place. It's been four years, and then what happened? The Labour Party has voted in favour of increasing the tariffs every year since it was promised not to increase the tariffs, because it would further increase the injustice. In 1997, the Centerpartie also agreed that no housing less than 150 m2 would be taxed on housing. When the government presented its proposal now, there were dwellings of less than 85 m2 that were to be exempted from house taxes. Then you've let yourself press 110 m2. There you have also run from the promises you made in the past. If you go back to your position in the spring of 1997, there was another promise from the Workers' Party that: ‘it must be possible for the taxpayer to verify for himself that the rate of the owner-occupied dwelling is correct. To achieve this, the taxation method must be known and housing tariffs must be publicly available information». What is the consequence of the tariff system that the Workers' Party and Schjøtt-Pedersen now add? Well, you have to go into people's homes and measure the area if you want to check it. People themselves have to state in a housing confidence the size of the area, but if the public believes that you haven't measured it correctly, they have to enter people's homes. This was guaranteed in the spring of 1997 not to be done when negotiating with the Senterpartiet, and it is stated in Stortinget’s documents. Then it is that the result of the Workers' Party's attitude to the Right's safety valve proposal is that all tariffs should be continued at the current level until 2005, even if it has been checked out vigorously and the injustice is the same. That's why I say that there are crocodile tears when the Workers' Party is now supposedly so concerned about the injustice that lies in the system. Why, then, do not vote for a safety valve that will last until 2005, which guarantees that no one should have more than 30 pst. of entry costs or real market value as a tariff? After the election, it can actually be risked that the Workers' Party, instead of providing a relief that is claimed to be included in 2005, can propose an increase in the Equation Tariff. Is it so that you can now guarantee that you will not increase the Equation Rate, as you did in 1997, or is it just an election vow, because being negative to house tax is something the Workers' Party is just in an election year? That's probably the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e168	Previous speeches have repeatedly pointed out that there are choices, and are obviously very concerned about it. But I have to remind you that the reason why we are dealing with this matter now is that a majority in the Grand Duchy in the context of the budgetary procedure decided that the Government should submit the housing tax system by 1 May. It was presented in good time before that. And we don't have anything against it, but there's reason to remember that when it sounds like the Workers' Party has now found to come up with a new fare system because it's a choice, it's wrong. Housing access has been discussed in Norway for several decades, and there have been several proposals. The reason for this, of course, is that everyone agrees that the pricing system we have today is unfair. There is a difference between the taxiing in the same street in the same municipality of almost equal dwellings. Such a system has been widely agreed that we cannot have. That's why it's too bad that all those who say they're going to change the unfair system that we have are not able to agree on a new system. We've thought it's so important to clean up the system that we have, and to replace it with something new, that we've been willing to go far. Firstly, the government proposed a good proposal, which was also commented on as well by the centre parties when it was presented. A good basis for further discussion was then said about the proposal that no one with housing of up to 85 m2 would pay house taxes, and that we would have a drop-down limit of 60 years with 1⁄2 pst. reduction of the tariff base each year. In that proposal, there was a tax return of NOK 1 billion. But then we realized, of course, that we had to go far here to get a better system than what we have today. So we first went the steps that made us reach 100 m2 without losing anything more than the billion that the government had deposited, and 20 years of escalating relative to the age factor as a zero sum game. And not only are we going to go far, but we're going to go further than far when, at the top of it, we added additional tax on half a billion dollars to get up to 110 m2 as the limit, that is, no one who has a dwelling of 110 m2 is going to pay house tax. That would mean 60 pst. no house tax and no further 22 pst. received lower taxes on housing than today – i.e. a good system. But it's not as it has been in some newspapers, and rumors in some media, that there's a disagreement of 10 m2 or 20 years or something like that. For example, if you read the setting, you'll see that there is a much more fundamental disagreement than that, because the Central Party, which is the only party that has put in another bill, that is, the basis for a different tariff system, has put itself on a completely different system than the one the Government has set up, and slipped into the negotiations. It's a completely different system being proposed by the Center Party. So there is a consensus that the system is too bad, and if the Stortinget wants to, we can now assume that no one who has a dwelling up to 110 m2 will pay a house tax. It would provide a good distribution profile in relation to the unforeseeable tariff system we have today. But unfortunately, it looks like when there are elections, it's a goal in itself that you shouldn't be able to agree on a tax system that would be good for the inhabitants. I have to say that when I hear Mr Enoxen draw his completely logical reasoning that it is strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which are for less house tax, do not vote for a reduction in the house tax, I agree with that. But then it does not directly make sense that the Centre Party, which is engaged in the same and that the tax system is currently unfair, will not vote subsidiaryly in favour of a proposal which has been described by Enoxen himself as significant ‘step in the right direction’. Unfortunately, the conclusion of this treatment seems to be that today’s system should continue. That's what I think is regrettable, because we deserve a fairer pricing system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e181	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e184	The majority of Odelstinget believes that housing taxes should be less burdensome for people most than is the case today. Nevertheless, it does not seem that the same majority is able to achieve that goal. An unworthy black player in these election times is an essential part of the explanation of the inconsistency between expressed wishes and the ability to achieve the necessary results. Presently, the Equation Tariffs are determined at the discretion of the local Equation Offices, which have very different and arbitrary practices. It should be easy, at least for those who don't want to tax the Norwegian people, to cut the benefit tax first and foremost. Why do you go through such nonsense when you've been working and striving for many years to pay loans and interest, expenses for maintenance and in addition have paid taxes on wealth and maybe property taxes, plus all the other municipal taxes? While politicians and bureaucrats only increase the equation rate by 10 pst. One year, you'd like to increase by 15 pst. the following year. With all this heavy ballast, you can just ask what advantage you actually have of owning a home. Norway is the only country in Europe that maintains its own tax on housing benefits. The government's proposals for housing tax are fundamentally unfair and will provide at least as unfair estimates as current rates do, even if Schjøtt-Pedersen and the representative Signe Eye are trying to convince the opposite. Very few of the Government's proposals on taxes and taxes are for the benefit of the people. That's a reason why we have zero-tax contributors today. According to the government's model, for example, villas in the Holmenkol lock, or on Bygdøy for the sake of the case, which is worth 10 million. kr, get the same house tax as a house for 1 million. in Rumforskog, because, among other things, does not take into account the value of the land. The employee party government's proposal for new housing tax can be a gift package for coffers with luxurious housing plans. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, Norway can become a tax haven for those with large housing dreams — even though it is not wrong to have it in itself. This is the result of the Government’s commitment to reallocation policy — based on well-known social-democratic solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e199	When I hear the picturesque descriptions from both the Government and the claims representatives from the Workers' Party about how many people would have dropped house taxes or received housing taxes with the new proposal from the Workers' Party, I would like to remind you that if it is that 60 pst. In other words, almost half of the population still have to pay house taxes. I'm not quite sure where the justice of such a system lies, even with the Workers' Party's thinking. So this means that a lot of people still have to pay house taxes, and I don't understand these tables you're referring to when it comes to the income base. Because there are actually some people today who live in dwellings that can be valued as sums over what is in the new housing tax proposal, who do not actually have a income base that would basically mean that they could afford to buy such a dwelling today. There are many reasons why you have such a dwelling. You could have inherited it, and you could have bought it at a time when the housing prices were quite different from what they are today. So that means that there's not always a relationship between the income you have and the value of the dwelling you live in. That's why the whole system is becoming unfair, and that's why I don't like trying to present this as a system that affects at least those with low incomes. Then you try to create the impression that maybe it's the Right Party and the Advance Party that sit with the key when it comes to getting a solution to the housing tax question. In any case, I believe there is no doubt that the Progress Party has, over the years, raised the need to abolish the benefit tax on living in owner-occupied dwellings. We have even wanted to abolish the property tax, and we will prohibit the municipalities from collecting property taxes on the dwelling in addition. Why should we then take responsibility for helping to create a new system that in itself will cost 350 million? to implement, when we think that there is no need for a system because we want to wind up all the schemes? I don't want that responsibility, and I don't understand why the Workers' Party is trying to assign it to us. At the same time, there is uncertainty in this, which has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, namely that the aim is to introduce a new system only in 2005. So it's going to be a few more years. Much can happen within that time, both in terms of the tax base and new decisions relating to the housing tax. In other words, there is no certainty whatsoever that such a system actually ends up being adopted. The only thing that's certain, you know the political system right, is that you end up spending millions of dollars on developing a new system that you're not even sure will be put into practice. That will not be the responsibility of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e208	Much of this debate has been about encouraging parties to vote subsidiaryly for what they are not in favour of. That responsibility rests primarily on the government party, which was ultimately in agreement with the SV and the Senterpartiet. This time they have not managed to reach such an agreement, and it is a problem for the Government. It belongs to the rarest units that the government's proposal does not actually get a majority. As one of us who have followed the work in the committee relatively closely, I must say that great intensity has not been put into the work to achieve such an agreement either. At least that's the way it can be observed from the side line. But it's not easy to ask those parties that don't want a new tariff system – because we don't want a tax – to contribute to a tariff system that, in our view, we don't need, because we want to liquidate the tax. The responsibility lies with the parties who will forever and always retain a tax on housing. It's not up to us to liquidate the tax. So they say it's an unfair fare system. Yes, I can agree with that in many ways. But it doesn't get any better if you keep putting it on the system! If there had been any sense in this, you would now have begun to introduce some of the relief you are advertising for. I hear that the Minister of Finance now – it must be on the occasion of the elections, it too – advertises tax relief. But it must be the next major choice, because the relief, let's say in the next four years, will not be completed until the last year when it will be a choice, that is, in 2005. If the government party is concerned with tax relief, you should start with the current system – don't raise the tax base and raise the deduction. And I would like to ask the representatives of the government party if that is what you want to do, to start the reliefs with the NOK 1.5 billion you have advertised, already for 2002 – a lot has been said about what else you will do in the budget for 2002. This is a concrete question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e217	When you hear the intensity of some articles related to this matter, it would be thought that this was almost a be or not within Norwegian housing policy. So it's not. Norwegian housing policy has many significant challenges, in particular the fact that young people do not get into the housing market, which is, in fact, one of the most important. Had the right-hand side in Norway been able to show the same intensity of finding housing for young people, by repatriating social housing, by building rental homes, student housing, even low-income housing, or whatever it might be, so that they had an opportunity to enter the housing market, it would have been in some way proportional. So this is about a tax base. If you are in favour of or against housing taxes, this is a tax base that can be seen as reasonably based on what the housing is like. This is the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV have negotiated almost independently of what they think about housing taxes in general, and it is in fact such that the large size of Norwegian housing owners receives a significant tax relief on this tax system. It will also be that, with the largest dwellings, they have the largest income and the largest wealth, which makes it reasonable for them to contribute. When it is highlighted from the right that there is a strange phenomenon of housing taxation, this is, of course, the slightest hesitation, for Norway has less housing tax than almost all comparable countries. And that's how we want it to be! While it is reasonable for a person to pay taxes on the main dwellings, it is also reasonable that those with ordinary dwellings should avoid taxation. So when the right-hand side now uses this as a kind of mantra, this is of course essentially based on a political justification, and not on a scientific point of view. Norway is an exceptional country, a special tax country in that way, and we want that country to continue to be that way. The system that unfortunately does not get a majority today is a system that would have been operationally and socially fair. The main responsibility for this not going – there I actually agree with the right-hand side – is not the right-hand side. It is a pity that the mid parties have chosen to stand outside in order to obtain a tax base that would have been more correct. It's a shame that the Christian People's Party has chosen a model that, from any angle, is a model that would not have been feasible, and that would have led to still as great injustices as today's system. And it's a shame that the Center Party chose a model that wouldn't have been operational either. So the working party and SV have now come together. There is still hope that someone can reason during the evening, but unfortunately it doesn't look like that. That means that the housing tax system we have today, which is unfair, unfair and random in every respect, continues. SV and the Working Party have tried to find a solution that makes this better. I have to say that there is really a great responsibility for the middle parties who have chosen to stand outside of this and thus carry on an unfairness exclusively – probably – because it is approaching elections. That's what I think is regrettable, but it's still allowed to hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e228	It has been interesting to follow the debate. It has mainly been about some interesting exercises about who said and did what some years ago. Both Jensen and Burnde have been more concerned about the past and what has been in documents here and there. And that's interesting enough, maybe, for those of us who follow the debate in the hall. The reality for the voters out there is that you don't get tax relief. For the people of Akershus and Oslo in particular – but also many other places in the country – the reality is that they don't get a tax return from a few hundred dollars to several thousand dollars a year. That is the centre and Valgerd provides; that is the reality. And I think it's the baby parents -- at least the ones I'm talking to -- are interested in, not who said and did what many years ago. For Oslo, the situation is that 83 pst. by those who live in blocks, now pay house taxes. With the Government's proposal, 18 pst. do it. With the Workers' Party joining in the setting, 6 pst. do it. There are, therefore, considerable tax concessions for many in the capital. That's what's real. And then it's interesting to note that when it comes to the problem, it's not possible to get with the parties that talk the most about tax relief in this room, to make a not insignificant uplift for the population, especially in Oslo and Akershus. I also remember Valgerd's earlier promises and what she contributes to in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e239	The President will recall that in this Chamber it is common to use both the first name and the last name of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e242	First, the term ‘not to be taxed’. The point is that it's about keeping something more of your own income. With regard to the tax on the benefits of housing, it is not even a matter of own income; it is a notional income constructed by some bureaucrat at some point in time. Then it was actually necessary to take the word again to try to get the Workers' Party to answer not least the question that Foss' representative raised. I can understand that it can be unpleasant when the debate here has tried to produce it so that tax breaks are expected around the next turn, when there is evidence that a new tariff system will only be in place in 2005. With regard to the tax relief promised by the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party, is it such that they will be included in the next year's budget until the rate system is terminated, or is there something you promise in the next major election campaign, in four years? That question has not been answered and it should be answered before the debate ends. The other thing that has not been commented on is the 1997 Workers’ Party’s commitment to what is also stated in the recommendation, that the charging method must be known and that the housing tariffs must be publicly available. Is it not true that with the housing tax base that the Workers' Party has now established, with the gross living area, inspectors must enter the homes of people and measure up if you do not accept the self-declaration sent by the individual himself? And why has the promise made in 1997 been broken? The third question, which has not been answered, concerns the promise made in 1997, that until a new tariff system was put in place, housing charges should not be increased, because it was such a terrible unfair system. This has not been the case with the Workers' Party. Housing rates have increased each year in the four years that have passed. Why should voters believe in the Workers' Party more now in 2001 than in 1997 when it is said that they do not want to increase the housing tax? There is a great deal to say that the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party will increase housing rates on the first occasion. Is it also such that the housing tax system that will last until 2005 will contain the same inequalities as the current tariff system? The point is that we're going to continue a system that the Workers' Party has now clearly figured out is very unfair, for four to five years before you get another one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e257	I didn't really intend to take the floor anymore in this debate, but I felt a special need for it after the representative Rikke Lind's speech. I'm pretty watered down that there's been a direct personal attack on me from the workers' party, and I'm going to take it this time as well. Dag Terje Andersen made the point that it was about election fighting, but a more personalized election campaign game than what came from Rikke Lind's side, at least we haven't had in this debate until today. In fact, when it comes to the voters in our constituency -- it's not really so interesting for this whole assembly -- I think they'll be very happy if I from the Labour Party's side can get a clear signal today that the Workers' Party when the fall comes and the Christian People's Party together with the other party that's some of us, will propose a first step on the road to get rid of the benefit tax on their own housing -- a first step by half a billion -- will be on such a tax bill for those who have high housing costs in our region. I'm fully aware of what housing expenses people in this region are struggling with. We live there, and we know them. Hence, it's actually quite important, not just for people who live in this district, that we have a fair tax on the housing, and the most fair thing is actually to remove the benefit tax on their own housing. Can I then assume that Rikke Lind will at least support the Christian People's Party and the other parties when we propose to the cottage to take the first step on the road to remove the benefit tax, or was this just a contribution to try to tell who might be to blame in this matter? I have the impression that most of the workers' party representatives who have spoken are trying to place debt somewhere. I'm very clear that the Christian People's Party today has actually said no to a tax bill in the short term because we want a permanent tax bill that is going to remove the entire benefit tax on our own housing. We also see that one can't fulfill everything at the first budget management of the house, but we will promise that during the period we will remove it. And then I hope that at least I have Rikke Lind on board with me to help the people in the electoral district that we represent. Otherwise, I would like to add that when it comes to the Christian People's Party's priority in this matter, it has nothing to do with electoral struggle or electoral district. It's an old party decision that we've had in this period, but we haven't been able to comply, as we have for the next period, and as we now want to settle. So we're going to stand for what's our primary position in this case, and we're going to support only subsidiaryly something that can get rid of the worst kind of system that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e271	The representative Børge Burnde gave the impression that you have to enter the homes of people. No, you can't. A major reason why we want to use living space is that it's a known size for most people. For all newly traded dwellings during a relatively long period, the dwelling area is known through the housing documents. We're otherwise based on people making their own estimate of the size. That's why the living area will be known, and it'll be easy to relate to. I hope the representative Burnde is too good to give the impression that you're going in and looking at the tiles of people. There is nothing to do in the system presented by the Workers' Party for its part. On the other hand, there may be a problem in the system in which the representative Burne argues, due to the need to assess market value there. So we didn't think of that. We have put forward a system that provides significant relief. I note that this is not in line with what has been said, among other things. Right-hand side, and not from the Christian People's Party either. It is of interest to discuss pricing, etc., that the Right has proposed increased tariffs in 1982, in 1983, in 1984, in 1985, in 1986. Then the Right was out of government for a few years, came back in 1990, and it was proposed again for 1991. Then they were out of influence on the budget for a few years, and then they got influence on the budget for 1998, and it is right that the representative Burnde said that when it came to the budget for 1998, there was another increase, which the Right voted for. So the Right, with the exception of a year, I think, has actually voted for increased housing rates in all the years that they have had the opportunity to influence the budget since 1982. That might be reason to notice. However, the most interesting thing about today's debate is: The common thing in Stortinget is that if you don't get in touch with your principal view, you agree with what's the second best solution, what's closest to your vision. It is difficult to see it differently than that it is – let's say – a political tactical game that forms the basis for choosing not to join the second best solution, but it is based on continuing the weaknesses that exist today. What I have to say, unfortunately, is that the political tactical game results in the population having a lower rate system than they could have had if you had chosen a good solution, even though it was not the solution you would choose in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e284	Per-Christian Foss has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e287	The Minister of Finance does not answer — after third attempts — the question of why a tax relief promised in 2005 cannot be started in 2002. Then the Minister of Finance continues to distort history. It is true that the right in the 1980s voted for housing tax. This is because the party's attitude to housing tax was adopted at the 1992 national meeting. But it is then that there are some positions from the 1980s that the Workers' Party does not repeat either. I have e.g. not registered any suggestion to reduce opening times again. I could list a whole series of proposals in the residential area from the 1980s that the Workers' Party did not have in the 1990s. There's no great witchcraft, that! And the story is that in 1999, when we had an influence on the budget, no rate increase was adopted. In the autumn of 1997, in the 1998 budget, a tariff increase of half that had been proposed by the government was adopted. It wasn't good enough, but it was a step in the right direction. And the following year showed a better result: zero increase in the fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e296	I will also pursue a question that has not been answered either by the Minister of Finance or by the Workers' Party, and it is absolutely central to the discussion of relief in housing taxes. The Labour Party has throughout this debate tried to create the impression that the scheme they have now presented will provide considerable tax havens for people. However, at best — at best — it will not take place until 2005. That's a few more years. Does this mean that the Workers' Party will already, in the context of the presentation of the 2002 budget, make proposals for relief in the form of housing taxes? And will they follow it up in the budget for 2003 and in the budget for 2004 – if it is now that the Labour Party is still in government, then? There is still no guarantee of that. The question is: if the Workers' Party is now so overly overweight to spend SEK 1.5 billion on facilitating the tax on housing benefits, why can't they now say that there are some reliefs that will be given to the Norwegian people already in connection with the budget for the harvest? Why should we say that this may not happen until 2005? If you can't promise tax laws before that, I don't believe that the intentions of NOK 1.5 billion in tax bills are there at all. That's why it would be interesting to get a clarification. There are some of us who every year propose reliefs in housing taxes with a view to abolishing it – every year. Therefore, it would be much more interesting to hear when the Workers' Party intends to propose the first crown in tax bills on dwellings. What year is it coming? I would very much like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e310	It is strange to listen to the Minister of Finance: when it comes to the responsibility to vote subsidiaryly, there is a party other than the Labour Party. Does not the Labour Party have responsibility for voting subsidiaryly? And especially after the challenge from Rikke Lind, I had expected that the Labour Party had answered the question that was asked. Would you like to join the chat room for this change, or would you like to join it? One actually doesn't respond to it. Rikke Lind has gone out of the hall - wrap around with claims and then goes! And no one else from the Labour Party answers that either. If a desire to improve for those who own dwellings is responsible for voting subsidiaryly only on a lot other than the Labour Party? Or does the Labour Party actually have an own responsibility for having a decision here in the Chamber? The finance minister said something about the tactic of the other parties. What about the Workers' Party? Are they completely clean and clear here? - I see the Minister of Finance nodding. For me, at least what has come out here in this room in posts from the Labour Party is not proof that there is something else in mind. The Christian People's Party will come up with suggestions for the fall. Is that what Rikke Lind wants to vote for? Will the Labour Party vote for it? We don't get any answers, and the voters will notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e317	Mr. Brende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e320	This I think is really embarrassing. There have been several rounds since our fiscal spokesman, Per-Christian Foss, challenged the Minister of Finance. Is it true that when he has worked around with promises of SEK 1.5 billion in relief in housing taxes – and it is now documented that this is what he has been thinking after 2005 – that this is just a mouthache? Or is it that, until 2005, the Workers' Party will at least be able to stand up to what they have said in the Chamber here, and already in the autumn budget, should we take the first step towards reducing the housing tax by DKK 1.5 billion? Is this just an electoral bottle sent out, and is the real policy that has been in place for the last two years, that of a massive increase in the tax on housing? I think we now need to get a clear answer from the Workers' Party: Is this the promise that has been made today about SEK 1.5 billion in reliefs in housing taxes, only after 2004, or does it apply from the fall of? Is the small script that this is a campaign game for the next big game?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e328	I have to say that this last line exchange and the last post has been quite strange. We're discussing a tax system that we want to be fair, and it's in connection with the conversion of a tax system that one here is talking about that one could get 1.5 billion dollars in relief in the total housing tax. What the majority have announced here is that it rejects this proposal that can form the basis for that kind of tax relief, because we're putting in the bottom line that we're going to have a tax system where the individual also pays according to ability. For the largest dwellings, it means a tax tightening that is part of the profile that we use for our policies. I think it's quite strange when the representative, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, invites you to a decision to wind up the tax on benefits and takes up this proposal without putting it in context, which I assume the Christian People's Party intends to do. For the Christian People's Party, there is no intention of abolishing the property tax or property tax. And how is the relationship between these two things going to be? Will the tax increase here? How's that drawing going to be? You don't say a word about it. If you look at countries that do not have tax advantages, you will see that there is no deduction for interest on mortgages. In other contexts, there is talk of symmetry in fiscal policy – where one has income and where one has expenditure, it has to be balanced. Does it mean, for example, that the Christian People's Party will also liquidate the possibility of deducting housing interest? For the community, a heavy tax subsidy is paid to most residents. We pay tax subsidies by approx. SEK 7.8 billion, while the benefit tax amounts to between SEK 1.5 and 2 billion. It's the contexts that are not described by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e335	Siv Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e338	Now the cats came out of the bag. If the Workers' Party is behind what the Workers' Party's tax-policy spokespersons have just said, it means that there is no room for relief in the housing tax from the Workers' Party in the next period. In addition, Britt Hildeng said that we are discussing the tax system, and one could almost get the impression of what she said, that the tax relief of SEK 1.5 billion was such an almost unfortunate side effect of making changes to the tax system. I think that's pretty interesting to notice. But the finance minister, and the fiscal spokesman and head of the finance committee, Dag Terje Andersen, have gone very high in this debate, not necessarily to talk about the tax system itself, but to talk about the need for relief in housing taxes. Here are different signals. I now think that the Minister of Finance must get on the road and clarify what the Government's policy is in this area, because now it is very unclear whether one wants tax relief, not tax relief – or whether it is the taxation system or the tax itself that is most important for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e343	As a case-speaker, Valgerd Reply City Haugland still gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e347	Thank you, President! I would like to remind Britt Hildeng that the reason I took the floor at all in this round was the challenge of the employee party representative Rikke Lind to me personally, and here I have tried to challenge the Labour Party, but still we have not received an answer. So I would like to point out something that Britt Hildeng, who knows very well, that we have actually put forward an alternative pricing system, which is in the setting. Of course, it has to go back to the Government for an arrangement, before you can put in a complete system, we realize that. Nevertheless, its implementation may take less time than these years needed for the system that the Government itself has set up. I invite the Workers' Party to subsidize our proposal for the use of insurance tariffs, which we promote with the Left. In fact, the Christian People's Party has no idea that one should take from people the right to interest deduction. We actually mean that getting housing in our country is very expensive, and taking that right from those who get housing, we have no plans. Otherwise, we have not heard that someone from the Labour Party has also addressed these issues, neither in the setting nor when they have had the word today. But I would still like to respond on behalf of the Christian People's Party to the specific challenge I have received from Britt Hildeng. I would like to repeat what some of us have asked for and ask for a little more clarification: since one challenges another party on alternative solutions and on alternative contributions, it would have been a good thing that one had received an answer from the party that is actually with the government power, and that has today arranged that they really want to change the tax system, whether or not they want to vote subsidiaryly. We have not received an answer to that. Are they willing to support proposals to remove the benefit tax on their own property from the cottage of? They have not responded. The challenge has been given to all of us: we are the ones who are using tactics, and we are the ones who are not responsible here. But the government's response to what they want if they're forced to vote subsidiaryly, so we don't get that. We can only note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e360	The answer to the questions from the representatives Burnde and Jensen is in the position. What these are proposals for legislative changes is the taxation system. It is neither proposed that we should confirm that we should have a benefit tax or that we should not have a benefit tax, for example. It is therefore possible to be in favour of the tax system itself for those who believe that it should not be a benefit tax. What we're invited to make a decision about is the system of fixing the value of housing. I understand that the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party would like to talk about something else, and that they would rather talk about the tax and tax levels, but it is tax that is now being treated, which is clear from the position. The thing that is clear in the setting, which is clear, is that there is no house tax on dwellings up to 110 m2. It is presented as a binding wording in the premise of the legal basis that lies here. But it will, for example. be possible for that way of appreciating the system – i.e. voting for the largest minority proposal in the position – also for those who might think that the basis would be 120 m2 instead of 110 m2, because it does not appear as part of the legal text. But for those who have submitted this legal text, it is a premise that there should be no tax for less than 110 m2. So to the question from the case rapporteur about why we cannot vote subsidiaryly for insurance tax. With respect to reporting: I heard the rapporteur’s interpretation of the idea of insurance tariff, where it included. on questions in the reply box I was told that she does not think there are as many houses that do not have a NOK amount as an insurance tax. This matter has been dealt with this year after year, and extensive investigations have been carried out on the basis of the proposals here, and the fact that the Stortinget would then instead adopt a new idea, which will then be sent out to new hearings, to new assessments and new analyses, where one does not even know how many do not have the basis for the tax system, reminds us that it is a proposal that is made just to have something to put forward, because one will not take responsibility for creating a fairer system of taxation than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e369	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e383	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e394	Developments on Norwegian pedestal have in many ways come to a crossroads, with the need for restructuring both in order to exploit new and existing fields on the pedestal and also in order to maintain and further develop Norwegian expertise in an international oil and gas economy. With this as a starting point, Stortinget has treated both St.meld. No 39 for 1999-2000 and St.prp. No 36 for 2000-2001, inter alia: the basis for a partial privatisation of Statoil was laid down and an open sale of SDE shares. In parallel, the Government, in line with the wishes of the Storting, has reviewed the tax system for the sector. Petroleum resources provide very high rents. There are resources belonging to the Norwegian people, and it is therefore the responsibility of the Norwegian authorities to manage these resources in such a way that the creation of value added contributes to ensuring the well-being and employment of the country. Through the tax system and the EEAS, the Government will ensure that a large proportion of the revenue from the petroleum activity falls to the Community. The government underlines in the proposition that with the proposed restructuring of the EEAS, it means that the tax system will become an even more important instrument in the future than before in order to capture the extraordinary return on the extractive activities. There has traditionally been a broad and stable political consensus on our oil policy, both in terms of extraction and in terms of the tax system. This has been important in order to ensure the stability and predictability of an establishment with high investment costs and which must necessarily work in a very long time perspective. When changing some of the framework conditions, it is important that this be done in as much understanding of the oil industry as possible, while at the same time there is such a strong political majority behind the changes that it can guarantee predictability in this area. This, together with an obligation to secure as much of the value creation as possible for the Norwegian people, has been decisive for the government's work. In the light of the suspension of the Petroleum Tax Committee, following dialogue with industry organisations and a cross-political reference group, the Government presented its proposal on changes in petroleum taxation. The government's proposal involves a tax tightening of the oil companies of 800 million. kr, and this is done by addressing some obvious weaknesses in today's tax system. The distortions of the current system can be summed up by the fact that the high cap rate combined with the redundancy of deductions does not provide sufficient incentives for cost awareness, while the possibilities of deducting financial costs, together with access to high loan financing, may erode the tax base of the petroleum activity. The system for the allocation of net financial costs leads, inter alia, to: that base companies may have lower costs than other companies outside the base and provide strong tax incentives to invest in other activities within the base company. Similarly, the allocation rules allow for investments, establishments or acquisitions that are economically profitable but not necessarily socio-economically viable. The Ministry points out that such settlements of activities outside the socket, not only on land, but also in relation to the rest of the world and foreign operations, are likely to increase in the future. Against this background, the Government proposes changes to the rules for the allocation of financial expenditure. The financial expenditure of the companies shall no longer be broken down by pre-tax net income, but by asset values on the basis of the base and the country respectively. In this context, there has been a discussion of the asset values to be based on accounting values or tax values. The government proposes that tax values should be taken into account, including: in the light of the extremely favourable depreciation rules available. Furthermore, for the ministry, it has been a decisive criterion for the choice of the valuation principle that the maximum interest deduction in the special tax base should not be affected by whether or not a limited liability company operates outside the base. The Ministry points out that this consideration is largely taken into account by a distribution rule based on tax-depreciation values, but not if accounting values are used. The entire Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, has given its support to the Government's proposal at this point. The government also proposes that the current possibilities of deducting half of the land deficit against general income on the pedestal be abolished. The change is justified by the need to collect the capital income in order to prevent a weakening of the tax base on the socket by deducting deficits unrelated to such activities. However, the majority in the Committee, all without SV, want to maintain the current system. The majority believe that such protection is most important in relation to the special tax base, where the large differences in the tax rate provide strong motivation for bringing expenditure to the base district and income to land. However, with regard to the general tax base, the majority considers that the desire to hedge capital income must be seen in relation to the need to consolidate deficits with different parts of the business. Such a consolidation option helps to reduce the risk to businesses active both on the ground and on land. In the work of the Committee, the Workers' Party has accepted this argument, also in the light of the wish for as broad an agreement as possible on oil taxation. In order to get the most out of further production on the base, it is important that more companies, for example: those with special competence to develop small fields and to extract the residues in existing fields are given the opportunity to do so. It is therefore important to reduce tax barriers to entry for new actors. Today, there are big differences between those companies that are in the tax position and those that are not. By introducing a rule on the carry-over of losses on the basis of general and special taxes and allowing for the transfer of losses to other companies in the event of transfers of activities on the base, this entry barrier is reduced. These proposals have also been fully endorsed by the Committee. Oil taxation is difficult and complicated, but good tax rules in this area are absolutely essential for us to be able to reap together the resources with which we have been blessed. If we are to benefit in the future from the possibilities we have here, it is vital that we have a broad consensus on how these values are to be extracted. The work done by the Government and the inter-political resource groups has been crucial for us today to have a very broad political structure for the proposal that is now being promoted by the Committee. At most of the points, there's an overall committee that's behind it. In addition, there is absolute agreement between the Workers' Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on all points. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e428	For the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, the changes in the petroleum tax have had two main objectives: Firstly, the changes should not lead to a weakening of the competition situation of the Norwegian socket. Secondly, the changes must be adopted in spring with the broadest political basis possible. This is because of the changes that have been made in the past, with the decision on the stock exchange listing of Statoil and the sale of parts of HEAD. This last point has also been a major contributor to the fact that we from the centre have been relatively easy to negotiate with, because we saw it as decisive to create peace and clarity in what systems will be in force in the years to come. Let me also add that I see it as positive for the base's competitive situation that there has been and should be a long time between each time the petroleum tax is being debated. This provides a reasonable framework conditions. I have been in the reference group who assessed the proposals of the Ministry of Finance, which were sent out on a hearing just before Easter. The changes that are now being proposed will give us a better structure. At the same time, several of the objections raised by both the industry and the members of the reference group were taken into account. And there's a big difference in what Odelstinget presented today, and the original submitted the Ministry of Finance sent out on the phone. There was a proposal that, in my opinion, would weaken the relative competitive Norwegian base. In particular, it would be unfortunate to make a decision on this right before the hall in Statoil and DIEE. The proposal we are now dealing with takes account of two of the main objections of the Petroleum Tax Selection in relation to the current tax system. The distribution rules for financial items and the trough are applicable to reduce the tax limitations in relation to new activities that will enter the Norwegian capital. In particular, the need to produce deficits with interest rates could help several new companies find Norwegian sockets interesting. I think it is right that the new rules will prevent the financial costs associated with business outside the Norwegian base from being deducted from the capital income. It has been discussed whether the distribution should be made according to tax-depreciated values or by arithmetic rate. I have attended and accepted that tax-depreciated values should be taken into account when, at the same time, and I stress it, it is adjusted by the fact that it is not necessary for an extractive company operating outside the Norwegian base to have a maximum debt under the so-called thin capitalisation rule in order to obtain a maximum interest deduction against the socket. The majority of the Committee agrees with this conversion. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the fact that during the management of the Committee, a change has been made from the Ministry when it is necessary to subtract a deficit from arable land. I would like to say quite frankly that the Ministry of Finance in this context has our sound levels in relation to the Committee's signal, and that this will enable us to maintain the system as a debt today. It will reduce the risk to the company, as the case-speaker did well. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e449	I am not very sure that the time available for handling this case meets all the ideal requirements for proper handling of the case. If the content of the proposition had been more consistent with the announced content, namely a full review and revision of the entire petroleum tax area, the matter could hardly have been dealt with on this side of the summer. Treatment in the Ministry of Finance has been used for a long time. One has used a – let's call it – parliamentary bastard in the form of a reference group. Anyway, the proposition has become transparent and not so very controversial either, perhaps primarily because it contains very few changes. But then you also end up with a proposition that doesn't cancel out the price of a tax regime that can be as robust and durable as the purpose was initially. However, it is striking that even the few changes proposed do not appear to have been sufficiently addressed. The petroleum industry itself has some strong objections to two of its proposals. These are also the proposals which have been made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Financial items are proposed by the Government to be distributed between land and socket activities according to the depreciation value of the assets of land and socket operations. Today, the items are allocated in the same ratio as the net income is allocated between country and base. This change has the clearest tax aggravating effect of the proposals in the proposal. The effect is, despite the length of treatment in the department, not sufficiently determined. Petroleum industry itself claims that the change will have a much more tax-intensive effect than the Government has foreseen. Such a lack of clarity as to the impact of the proposal itself suggests that the proposal should be rejected until further consideration has been made. On the part of the Progress Party, we would argue that the proposed change would have an unreasonable effect on the purchase and sale of licences on the base, as these are normally sold with tax continuity. The change is also inconsistent with the existing restriction on interest rates in the Petroleum Tax Act. Nor is it unreasonable to assume that the proposal implies that a greater proportion of the company's debt interest rate than that reflecting the real distribution will be taxed into the country's activities. As a result, there is a division of financial items so that more of the income is subject to special taxes. The Progress Party will reject this proposal. However, we are pleased that the majority of the committee, all with the exception of SV, has rejected the Government's proposal to abolish the rule that gives the right to deduction of general income on the base for up to half of deficits incurred in land-based activities. Thus, there is still a degree of consolidation in place, in line with the tax system. The government’s proposal, in particular, along with the proposal on the allocation of financial items – which unfortunately gets a majority – would scare new players away from Norwegian pedestal, and could also help to scare away those who are already there today. In conclusion, I would like to draw the attention to the Progress Party as the main shortcomings of the proposition. It is not in the vicinity of discussing whether the framework conditions on Norwegian base will be attractive enough for internationally competing oil companies now or in the future. We therefore propose an overview of the framework conditions for the petroleum sector on competing bases and territories. We can't have a tax system that over time drains Norwegian capital for activity. We are also asking for proposals for systems of varying marginal taxes in the petroleum sector to be examined and presented, depending on the oil price, so as to reduce marginal taxes when petroleum prices are low. High gross taxes such as CO2 taxes and production taxes must be removed from the Norwegian base. I will bring up the proposals of the Advance Party as they appear in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e466	The representative, Siv Jensen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e469	Let me start by saying why this case came up at all, because there's in itself a style study in how lobbying can actually beat both ways. When oil prices were $9 in the barrel, the oil companies came here in the stream and told me that now they needed tax relief, because now the base was so unattractive. So the bulk of the population went into the budget and opened up to review the tax system on the basis of the oil companies' intentions or the desire to receive tax relief. And the Petroleum Tax Committee, when it was actually found, was huge structural weaknesses in the petroleum tax system and not necessarily what the oil companies asked for. This is actually a style study of how the petroleum tax system is – and it is actually one of the most important – that it is robust. This means that it must be possible to have the same tax system regardless of the large fluctuations in the commodity price that this depends on. In this way I have to say that SV is essentially very satisfied with what is available here, because the structure of this has the robustness that I see as one of the most important things. Let me make a couple of comments anyway, because we have a couple of these. I can immediately take up the suggestions SV has in the setting, so that it has been done. The most important thing for SV is to make sure that you have a tax level that is so high that it is close to the pain limit. This may sound a bit brutal, but it's clear that this is a commodity given to the nation by a geological randomness, and that means that the rent is to be paid to the Norwegian people and not to the oil company. This is something most people agree on. That's why we also have a 50 pst. extra tax on the cap, precisely because the rent is to be drawn into the treasury. But that means, from the point of view of SV, that it is particularly at two points that we have chosen to derogate from this principle by providing less restrictive conditions than the structure would actually require, and that is at these two points SV have different proposals. The reason why we're going to have this high tax level in the North Sea is, of course, because the price of this commodity is not in any reasonable proportion to the cost of winning it, which means that you can get a basic interest income that is very high. So in spite of the tax system we have, when the oil price is as high as it was in the past, and the dollar price is as high as it has been, the oil companies generate significant revenues. Some of these include: The progress party I have noticed, fears that the competitiveness of the Norwegian base would not be present. This is a claim that is often made, especially on the part of the oil companies, but there is nothing to suggest that the competitiveness of the Norwegian base is weakened. On the contrary, in the case of licences awarded, there has still been a significant interest from all oil companies in participating. In the SV's view, the tax system should then be neutral. This means that it should not contribute to overinvestment, and that means that we should also take care of the relationship between land and the base. Because it is clear that when you have such a favourable way to get big profits, by investing in the North Sea instead of investing in land, it can quickly turn investment away from the mainland economy. We've also seen that over the last few years. In fact, for a few years, the investments in the North Sea have been astronomical 70-80 billion kroner, which of course contribute to lower investment flows to the rest of the Norwegian economy. What is also important for SV is that it has a profile related to the environment that enables the tax system to take environmental considerations both on the tax side and, of course, on the tax side. The two points where SV distinguishes from the majority position relate to the principle that oil companies are given more favourable terms attached to the depreciation rules for investment on the socket, and also to the possibility of calculating interest on the carry-over of general income deficits on the socket, which means favouring investment on the base rather than on land. In our view, both parts will result in a higher level of investment in the socket than socio-economic profitability, at the expense of investment and resource use in mainland Norway. These are important points for SV, namely that if you create a structure that SV agrees with, this means that you do not have to go through with a simple exception at first, so as to ease the tax system. We agree with the structure of this tax system proposed by the Petroleum Tax Committee and passed on by the Department. We therefore find it strange to deviate from the principle in these two important areas. I would like to say that I broadly agree with the position that exists, and I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget who still believe that there should be a significant level of taxation for the companies operating on the base and that there should be a difference between the level of taxation of the mainland economy and that of the base industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e492	Øystein Djupedal then drew up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e495	The size is currently addressing one of several issues that are involved in a major effort to bring up-to-date and tailor-made policies to meet the challenges of the petroleum sector. Through the treatment of the oil and gas messages, Stortinget agreed to important adjustments to make Norwegian cap more attractive to both small and large players. It provided a more predictable and attractive framework for industry. The listing of Statoil and the sale of SøE shares have contributed to the same. For the Left, it was important in this respect to contribute to a broad and robust compromise in Stortinget. We got that through the solution that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left negotiated. The compromise provided the basis for the further development of Statoil and for a more efficient use of the resources on Norwegian soil. The aim of the left has been that, through the case we are dealing with today in the field of petroleum taxes, we should contribute to the long-term and good framework conditions for the industry. It is therefore positive that there is also a broad compromise on this issue behind the necessary system changes. Taxes have not increased in a way that impairs competitiveness and peace is ensured around the tax system. As you can see today, there is a much better starting point than what was the Government's arrangement, which was out at the hearing. The Norwegian petroleum tax system has been robust and stable for a long time and this stability and long-termity continues as a competitive advantage of the Norwegian cap. There has been a dilemma in the treatment of the issue of the deduction of non-Norwegian capital expenditure. It has been desirable to limit the deduction, while not discriminating, for example, the Hydro industrial locomotive. Hydro is the company that would have suffered the most if we had implemented a pure-bred principle that the financial costs of land-based activities could not be paid against the income on Norwegian base. In the setting this has been given a good solution. The treatment of the oil and gas notification, partial privatisation and listing of Statoil, the sale of shares in the oil and gas sector, as well as changes in petroleum taxation have together contributed to good and predictable framework conditions under which industry can live well. This also provides a basis for good use of resources and for maintaining the competitiveness of Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e514	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 will be processed together. [[Footing, see page 527]] - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e539	I do not think there is as much temperature in this case as in the previous cases, but it is still an important matter. Odelstingen is currently examining changes in the rules on private pensions in employment. The proposals make the rules more flexible and may help several undertakings set up such schemes for their employees. A new rule is adopted in the Post-Insurance Pension Act which allows a pension scheme to provide for deposits to be up to a maximum of 25 p.m. in a single year. higher or lower than that laid down in the deposit plan. It provides flexibility for enterprises, which should then lower the threshold for the conclusion of binding occupational retirement provision agreements. It may in turn reduce the class distinction between those who currently have occupational pensions and those who do not have occupational pensions. It will also provide greater opportunities to adapt the deposits, for example: to the economy of the enterprise each year. The Committee also opens up parallel arrangements for pension contributions and occupational pensions. This implies that an entity may have both a pension scheme and a pension scheme. It's an innovation. This legislation will therefore provide us with a very modern legislation relating to pensions. The government does not open up combined schemes, but for parallel ones, despite the fact that a number of hearing bodies have intervened to open them up to combined ones. The majority open up the possibility for a contribution pension to be added to the top of a defined benefit pension. It should be done in such a way that all employees covered by a benefit component are also covered by a contribution component. In this case, the top deposit may provide for annual negotiations on variable deposits, while the overall performance could provide a kind of basic security for members related to a particular level of performance. It's a fact that a number of companies have a corporate pension, a defined benefit pension, which guarantees 60 pst. of the previous salary when you retire. In public, you have 67 pst. the proportion of compensation, and now the break point has also been lifted in public pensions. What can then be done by opening up combined schemes is building on the 60 p.m. scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, with a defined contribution scheme, so that in the private sector too, what is in the public sector can start to approach. It is a very good system that can improve the levels of compensation for workers in the private sector as well. In fact, large Norwegian companies only have 60 pst. degree of compensation. So with such a system, you can get into a better order, even if you're not guaranteed 67 pst. But it's the contribution pension on top that makes you get a better solution. The majority note that the Ministry considers that combined schemes should be examined at a later stage. The majority, on the other hand, believe that combined schemes should be opened up and ask the Ministry to come back with proposals in connection with the notified credit notification in the autumn. I would like the Minister of Finance, if he intends to take the floor, to confirm that he is prepared to do so. As part of the treatment of the 2001 government budget, fiscal restraints were adopted for contribution funds and deposit funds, as well as continuing insurance. The Ministry of Finance proposes significant additional fiscal constraints up to 2004. It is disappointing and they believe that it should be adopted here and now. Fortunately, the Committee considers that no further fiscal restrictions should be imposed on contribution funds and deposit funds in addition to those implemented for 2001. And it has also joined the Workers' Party. It's a pleasure. The problem is that this has been promised in the past. One month before the submission of the State budget last autumn, the Committee gave its opinion on occupational pensions. Then the majority also promised that there would be no tightening of the tax aspects of the contribution funds. A month later, it was proposed and adopted in Stortinget. But you have to bring what is. At least this is a pious wish of a majority. Now the Workers' Party is also part of the majority, so it may seem a little stronger – it wasn't the Workers' Party on last autumn, it should be mentioned. An overall committee requests that the tax rules on contribution funds and deposit funds be further assessed in the context of the work of modernising life assurance rules under the Banking Law Commission. It opens up the possibility for enterprises to also influence the placement of pension capital by the financial institution, so-called collective investment funds – to have a word in the design of how the funds are invested for occupational retirement provision. I think that's a proper reform, if you do it the right way. The legislative proposal also assesses the need for changes in the framework conditions of life insurance companies. The development of the savings market and the future competitive situation of Norwegian life insurance companies indicate that life insurance companies also have access to the provision of capitalisation products. Today, companies only have the opportunity to offer such products in connection with some tax-advanced pension schemes. The majority of the Committee considers that provision should be made for life insurance companies to manage pension capital without imposing any conditions on management the guarantee of return. The majority emphasise the professional legal assessments of the Governor of the Banking Law Commission, Professor Erling Selvig, referred to in the Proposition. In a letter dated 14 December 2000 to the Ministry of Finance, the Banking Authority pointed out, inter alia, that: countries such as the United Kingdom, Ireland and Luxembourg provide for the possibility for life insurance companies to manage pension schemes without the provision of guarantees of return to the administration. The interpretations of EU legislation by these countries appear to be well adapted to the objective of equivalent conditions of competition between different types of financial institutions, both nationally and abroad. However, I note that the Ministry wants to carry out further regulatory surveys at this point in selected EU countries. The majority, on the other hand, place great emphasis on the overall acceptance of the Hope Committee that Norwegian financial institutions should have equivalent competitive relationships with foreign competitors. In view of this, the majority consider that it is a central objective that Norwegian life insurance companies do not have a lower chance of managing pension capital for products without interest rate guarantee regulated by the Pensions Act than competitors operating from one of the above-mentioned EU countries. In view of the highest possible level of competition between foreign and domestic actors for products regulated by the Post-Insurance Pensions Act, the majority of the Committee requests that professional legal investigation and further international screening be given the highest priority. A clear signal has been given that this is also being opened, and that it should be done as soon as possible. If the Minister of Finance is going to take the floor, I would also ask for a comment on how he intends to follow up the comments of the Committee on Budgets on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e573	There's been a lot of pension issues in Stortinget lately, and that's good. Because it is high time that the 900,000 employees who do not currently have any pension schemes in addition to social security could also have such opportunities. Part of the proposals we are considering today is a follow-up to Stortingen's treatment of the deposit pension law. I refer you to the rapporteur's articles, but I will get to some points in the setting. In Ot.prp. No 42 for 2000-2001 the Government proposes a collective investment fund without the undertaking having any obligation to ensure employees against the negative result of capital management, so-called zero guarantee. This means that the value of the capital always depends on the market values of the assets included in the investment portfolio. The legislative proposal allows the pension capital of members approaching the retirement age to be transferred to a separate investment portfolio that is subject to less risk than the portfolio of the other members. The government also proposes that, when workers are at risk, employees should also be entitled to the return. The return shall therefore be wholly due to the members. When workers are required to bear the risk, the Workers' Party considers it reasonable that employees also have an influence over investment decisions. We therefore propose that the Steering Group be heard and that, in collective investment funds schemes, a steering group be set up, even if there are less than 15 members, which is otherwise required. It is good that a majority in the committee ends up doing so. However, the Labour Party believes that the regime proposed by the Government earlier, and for which there was no majority, was a better arrangement than that now adopted. It allowed both employees to be more secure and businesses to reduce their pension costs if they managed the capital successfully. When the zero guarantee scheme was not adopted, we believe it is reasonable that employees get the full benefit when they are the ones who take the risk, and we are pleased that we get the majority for it. In the regulation of insurance activities, the majority, consisting of the central parties, the Right and the Progressive Party, are highly concerned with the competitive situation of insurance companies. We in the Labour Party are also concerned about this, but at the same time we are committed to securing consumers. It's for those arrangements that exist. It is therefore important that the company's activities are transparent and easily controlled. The ability to control is important to ensure that the money is managed in a sensible manner that does not cause undue risk to customers or employees. A specific issue addressed in the proposition is the requirements to be imposed on the management of pension capital by insurance corporations. The main question will be whether companies should be able to manage the pension capital without any return guarantee. A majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party and the SV, considers that life insurance companies should be able to manage the pension capital without requiring a return guarantee. The majority believe that companies will face a competitively difficult situation if they do not have such an opportunity. The working party believes that providing management of pension capital without a return guarantee is in the grey zone in relation to the EU Life assurance Directive. In addition, we believe that the situation is not so urgent that there is no time to consider this in detail, and that it would be unwise to make hasty conclusions now. Until now, life insurance companies have had to provide a guarantee of 3 pst. annual in return. Now the government proposes to ease the demands, and has presented three proposals. There is a majority for these proposals, but the majority, all except the Workers' Party and the SV, want more liberal practices related to the different products. The Labour Party considers that Norway’s EEA obligations do not provide for more liberal practices than for companies to provide a guarantee against a specific and specified risk. In the case of Ot.prp. No 78, the Government proposes that undertakings be able to decide that the deposits should be up to 25 p.m. higher or lower than a defined normal level in a given year. Workers must be informed of changes of importance in the deposit plan and the management board should deal with such changes. It ends up with a unanimous committee. The working party has previously opposed this and will stress the importance of informing employees of changes in the deposit plan so that they have a good overview of their pension entitlements at all times. We would also point out that through agreements, the social partners can limit the ability of enterprises to change their deposits from year to year. The Committee is not in favour of tightening the tax rules but asks that the tax rules on contribution funds and deposit funds be further assessed in the context of the modernisation of life assurance rules under the Banking Law Commission. The majority have previously decided that parallel arrangements should be allowed and that the Government should come back with legislative proposals that allowed this. The majority also asked the Government to come back with an assessment of the possibility of adding a contribution pension to the top of a defined benefit pension. The working party opposed the possibility of parallel arrangements. We thought it would be difficult to ensure equal treatment if the employees are not members of the same scheme, but in parallel schemes based on different principles. These include: not desirable to allow for a period of time for those who have worked in the enterprise and new employees to be offered different pension schemes. In the proposal, the Government has promoted three different combinations of guidelines for parallel schemes supported by the Committee, with the exception of SV, with one change. Indeed, the majority believe that the social partners of each enterprise should be able to agree which of the pension schemes a group of employees should be part of. The parties shall not be able to conclude agreements which result in unfair discrimination between the individual groups of workers. This is important for the Workers' Party. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Workers' Party and the SV, continue to be in favour of combined arrangements despite the fact that the credit supervision considers that it is not possible to ensure equal treatment of employees. The working party continues to oppose the opening of combined schemes, because it is impossible to impose requirements on combined and parallel pension schemes providing for non-discrimination in general and that the principle of proportionality is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e618	In the course of the Grand Duchy's treatment of the deposit pension law in the autumn of 2000, the Government was asked on a number of points to prepare adjusted legislative proposals or to make further assessments. Against this background, the Government promoted legislative proposals on 2 March of this year, such as: means that funds relating to old-age pensions in defined contribution schemes and one-off old-age pensions may be managed by collective investment funds and that the unearned contribution reserve and survivors' pensions may be managed by investment funds of the undertaking. In line with the timetable given by Stortinget, the Government also promoted proposals on 27 April to respond to the other requests made by Stortingen, including: relating to the design of annual deposits in a defined contribution scheme, the possibility of having parallel pension schemes and the possibility of closing a defined benefit pension upon transition to a defined contribution scheme. An assessment was also made of the possibility of comparing deposit and benefit schemes and an assessment of hybrid schemes. I am pleased that, in the two positions, the Finance Committee has essentially joined the Government's proposals. At the same time, I have noticed that on some points the majority of the Committee has adopted a somewhat different view from that outlined in the bill. In particular, a majority of the members of the Financial Committee are in favour of opening up combined arrangements at an earlier date than proposed. This issue will be followed up. I can also assure you that the recommendation of the Committee of the Regions to notify the monitoring of the international practice of EU legislation corresponding to the Norwegian class code class V will be given high priority, of course will also be followed. I have also noticed that the Committee on Finance believes that no further fiscal tightening should be made for contribution funds and deposit funds, as outlined, as of the 2004 income year. I intend to further assess the tax rules on contribution and deposit funds in the context of the follow-up to the next Banking Law Commission investigation. Finally, I would like to remind you that for several years a significant effort has been made to modernise the legislation on collective pension schemes in tax-friendly employment. The proposals we are discussing here today are elements of this process. In my opinion, we have managed to create a timely, efficient and flexible framework that allows for more people to have a pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e633	No more people have asked for the floor in Case No. 3 and 4. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are processed together. [[Vitation, see pages 529 and 531]] - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e658	Since these two matters deal with two different aspects, I will take them for myself one by one. The first case contains proposals for laws amending the Securities Trading Act to include derivatives of goods in the term «financial instruments». There are a number of commodity derivative markets where there are Norwegian investors and intermediaries, for example: grain derivatives, aluminium derivatives, freight rate derivatives and oil derivatives. The market places for these are located abroad. The power derivative market is currently the only commodity derivative market with a market place in Norway. The Financial Committee is essentially in agreement with the Ministry's assessments in this matter. The Committee has no objections, either to the regulatory need or to the regulatory form. In the case of trade rules, the Committee has allowed itself to stress that the rules on unfair commercial practices and fair trading in the Securities Trading Act § 2-5 will apply in the case of trading in or in the case of activities principally related to derivatives of goods. Nor does the Committee object to the regulation of the intermediary function and other investment services or to the regulation of the market place function. The majority of the Committee departs from the Ministry's proposal as regards the netting rules. Already during Odelsting's treatment of the stock exchange law, Innst. O. No 3 for 2000-2001, the majority of the Committee pointed out the need for the introduction of netting rules, or netting, for power derivatives. This was in the context of the liberalisation of the energy market in Europe, leading to an increase in the number of competitors for Norwegian operators. For Norwegian actors wishing to trade with non-resident companies, the lack of regulatory regulation on settlement and clearing means that they receive a higher capital adequacy requirement than their foreign competitors, or that foreign companies do not want to trade with Norwegian companies at all because of lack of legal regulation. The majority of the Committee then requested that the Securities Trading Act be amended to ensure this. The Committee believes that the Government has not followed up previous decisions by drawing up regulations. The government's proposal provides for limited access to set-off and for the Securities Trading Act § 10-1 to apply only to derivatives of goods that have been settled with the assistance of a clearing house and to reverse the Storting's treatment of the stock exchange law, which simply opens up the possibility of extending the provision to all financial derivatives of goods. The Committee considers that this could be unfortunate for Norwegian financial institutions and Norwegian users of the derivatives market, in particular the power companies. Both financial and non-financial actors on the Norwegian power market need to use the full range of financial product derivatives, not only those quoted or cleared via the clearing house. If the actors are not to be able to conclude binding netting agreements for their trade in financial derivatives between two out-of-exchange parties, they risk meeting higher margin and higher price requirements than their Nordic competitors do. Most of the hearing bodies concerned have expressed support for the extension of the netting provision to financial derivatives. The majority therefore proposes to adopt right of set-off directly in the law and that the application of the rules on set-off of derivatives of goods should take place no later than 1 July of this year. With regard to the issue of reporting obligations, the Committee has noted that, on a number of occasions, the legalisation of the notification obligation is being called upon. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to consider the issue of general reporting obligations, and I ask the Minister of Finance in particular to note this. Otherwise, I recommend the recommendation from the committee. So to the next issue: In the proposition, the Government is promoting proposals for amendments to the Securities Trading Act, primarily to implement measures against illegal insider dealing. In the past, the Financial Committee has considered some issues related to this and has wanted clear and unambiguous rules to contribute to more efficient and secure trade. In general, the Committee endorses the Government's proposal unanimously. Only on one point does the majority of the Committee depart from the Government's proposal. The majority of the Committee, which does not include the Workers' Party and the SV, indicates in the preamble that the Ministry proposes that the breach of the notification requirement of § 3-1 should no longer be punishable, except in the case of repeated or serious infringements. Instead of punishment, the Ministry proposes the establishment of a system whereby the credit supervision is to impose an ‘infringement fee’. The imposition of an infringement fee on the basis of the proposal is not a penalty. This implies that the basic principles of criminal law on, for example: held guilty and that, in the event of reasonable doubt, it is not possible to be convicted of an infringement. The imposition of an infringement fee may be brought before the courts in accordance with the rules of civil procedure, so that the guarantee of legal certainty contained in the criminal proceedings law will not apply in such a case. The minority in the committee refers to the Constitution § 96, where it follows that no one can be punished without judgment. In the light of this provision, questions may be raised as to whether a system of infringing charges is in accordance with this provision, since the infringing charge is in substance substantially similar to a penalty, such as: in the form of fines. The minority have noted that in their letter to the Committee of 15 May, the Ministry refers to the fact that charging schemes are contained in the Road Traffic Act and in tax legislation — here exemplified in the form of additional taxes. However, the minority of the Committee considers that such schemes are unusual in Norway and that considerations which can justify such schemes in one legal area do not automatically apply in other legal areas. It is pointed out that the Ministry has not assessed the proposal in the light of Section 96 of the Basic Law, nor has it pointed out such specific considerations that should form the basis for a scheme which may be questionable in relation to the Constitution. In 1985, evaluations were carried out in a public inquiry into the sample preparing the 1988 Stock Exchange Act. This sample assessed, inter alia: whether the stock exchange law should contain a rule on the imposition of fines in the event of an infringement of the exchange rules, but it was not proposed to do so, since it was considered doubtful in relation to the Basic Law, Section 96. Furthermore, the minority indicates that the Ministry’s reference to the existing infringement fee schemes does not contain the underlying considerations that are applicable and that would be relevant for the assessment of a scheme currently proposed. It is stated in the proposal that the fines imposed so far are of the order of NOK 20 000 to NOK 40 000 for private individuals. By so doing, the infringement fee mechanism constitutes a real obstacle to legal certainty, since it would rarely be worth the financial risk of engaging in legal proceedings or civil proceedings. Unwanted behaviour among citizens should be penalised in the first place, and only heavy and carefully weighed considerations can justify the forms of sanctions that can in fact be covered by the Basic Law, § 96. The majority of the Committee has then stated that compliance with the notification obligation rule is essential, that sanctions are in place and that infringement should result in a reaction consistent with the nature of the offence. However, the same majority are committed to ensuring legal certainty and will therefore recommend that the issue of imposing an infringement fee is not addressed now but returned to the Ministry for further investigation. There has been considerable disagreement on this issue in many places and, in the Committee's opinion, there is in no way sufficiently well established. Therefore, the majority proposes that the applicable rule on criminal sanctions in the event of a breach of the obligation to notify is maintained, so that no new section 14-2 is introduced into the law. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e700	The purpose of the Securities Trading Act is to facilitate the safe, orderly and efficient trading of financial instruments. When dealing in securities, it is important that market players have confidence in the market and access to information. It is also important that actors do not have access to relevant information that others do not have the opportunity to obtain. There is therefore a prohibition against insider dealing, and such a prohibition should contribute to ensuring that investors in the market are treated as equally as possible. From a number of points of view, it has been claimed that securities trading laws relating to illegal insider dealing have not been sufficiently effective. This is one of the things that this bill has done to correct. I am pleased that the Storting today seems to be very important to join this presented. The only inconvenience is the imposition of a fee in the event of a breach of the notification obligations. There has been an increase in minor breaches of the notification obligation rules in recent times. In most cases, transactions have been small or the deadline for notification has been slightly exceeded. In most cases, there is also no suspicion that the late meal-ding was intended to cover illegal or clandestine situations. The members of the Workers' Party and SV wish to have a two-track system in place to allow the credit supervision to charge fees in the event of a minor breach of the obligation to notify. In our opinion, this will make the system more efficient. Decisions on fees will be individual decisions by administrative law and may be appealed to the Ministry of Finance. In the event of a serious breach of the notification obligation rule, these shall, as at present, be sanctioned after the time of the criminal offence. This case has been heard, and the hearing bodies agree that a right to impose a fee should be imposed in the event of a breach of the rules on reporting obligations under the Securities Trading Act § 3-1 and § 3-3. The Labour Party therefore supports the submission from the Government. I will record the minority proposal from the Working Party and SV on page 21 of the setting. When it relates to Ot.prp. No 53 on the regulation of trade in derivatives of goods, the Committee is broadly in agreement with the Government's proposal. It is also agreed that the right to netting of derivatives of goods and their conditions should be governed by the law, which also provides for the definition of the contracts to be covered by the commodity derivative. It is also such that the Government of the submitted underlying the adjustment of derivatives, opens up for netting or set-off rules. It also applies to derivatives not listed on the stock exchange. This means that the government bill allows both listed and unlisted commodity derivatives to be netted. In the setting it is stated that the Workers' Party and SV believe that the requirement for this is that the data be transmitted through a data centre. We believe that this is important for the security of all actors involved in the derivatives market. Furthermore, there is a reason to point out that this would result in more orderly conditions in this market. In particular, this could be the case in the context of bankruptcy, where the parties to the netting agreement can collect their claims in the bankruptcy before other operators. With this in mind, I will take up the minority proposal from the Working Party and SV on page 13 of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e728	The representative of Kaldhol has taken up the suggestions he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 5 and 6. [[Vitation, see pages 534 and 535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e744	I would like to start by referring to the debate in Stortinget earlier today, where I did well for the principle that I think should serve as the basis for the definition of depreciation rates. In the last fall of budgetary management, the rate of the balancing group g was changed to 2 pst, and the rate of the balancing group h was changed to 0 pst. The government is doing Ot. pp. No 50 for 2000–2001 suggests that the agricultural balance group g is set at 4 pst, which we agree to. This is done by proposing a supplement to the tax laws § 14–43 other leaks, by a new letter c, in order to obtain a practical limitation. This is the Christian People's Party. At the same time, I would like to add that the balancing groups g and h must also be assessed in connection with the announcement by the Government that it will submit to the House. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e755	Depreciation rules are an important part of food taxation. The depreciation policy helps to determine the amount of a company's taxable profit in each year. Together with, among others: the formal rate of tax on company profits thus determines the depreciation rules for the real tax burden on business. Since the Aarbakke Committee presented its investigation in 1989, there has been broad agreement on the principles for setting the depreciation rates. The rates were unaffected by the fiscal reform in 1992 to the budgetary comparisons between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties in 1999 and 2000, as part of the collection of budgetary agreements. The government has put on the table a case where agriculture is the only industry to be exempted from the changes in the depreciation. There are no arguments from the Government for this matter. There is no attempt at giving any justification for such specific treatment of agriculture at all. This is, of course, because there is no argument that the agricultural industry is affected differently from the rest of the economy by the irresponsible restrictions in the depreciation rates behind the Workers' Party. Farmers also have a requirement for predictable framework conditions. Changes in depreciation rates have the same problematic effects in this industry as in others. The restrictions imposed by the majority in the depreciation rules have been opposed to the right. Agriculture would have had more favourable depreciation rules with the Right’s policy than is currently being envisaged. We are opposed to the fact that the individual industry should be selected without any justification and given special treatment. In reality, this procedure means that, with the support of the central parties, the Government is actively discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e764	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e778	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e792	The left has in Document No. 8:99, which we are dealing with today, suggested that smaller traders should be able to submit sales duties annually instead of every two months, as the law today suggests. The VAT reform, which will enter into force on 1 July of this year, will mean that many smaller enterprises with small turnover will then be subject to a levy. From the same date, they are entitled to deduct VAT on acquisitions for use in the establishment. The investment levy was repealed with effect from 1 January 2002 and subsequently proposed to enter into force on 1 April 2002. That is to say, in the first nine months, the new taxable enterprises will have to deal not only with the rules on outward and inward VAT but also with the very complex system for calculating the investment tax. There are also many smaller enterprises with small turnover that are subject to the current VAT system. The Directorate of Taxation has estimated that approximately A total of 160 000 units will be made subject to annual reporting on the basis of the proposals put forward by the Left. As early as the month of January/February, a question was asked by the Minister of Finance in the Question Time if it was not possible to allow the smaller farms to be covered by the same scheme as farmers and forest users, namely the possibility to send an annual task instead of a two-monthly task. At the time, the Minister of Finance was already positive in his reply, but would not promise that this could be done by the introduction of the new VAT reform. In its reply to the Committee, the Minister of Finance is still in favour of the proposal, which aims to simplify legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises. He also agreed with the proposers that the introduction of the annual task could lead to relief for smaller enterprises, but did not agree that this should be introduced now. The matter must be carefully considered and then sent to the hearing before the law is amended, states the Minister of Finance. However, the introduction of a major VAT reform without the fact that the reform has been consulted by the respective authorities has obviously not been a problem. Under today's system, tax obligations already occur when turnover exceeds NOK 30000 during a 12 month period. This limit has remained still for many years and no longer has the function it was intended to exclude the smallest traders. But instead of looking at a change in the financial limits, which would have quite different consequences, the majority of the committee, consisting of all except the Workers' Party and the SV, has proposed an immediate measure to meet the small self-employed. By introducing the possibility of sending an annual report, they will have better time to discuss both the way in which forms are completed and the way in which they can be dealt with in a sensible way. Proposalers have pointed to an amount limit of 1 million. kr, as they have in Sweden. The majority did not decide on the amount limit that the scheme should have, but refers to the Swedish scheme. For me, however, there does not seem to be an amount limit in today's Norway of 1 million. - Unreasonable. The system of annual tasks considers that the majority of the Committee must cover all small traders, including those who are currently subject to the levy. The majority have stressed the need for freedom of choice with regard to the transmission of annual or second-monthly tasks. The majority are of the opinion that an extension of the group already sending the annual task must be relatively simple, as there is a well-established routine around it. Even after today's rules, there is a significant group of forest and agriculture operators who deliver an annual task. The Minister of Finance has further pointed out in his letter the possibility of VAT fraud in connection with the fact that it is only sent annually. He shares this concern with Eikokrim-Chief Einar Högetveit. But we can't always make rules, assume that people are cellar rings. There will almost always be someone who will try to cheat, no matter what the legislation looks like. This is a simplification approach that will meet the needs of smaller enterprises. We're facing a choice between making a simplification or keeping a more rigid system. The Minister of Finance has not split up the notification from Sweden, where it is stated that VAT fraud, including misuse of the Annual Tasks Scheme, is NOK 1 billion. That was really the basis for pointing out that this was a great opportunity for fraud. In today's business Friday, 25 May, the Ecocrim Manager says that ‘all of us see large sums being cheated’, but he does not invest this in any detail. That is to say, the whole VAT reform and the whole VAT law should perhaps have had a certain revision and a simplification. At the end of the day: After closer contact with the Ministry of Finance after the case was given, the Ministry asked for a slightly different wording of the legal paragraph. This wishes to meet the majority and therefore withdraws the proposal for a decision in the vote and replaces it with proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the hall. There are no substantive changes in the proposal, but proposals for decisions are now proposed in Section 31 of the VAT Act instead of Section 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e820	The representative of Nakkim has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e823	There's probably a bit of a bold exercise of the bulk of this stuff going on, not because not the intention in itself is the very best, and not because this might be going well, but at the same time you should keep it in mind when Odelstingen makes this kind of decision without perhaps having thought enough about it. These warnings from the Head of Ecokrim, who also came this weekend, should well lead to a certain restraint in making this kind of change-trap. It is clear that we, on the SV side, support the intention in this. We would like smaller businesses to be made easier both in terms of annual tasks and other circumstances. But it is clear that not all traders have the same pure flour in the bag, and it is clear that there are possibilities for tax or VAT evasion here which, of course, make this problematic. That means that we, on the SV side, and also on the Labour Party side, do not agree with this proposal that is being promoted today. We will go against and promote our own proposal. But at the same time I would say that the intention is good, and that means that I share the intention. In view of the examples we have from last winter, when you sat at Hotel Plaza and went in and made some changes in both taxes, tax rates and depreciation rates, which have been debated in today's oeuvre meeting, I think you should be somewhat restrained by this type of grip. I think what had been right in this case was that we were able to assess how this could be done in a way that ensures that there is no room for increased crime and VAT evasion, while at the same time respecting the intention of the proposer to make it easier for smaller businesses, thereby making life easier for many businesses that obviously need a little less bureaucracy. That means I'm dealing with the proposal from the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e834	The representative of Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e847	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e854	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Britt Hildeng, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative of Meløysund, proposal No. 5, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 6, by Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a state-funded escalating plan for the construction of cheap rental dwellings, student housing and low-income housing for first-time start-ups in the State budget for 2002.’» Proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Equation Offices to assume that today’s Equation Tariff complaints are to be followed by a maximum tariff of 30 pst. by the technical value of the house or 30 pst. of observable market price if the current Equation Rate exceeds this.» Proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the representative of Meløysund, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the property tax and the benefit tax on owner-occupied dwellings will be phased out gradually over 4 years and to make proposals in the State budget for 2002 to the first stage of such a four-year winding-up plan.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a new housing tax system based on the Fire Insurance Tariff/Full Value Insurance Tariff, where the income tax on the benefits of living in owner-occupied dwellings and leisure homes ceases to exist, and dwellings of normal standard avoid house taxes.’; These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1030	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, says:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1116	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposed no. 1 and 2, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 3 and 4, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a large-scale notification providing an overview of the framework conditions for the petroleum activities of internationally competing oil companies in Norway, on the continental shelf of Norway, as well as other territories and continental shelf.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case that investigates and/or proposes systems/models for a variable marginal tax depending on the oil price, so as to reduce marginal tax when the crude oil price is low.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to amend the capital depreciation rules for activities on the base, so that they become more consistent with the actual life of the installations during the year.’;» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1173	The President has understood that the Socialist Left will oppose it. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1263	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1290	The President will vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to Section 5 new third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1975 No. 35 on the taxation of underwater petroleum deposits, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Article 5 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Deads incurred in the 2001 year of income may be carried forward with the addition of interest added to the balance at the end of the year of income. The Ministry shall determine the interest rate in accordance with the regulations. In the event of the total realisation of the operations in which the deficit occurred or of the merger of the company with another company, the total unused deficit referred to in the first sentence may be required to be transferred from the transfer to the acquiring company.The present third to seventh subparagraphs shall become the fourth to eighth subparagraphs.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1316	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1340	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1349	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1541	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1550	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1648	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1748	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1841	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e1922	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2029	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2038	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2045	During the debate, Ottar Kaldhol presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2148	The first sentence of Section 10-1 of the first paragraph is accompanied by a different proposal from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1997 79 on securities trading is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 10-1 is replaced by the following:This chapter applies to derivatives of goods settled with the assistance of a clearing house as referred to in Section 6-1, future interest rate agreements [[FRA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2166	The second sentence of Section 10-1 of the first paragraph is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2208	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2217	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2224	During the debate, Ottar Kaldhol presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2381	The President here will vote on the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, which applies to new § 14-2 and § 14-2 will be new § 14-3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1997 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:New Section 14-2 is replaced by the following:§ 14-2 Infringement feeCredit supervision may impose an infringement fee on the State in the event of breach of Section 3-1 of the Act and Section 3-3 of the First subparagraph.Decisions on an infringement fee are mandatory grounds for outlays.The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the implementation of the rules of this paragraph, including on the amount and calculation of the fee, recovery, payment period and appeal period.§ 14-2 becomes new Section 14-3»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2410	I have voted incorrectly, and I have reason to believe that more people have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2415	Then the President will take that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2504	There is a dissenting proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 14-3 becomes new sections 14-4 and shall read as follows:§ 14-4 PenaltiesWith fines or imprisonment of up to six years, it shall be punished as intentionally or negligently infringing the first paragraph of Section 2-1 or the first or second subparagraph of Section 2-6. With a fine or imprisonment of up to 1 year, it shall be punished as intentionally or negligently: 1. infringes § 2-2, §§ 2a-1 to 2a-7, § 2-6 third paragraph, § 5-1, § 5-7, § 5-8, § 6-1 first paragraph, § 6-5, § 7-1, § 7-11, §§ 8-2 to 8-8, §§ 9-3 to 9-8, § 11-3 or § 12-2.2. infringes § 2-3 if inside information is available. provide misleading or incorrect information in prospectuses, advertisements, etc. as referred to in Section 5-5,4. infringes the obligation of Section 9-1, first paragraph, No. 3 to hold financial instruments and funds belonging to investors separately from the entity,5. violates the obligations imposed by law in Sections 12 to 4 or 6. gross or repeated breaches of §§ 2-5, 3-1 or 9-2. Penalties punish the one who deliberately or negligently infringes § 3-2 or grossly or repeatedly violates § 3-3. Infringement of the second and third subparagraphs is an offence irrespective of the amount of the penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2567	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2576	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2610	The Right Party and the Progress Party have notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2621	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Right Party and the Advance Party will also vote against this. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2634	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2641	In the event of an incursion, the minority proposal from the Right and the Advance Party were not taken up during the examination of the case, but I allow myself to ask that it still be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2646	Kenneth Svendsen has then drawn up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income II law of 26 March 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:Sections 2-32 are replaced by the following:Mild foundations, churches, communities, corporations or non-profit institutions serving households are exempt from taxes on wealth and income. [[tax laws]] [[tax laws]] [[1]] Companies that are organised as an intermunicipal company and compete with commercial operators, for example in tendering procedures, shall be deemed to have acquisitions as their object. Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2688	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Kjellaug Nakkim on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Progress Party, the Center Party, Left and the representative Karl N. Meløysund. Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:99 [[Amendment of Section 30 with the simplification of the fee payment for small enterprises]] Before we go to voting, the President will take note of the fact that the case spokespersons have drawn the committee's recommendation to the legislative decision and instead put forward proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Left and the representative Karl N. Meløysund. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 19 June 1969 66 on VAT II Act 19 June 1969 No 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: New Section 31(a) is replaced by the following:Registration-compulsory trader with a small turnover can deliver an annual task. The Ministry may lay down rules on the delimitation and implementation of the provision in the first sentence. IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force without delay with effect from 1 July 2001 for traders who become subject to VAT from that date, cf. Law 21 December 2000 No 113 amending Law No. 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax and its subsequent amendments, with effect from 1 January 2002 for traders subject to VAT under Law No 19 June 1969 No. 66.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2730	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President expects the Labour Party and the SV to vote against. No one's protested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-28-lower-2.ana.ud294e2743	The Act will be sent to the Creation.
