ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e64	The representatives Ansgar Gabrielsen and Torstein Rudihagen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Michael Momyr, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Rikke Lind from 27 March onwards and until further notice from the representative Einar Steensnæs on leave from 27 March until 30 March to take part in an official visit to Cyprus following an invitation. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the Vara, for Akershu County of Åge Tovan and for Rogaland County of Olaf Gedrem, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e108	Åge Tovan and Olaf Gedrem are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e113	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e118	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e125	Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e133	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e137	On behalf of the representative Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on legislation that ensures permanent reasonable rentals in social rentals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e142	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e145	On behalf of Harald Tom Nesvik and myself, I will make suggestions to reward those who want to contribute to their labour force after age 67.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e164	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg already announced in the Government's Declaration of Accession a year ago that modernisation and renewal of the public sector would be one of the main projects of the Government. In his speech to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party on 10 November last autumn, the Prime Minister said that social democratic leadership means cleaning up, adding that it has Norwegian people's demands. By the Prime Minister, innovation was defined as more and better services, simpler rules, less administration, and that services are there when we need them. All of this is well said and good intentions in relation to the modernisation that the Government believes it is necessary to implement. The government will also aim to be remembered for modernising Norway. Many communities will be affected by the modernisation proposed by the Government, in the form of lost jobs, when state agencies such as Defence, Health, Post, Telecom, Police, Town and Government are reformed. We do not yet know what the Government intends to do in relation to the municipalities and county municipalities. But what we know is that you, among other things, intends to liquidate the loss compensation for municipalities, which will mean that, in particular, many small municipalities will have a tighter financial environment. Of course, this will also have a significant impact on the development of the local government sector. We also know that many of the same municipalities that are now affected by the conversion of state enterprises are also affected by structural changes in business – structural changes that are very rapid. We see that conversion and mergers within the banking and financial world lead to the disappearance of branch offices, the loss of employees' jobs and the need to move or find other business to relate to. We see that within farming we have had extensive mergers with far fewer and larger units than what we have had in the past. This results in both management functions, market functions, research and commercial functions being centralised and disappearing from many communities. The Minister for Fisheries has proposed the introduction of unit quotas in the fisheries sector, and he said in the media in North Norway last week that we have too many industrial holdings, and that it is necessary to restructure the fishing industry in order to obtain fewer units. At the same time, when you say that you have to have unit quotas in the coastal fleet, you get both larger vessels and fewer industrial businesses, which in turn will cause many communities to suffer from a shortage of raw materials supplies, and you will also experience there that you will have job redundancy. We see strong structural changes in agriculture and the food industry, which have been going on for many years. We also see a strong concentration of power in trade that both leads to the disappearance of local shops and that small local suppliers and industrial companies do not compete with the big chains and thus have no market to supply. The changes in private business are not essentially a theme of this interpellation, nor are they affected by the decision taken by the Stortingen in 1995 but are part of an overall picture because it affects many communities. And changes in private business can be highly influenced by us politicians through the framework conditions we lay down in relation to tax policy, concession terms, what kind of agriculture we want in the future, to take some examples. But the government's project on the modernisation of the public sector will lead to larger units, we get bigger state, we get less government, we get more centralization, and in the long run I think we're going to get more privatisation. And this is where the government has a special responsibility to address the developments we are now seeing. The district uprising we now experience in Finnmark and other parts of the country is not sewing from people who feel that the state contributes too little subsidies, but there are people who are mentioned who feel that the basis of life disappears. It's people who have invested in housing, where you see values disappear, it's people who have invested in businesses, where the market disappears, and where the values of the investments you've made over a long period of time are gone. And that's the sum of the changes we see here, which are important and often catastrophic to many communities. In 1995, the Stortinget took the following decisions: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish procedures to ensure that the impact on rural policy is addressed as part of the decision-making basis, when deciding whether to implement policy in key societal areas.’ This decision was made against the Labour Party's votes, but of course the Government's decision to follow up when major conversion projects are being carried out, as we now see in a number of areas – and not least in a context where these changes and the modernisation that the Government has made to its main task are being done at the same time in many areas. Many municipalities and communities have built a significant infrastructure to support the state activities of the municipality. This is particularly true in relation to Defence, which often represents many jobs in small communities, but also in relation to other major state activities. There is an infrastructure built around schools, kindergartens, music schools, health services, to serve a population base that is often based on a significant number of government jobs. And it is quite obvious that the transformation it is now being added to will have serious consequences for these municipalities. In this regard, therefore, I do not want to discuss first and foremost the rationale of the modernisation project launched by the Government, but the way in which it is handled and the handling of the 1995 decision of the Storting, which clearly states that an impact assessment should be carried out. If conversion to the extent envisaged by the Government is first seen to be necessary, there is also the possibility of compensating for job losses through active participation in the conversion work, through the decentralisation of state-owned jobs, such as the central government being assessed in due time through a report completed by the Ministry of Labour and Administration in February 2000, which shows that a significant number of government jobs can be decentralised by means of modern technology and added to areas that lose jobs as a result of state conversion. That work should be done in any case. My question to the Prime Minister will then finally be: What will the Government do to show the overall impact of these proposals that the Government is now working on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e195	Norway has conducted more than any other country in our part of the world a targeted policy to ensure housing and employment throughout the country. We differ from other countries, both in terms of housing patterns and in terms of equivalence in living conditions throughout the country. Nevertheless, we have major challenges in rural policy. The relocation from the districts has been relatively stable for several decades. The main challenge today lies in lower birth rates in many districts, including the United Kingdom. because of the lack of or reduced return to peripheral municipalities. The pattern has been the same for decades. The move has increased in economic times and decreased in economic times. However, due to the willingness to use strong policy instruments, developments in Norway have not had the same impact on the pattern of residence as in many other countries. The government’s objective is to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and to ensure an equivalent living conditions for all. It is an ambitious objective, but it is correct because it is about important values in the development of Norway. It's about facilitating that we can have good communities across the country. And it's not least that the districts have a lot to contribute to the rest of the country, and that a scattered housing pattern gives us a more diverse society – a richer Norway. If we are to achieve the goal, we must be willing to use political instruments and drive political governance. We're doing that today, and we're going to keep doing that. At the same time, Norway is not disconnected from what is happening in the world around us, nor from the technological development and development of people’s wishes in the choice of residence and occupation. Just as little as we can decide what kind of population we're going to have in each municipality, we can decide politically where people are going to live and work. Nor can we force investments that companies themselves do not want to implement. District policy must be based on the large resources, the momentum and the creativity of the districts. Our task is to make it possible to live and work in the districts, so that people themselves can make that choice. The government's public sector renewal programme means conversions in many businesses. We want to improve public service provision as the requirements for the provision of services increase. We want to shift the resources from administration to service production. We want to get away from central government and from increasing local self-government. And we will turn the efforts from areas with declining needs to areas with growing needs. This can be demanding and sometimes painful changes, but it is still good district policy. Good, available public services are essential for housing and employment in Utkant-Norway. If we don't manage to use the labour properly, it often turns out that it is especially on the outskirts that we see people being affected by lack of key personnel such as health professionals, teachers and other important occupational groups. Teacher shortages, lack of body and lack of nurses are not at all anything that affects District Norway. Therefore, the policy of innovation and district policy will be closely intertwined. Let me give you some examples. Police reform means halving the number of police districts. This allows us to get nearly 500 more policemen out of the offices and into active police work. There'll be less bureaucracy and more police. There will be no fewer police posts in the districts, but more policemen in the towns and cities. The government will propose the state takeover of hospitals, because we will counteract differences in the health supply here in the country and prevent a two-part healthcare system. Such a two-way distribution of health services would easily mean that health services are increasing where the market is the largest, in central strata, and weakening at the edges. Hospital reform means a stronger public health service, not least district Norway is served. Defence reform is a reform for a stronger and more powerful Norwegian defence. There will be conversions in some municipalities. We're going to meet with a separate conversion program of 250 million. kr. We're gathering the resources in Defense. We almost halve the number of jobs at the central management of the defence in Oslo, while for example. Against Rena clay and Elverum, the number of defence jobs is growing. Overall, the defence reform involves greater staff reductions in Oslo than in the whole of Northern Norway. The municipalities must also be renewed. And then here's the slogan: out of the offices, more services that people need, less bureaucracy and administration. Therefore, we would like to suggest that municipalities have increased autonomy and less detailed management from Oslo. The public sector shall become more accessible. The aim is to provide public service offices in all the municipalities of the country by the end of 2003. Many of the services can be provided around the clock today by means of information technology. Use of IT means that geographical distance means less. It serves the districts. There have been major changes in the telecommunications sector, as the representative of Enoxen mentioned, but Norway has been among the countries with the most use of the Internet and the highest density of computers and mobile phones. And the cost goes down. In 1990 a telephone call of 10 minutes cost more than NOK 22 between Hammerfest and Oslo. Today it costs less than $3. It is important for District Norway that the telecommunications sector has changed. Finnmark was, for example: the first Norwegian County to receive a fully digitised telecommunications infrastructure. Now we're working to facilitate the development of broadband services across the country, which will make even more services available, and on which District Norway serves. That is why we need to renew and expand the telecommunications sector in Norway. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore that in some municipalities the sum of the changes can be large and have negative consequences. However, the answer cannot be to fail to implement the necessary changes in the public sector. The answer must be to meet the development of active measures: The government will launch an application to move tasks from the central government of Oslo. The government has made three important transfers during its first year: the Coastal Directorate must be moved to Ålesund, the Product and Electricity Authority must be moved out of Oslo to Tønsberg and the Domstolsverwaltung to Trondheim. The Government has decided that, hereinafter, new State activities will normally be located outside Oslo. Derogations must be justified separately. Specific guidelines have now been laid down for this purpose, to be adopted by the Royal Resolution, and it will be actively followed up by the Government. We will agree that municipalities that have a significant overall decline in the number of jobs will be able to receive exceptional assistance for innovation and conversion. In the past, this was limited to places where corner stone companies were shut down. The Minister of Local Affairs is discussing the Vadsø situation on the basis of such problems, and Vardø has received support on the basis of a similar justification. The fight to ensure safe Norwegian food production is also a struggle for agriculture in the districts. Here we have an active policy. We have to say that the farmer has a solid income base, while through the concession policy we ensure that the settlement can be maintained even without farm operation. In addition, we have presented a value creation programme together with the agricultural industry, with measures that benefit both Norwegian food production in general and rural agriculture in particular. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is one of our most international industries, with a total of 95 pst. production goes to markets outside Norway. Good fisheries and aquaculture policy is also good district policy. We want to make use of the entire coast. In the award of new concessions for salmon and trout top hops, one of the main criteria will be to create new activities in areas that are poorly exploited for marine purposes but have a high potential. In order to ensure the diversity of ownership of farming concessions, the Minister for Fisheries has recently adopted rules on the limitation of ownership of salmon and trout. In the trawler, different bindings are linked in terms of delivery conditions to most of the vessels owned by the fishing industry. Such bonds must also be maintained in the event of industrial change of ownership. The purchase by Norway Seafoods of shares in the Findus trawls in Hammerfest was subject to delivery conditions ensuring that the vessels are to be delivered to facilities in Hammerfest. This helps to secure jobs and investments when Norway Seafoods is now building a new factory. City and country are interdependent. We will continue to invest in existing businesses and promote the creation of new businesses in the districts. By using the whole country, we can ensure access to raw materials and develop new products. The Government’s Public Sector Renewal Programme is anchored in the Ministry of Labour and Administration. It is the municipal minister who is responsible for safeguarding the interests of municipalities and districts in relation to each programme and in relation to the overall renewal. Public sector renewal means stronger districts and better provision of public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e251	Of course, it's true that we can't decide where to live, but we can make it possible for people to live where they want to live. Investigations carried out, inter alia: While the undersigned was a municipal minister, it shows that a large number of people, in fact the majority of the population, can imagine living in District Norway and in rural areas if they are prepared to have their place of work there, among others. by means of modern technology. The Prime Minister mentions actions in a number of areas which, in the view of the Prime Minister, show that the Government, in sum, is pursuing a good rural policy. It is with respect not to report the perception people around in the quite country have of what is now happening from the Government. The Prime Minister has mentioned a number of examples, and I will address some of them, because I note that, in relation to the impact studies that the Stortinget has established through its decision in 1995, the Prime Minister has not mentioned the impact assessment for local communities and individual communities that are largely affected by state conversion decisions. Firstly, the limitations of ownership imposed by the Minister of Fisheries and the Government in the field of aquaculture are such that, in sum, they will result in the country’s largest farm actually being twice the size of Nutreco, the largest farm we have today, with an extension of concessions in the future. It gives a constraint that won't have any practical significance, and when you see in addition that while the central government proposed that re-allocation in Finnmark and Troms should take place to owners who had one or two concessions from before, and happen to the smallest, then a majority in the Grand Duchy, with the votes of the Labour Party, voted down that proposal, and said that everyone should be treated equally, including the great ones. The result of this was, of course, that the big owners gained even greater power in the breeding industry. It's a development that community doesn't deserve. We also see the same in relation to agriculture. Although the Prime Minister now claims that we should facilitate small-scale agriculture and decentralised agriculture, agricultural policy in the last government periods of the Workers' Party from Gunhild Eyeland has led the Minister of Agriculture to increasing use and decreasing use. I now see that there are several of the Workers' Party's people who have a different rhetoric and who claim that it will not happen in the future. But it remains to be seen. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has followed up the work that was started on the part of the central government, both with regard to the relocation of state tasks and with regard to the location decision that also provided the basis for the central government's work on the location of state activities outside Oslo. The implementation of this Decision is essential. But it is not that 500 policemen will automatically get into the streets by reducing the number of police districts. There are also a number of investigations to be carried out which require some policemen in administrative positions. So the communities affected by the disappearance of the police act lose a lot of jobs, which can have dramatic consequences for individual communities, as when the defence fails. It is basically also the investigations and impact assessments that I have asked for and that I have so far not received an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e264	It is true that the Stortinget took a decision in 1995. Since then, the Central Party has been in the government offices for two and a half years, and as far as I know, they did not present any more extensive impact assessment of the conversion of the public sector than that of this government. What we're doing, for example. When we presented the defence reform, we presented the effects in the individual municipalities, and we put 250 million in. kr to conversion in the municipalities affected. And when we presented the judicial reform and the police reform, we also presented the effects in the individual municipalities. There will also be an overall presentation in the Regional Communication, which the Minister of Local Affairs will present in a short time. Insofar as the representative of Enoxsen believes that there should have been some more extensive impact assessments, he had thus had a good opportunity to prepare them when he himself was a municipal minister. For example, he reduced. strong numbers of post offices in this country and also other types of public sector conversions. The main point is that there is too much administration and too little service production in the public sector. The number of employees in Norwegian municipalities has increased by 37 people every day for 10 years. There are 150 000 more employees in Norwegian municipalities today than 10 years ago, and there has been an increase in virtually every municipality. That's good, because it means more teachers, more nurses, more policemen and more important public servants in the state, state and municipality. But it's also a problem that, despite that, we have a lack of body. Norway is the world's most doctors in terms of population. Still, we have a lack of play. We are the country in the world that has the highest expenditure per year. pupils and most teachers in relation to pupils. Still, we have a lack of teachers. Then we say that in addition to giving more money, we also have to organize these businesses better. It's a paradox that when we almost halve the number of employees in the Armed Forces Command, that increases the defensiveness. And when we halve the number of police districts, we get better police, more investigation, more fight against crime, but less bureaucracy. I accept that it means conversion at Huseby. I accept that it is demanding for some municipalities to lose the police chief and the police district. But I don't accept that it's wrong to do that, because it's absolutely necessary that we get more police in the streets to fight crime, that more teachers spend more time teaching, and that more doctors spend more time caring for patients. It's simply too much administration and too little service production. That's what we're trying to do. It can be painful changes, but it's absolutely necessary changes. I mentioned the telecommunications sector. I realize it's painful. But that a phone call does not cost NOK 22 but NOK 3 is actually very important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e275	Good municipal economy is also good district policy. Therefore, the Labour Party increased the income of the municipal sector by DKK 5 billion for 2001. The Labour Party, through action, shows that we are betting on Community solutions and calling for public welfare throughout the country. Enabling municipalities to provide basic services such as kindergartens, care for the elderly, primary schools and culture is one of the most important forms of regional policy intervention we can take. What we all want is for the welfare to be right outside our door, regardless of whether we live in Finnmark, in a small town in central Norway or in the Oslofjord area. Our policy is to eliminate injustice and equalise differences in Commune-Norway. But too strong central governance is no guarantee of equality in the offer. On the contrary, too strong central governance weakens the ability to influence and solutions adapted to the individual environment and individual. Responsibility and authority must therefore be moved closer to people and out into the country to municipalities where people live. That is the direction of the Labour Party's policy. We have started the winding-up of the detailed management of the municipal sector and are opening up more municipal autonomy by including earmarked grants equivalent to more than DKK 1 billion into the municipal income system. Very familiar was there no dramatic decline in ear marking during the Central Party period in the government quarter. The Labour Party has received a majority for the conversion of the municipal income system. The interpellant extracts one of several components, namely the closure of the loss compensation. It is unreasonable in itself to bring forward a single component in a complex income system. Since we moved on to the income system in 1997, several municipalities have suffered excessive losses in maintaining the loss compensation. It has not been fair and therefore not desirable to maintain. The Labour Party wants a more even distribution of income between municipalities in order to ensure an equivalent service offer across the country. That's how we think we can counteract the centralization forces. That being said, there is reason for some concern about the economic situation in the municipal sector. It takes responsibility for the Workers' Party by providing more money and more free resources to the sector. The local government debt increased during the Central Party's time in government, and one might wonder what the central party in position did to improve the economy in the local government sector — not so conspicuously. The public sector accounts for a large number of jobs in large parts of the country, and therefore the renewal of the public sector is good district policy. If we weaken the public sector, we also weaken access to jobs in all parts of the country. The working party is now in the process of renewing the public sector. It is a major and difficult challenge, and I would urge the representative, Mr Enoxen, to be constructive in the further process. It is always easier to be ‘good’ in opposition than in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e290	Erna Solberg is next speaker. - The president's sorry. This went a little fast. – The next speaker is Kjell Magne Bondevik, as previously announced, Dernest Erna Solberg. This must not be interpreted in such a way that the President is eager to get ahead of the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e295	Nor shall I interpret it so that it is a little unpleasant for the President that the Christian People's Party has become the largest opposition party in Stortinget because of special circumstances! I guess that's not what was behind it. The development of District Norway gives cause for concern. We've got a Finnmark where it can eventually become a district uprising, and I think it's actually not entirely random that it comes under a workers' party rule. Centralisation is driven by heavy economic forces. It is necessary that political authorities deliberately impose counter-powers. When the Workers' Party took over the government a year ago, we immediately saw trends towards weakening regional policy instruments. Already in its first budgetary audit, revised in the spring of 2000, the Government cut several budget lines. The government also managed the agricultural settlement last year so that there was a breach, after there had been agreement between the state and both the peasant organizations during the central government. This sent out negative signals in District Norway. Regional policy in the future includes, inter alia: the following instruments are important: Action needs to be targeted at target groups such as women, young people and immigrants/removers to districts. There must be a conscious commitment to building skills in the districts. This must also lead SND’s business. The framework conditions for industrial policy, as well as for primary industries as for industry and services industries, need to be provided so that we can stimulate smaller units, depending on so many urban and rural communities. Modernisation of public service production must also be guided by regional policy assessments. Everything can't be like before. In this way, I agree with the Prime Minister. However, through modern ICT, service offices and other instruments, centralisation can be counteracted. In my view, it is not as often necessary as many people seem to think, that one has to combine small units into large ones, which in turn tends to centralize, but we should think more about how we use the new modern tools, not least the information and communication technologies, to keep services around the municipalities. Modernisation of both the Defence and the Police Act, as specifically mentioned by the Prime Minister, is necessary. However, the extent to which this benefits the districts can be highly discussed with the proposals put forward by the Government. We get to hope that it will provide better police and better defense. But I also believe that the Government could have favourably considered more district policy criteria in the reorganization process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e321	It happens that such debates in the Stortinget cause you to get some pictures in your head. And I have to say that there was one image that was produced in my head when the representative Enoch made his contribution, namely, the image of Ludwig – ‘It’s failure, that’ – the ‘person’ that is afraid of most, not least of change, and that is part of the Norwegian people’s soul. I understand that representatives from the Central Party may be afraid of the structural changes that are taking place, but I do not understand that they believe that the future of the districts will be several equality officials looking at each equation, instead of a qualitatively better equation, more people in defence, with a structure that does not provide a better defence, but that is just there for district policy reasons, or more administrative governance in the police community. This type of action does not improve the situation of people in rural areas, nor does it make it more attractive to live in District Norway. What will make it more attractive to live in districts is to make District Norway competitive for the viable future industries we have, and for the resource industries that are already an essential part of the economic base of District Norway. And then it's about other instruments than imagining the public sector in District Norway. It is about investing in a proper, good environment for private business, and about investing in better transport and infrastructure. We're never going to get a viable District Norway if we're going to bet on that policy that the public is going to solve problems that we really don't have to do anymore, just because the tasks are in District Norway. Moreover, changes in the income system of municipalities, for example: in the loss compensation scheme, necessarily only affects District Norway. The truth is that those who get the most money out of the so-called loss compensation scheme today are Oslo, Asker and Bærum – quite a lot of money. So what we're doing in the right is getting into the income system other than artificial compensation because municipalities have been given too much in the past, elements that reflect the objective criteria and cost structures that are different and that also take into account the problems in District Norway. Among other things, we have the question of moving away and getting threshold values, that our income system does not match that, because when you move away, you get stuck with a lot of infrastructure that you don't use and that you can't easily adapt. It's the opposite of being concerned about the growth problem in other parts of the country. I think instead of meeting the future with fear of globalisation, we should face the future with confidence that we can create a competitive Norway. And then we can't be afraid of all the changes that we have to make to improve public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e332	When you hear the representative of Enoxsen, you can get the impression that District Norway will only breathe and live by means of significant subsidies, a significant public sector and not least a strongly subsidised Norwegian agriculture. I have at least experienced every time I have been out talking to business managers, to the business community in District Norway, and not least to the district population as such, that they – all of them – are in no way concerned with getting more subsidies. They are not engaged in receiving more subsidies, more aid and more help. What they are all concerned about is an industrial policy that allows businesses in the districts to retain more of their value creation — yes, they are engaged in a tax policy that makes it possible to survive. And I have to say that I am amazed that Enoxen is producing an interpellation on district policy without mentioning perhaps the most central means of keeping a competitive and viable district Norway in the spirit: why didn't the representative say all day about the need to build new infrastructure and better roads to improve accessibility, which will help to reduce the transport costs for businesses, which produce significant value creation, and which depends on getting to the markets faster? It was not mentioned at all. And when you talk about the local economy, why don't you take a visit to the corporate tax, which was perhaps the most important basis for municipalities to get more tax revenue through business start-ups? It was obviously not important. I also got the impression when I heard about Kjell Magne Bondevik, that such an amazingly successful district policy was being pursued during the Bondevik administration, and that there was a sudden shift in the moment when the Stoltenberg government arrived. I have to remember that ‘Simplify Norway’, which was the major investment project of the central government, and which was perhaps one of the keys to making district Norway and the companies out there would work better, only led to more forms and more bureaucracy. It is such that the sharing model is one of the main obstacles for a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, the family-run enterprises around the district of Norway. A centralised wage-forming system also helps to drive costs in the weather for enterprises that might have had a better living base for local wage formations. It is a strict concession policy in the farming industry, it is a square fisheries policy. Talking about creativity in the districts, you have to let the districts both get sheep and keep their values. This is primarily done through industrial policy and tax policy, not least. It is not being done by increasing the electricity charge, by proposing a short-term tax, by proposing an increase in VAT, by proposing to increase the tax burden on those companies that are actually asking for two things, namely a simpler Norway and a lower level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e347	Left thinks it's right that public administration is constantly renewing itself and employing new technologies to make the tasks as rational as possible, with fewer people. But the premise is that one puts the citizen in the center and performs his services in a good way. The state exists for the individual, not the other way around. The rationalisation of operations should lead to simpler and more efficient service and service production, not worse. Left-wing me we have to look at the possibilities, not the threats of technological development. The districts must do the same. One of the main challenges facing geographic edges in the future is to compete for labour, not least the well-qualified and advanced. Then societies must become attractive to modern people with many needs. Norwegian rural communities have many premonitions in this way and have to be able to exploit and develop them. Otherwise, we will point to two specific perspectives in this debate: Firstly, we must avoid rationalisation in public creating only new jobs in central Europe. The technology may make it reasonable to centralise some technical and administrative tasks, but they may as well lie in towns as in central urban areas. An active policy must be put in place to localise public enterprises to communities that need job access and that can at the same time satisfy the needs of the services for recruitment and the environment. The Prime Minister, including the transfer of the Coastal Directorate to Ålesund, said that this government was concerned that exemptions had to be specifically justified if one chose not to move out jobs. I expect a team to keep up with the decision to move the Aviation Agency's training centre to Teldensund for co-location with the fireball to exploit the expertise that exists there. Secondly, society must respect and take seriously the frustration that is taking place where one is now building down activity without any other tasks being done. Local communities that lose major public activities must have the attention of the big community and support for renewal and conversion. Individual societies and individuals must not be left with the entire bill after the country has reduced or discontinued operations. The left believes that Norway cannot meet tomorrow with structural conservatism and developmental spessimism. Technological developments offer many opportunities for greater freedom and more exciting tasks. Public bodies can make services easier to produce and thus better for users. As a result, many activities can be collected in service squares and in other ways, so that the same services can be provided with less effort. The Prime Minister named the city and country hand in hand. In this context, it is also important to point out that public and private jobs must be fairly equivalent and developed in the same communities. This means that you get the skills you need and recruit the personnel you need for both the public and the private. Exploiting the value and resources available in District Norway is unlikely to be important. There is an incredible amount of resources, value creation and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e367	There are some who say that this debate is about a development-specific or development-optimistic view. I believe that the debate is rather about being able to see the whole of the various individual decisions that are being taken, that this is essentially what this is about. I very much agree with the Prime Minister when he says that more political governance is needed. After all, the objective of this political governance must be interesting. It is that it must be equivalent and good living conditions throughout the country. Equivalence and good living conditions are a very broad composite concept. Some of the starting points, as I see it, when the decision to have impact assessments on the impact of decisions on regional policy was made – I did not put it on the Stortinget then – was that it was precisely the desire to develop such an overall perspective: how does this work? Now it's a very bit bit of bit policy – it's decided along the sector boundaries separately, and the whole thing becomes a little bit unclear. We can see that, because decisions suddenly come out differently across the country. I perceive that this was the starting point for Storting's decision at the time. I also understand that neither the government of Bondevik nor the government of Stoltenberg has been particularly interested in following up the decision made by Stortinget. I now understand from the debate that if we are to have such investigations, the Storting must re-adopt it, and then we have hope that perhaps new governments are willing to follow it up. Because it's important to see whole and not just bit by bit. It will be a sector-oriented way of discussing policy and not a holistic way. The work of the Task Distribution Committee is soon to be completed by the Government. In this context, it is desirable to see ‘the wholeness ahead of the part’, and that the effects of district policy are a very important part of it. There are many comments you could have had on the debate that has been taking place here, but I would like to say something to the representative Mr Bondevik mentioned. He mentioned a number of more or less fine-looking instruments that he thought the Storting should adopt. I have to say, I disagree a little. These are the industrial or district policy instruments under the SND or under the Ministry of Local Affairs. The SV’s attitude has always been that such funds should be collected in complete pots and given to municipalities and counties – or whether they become hotter regions – so that they can respond to their own needs and local conditions. Then we'll get the right tools, and we'll get the district policy effects of those that the districts are most concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e378	I noticed that the interpellant was generally in favour of modernising the public sector, but had many concerns when it comes to concrete action. So we recognize the center part from the last time they were in opposition. Offering people no change seems to be the idea of the Center Party, as it was the last time we were in the government position. During the 1990s, we had our skin full – if you can say so in parliamentary language, President – of changes in agricultural policy. Gunhild Eyeågen, then Minister of Agriculture, modernised agricultural policy. An important step in this context was, as they know from the outset, cereal and power-feed policy – a great deal of controversy about it. It was the Center Party very opposed, and we got a lot of shut up. It was not changed when the Senterparten came into government. Then what we had been told was continued. The same was true of the fisheries policy and of industrial policy. We can point to good examples, the Churches and Mo in Rana, where offensive local politicians and – not at random – workers' party rapporteurs have taken the lead in the process of conversion that has given security to the communities of tomorrow's business. But there has been a lot of trouble when the conversion has happened. Rena was an example of that. The rapporteur of the Central Party demanded that the Government of the Workers' Party should do something. The government of the Workers' Party did something and Mount Rena, but when the Senter Party arrived in the government offices, it turned out that it was not possible for them to climb Rena Karton – allegedly because of an EEA legislation that had not been changed in relation to the time we were in the previous government mountain Rena. My starting point is that conversion is difficult, and I think maybe for the sake of security in conversion processes it would have been of value if there was any greater connection between it a saying about such processes in the opposition, and what one does in the position. For there is no doubt that in these areas no one has promised as much and kept as little as the central government of which the representative Enoch was part. I have registered that the representative of Enoksen has now been in North Norway and explained why it was impossible to get another district policy for the Central Party when they were in government. Then my question becomes: Is it the Christian People's Party and the Left that are so hopeless in district policy that even with the Central Party in government it is impossible to get into usable district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e387	Day Terje Andersen was somewhat in doubt about parliamentary expressions. The President believes that the terms of the day Terje Andersen used can pass, as “shit” in parliamentary terms rarely need deeper than the skin.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e390	One of the really big problems in many districts is the lack of skills jobs. There is a recurring question in meeting with political management when I am on a municipal visit. Where does youth go? Those with education are gone, how do they get back? Or: What is the meaning of centralisation of state jobs in progress – business economy or social economy? The Christian People's Party wants living districts where people thrive, with good housing and work opportunities. This means the need for interesting and challenging jobs for both women and men. Then it becomes interesting for young people to move back after finishing education and making it easier for others to settle. In order to choose where to work, as the Prime Minister said in his statement, different jobs with different skills are required, so that you have a real choice. It is also necessary to increase the level of education of some of our districts. This part of the Government’s proposals on the reorganisation of public services has been presented, removing important areas of competence from which they really need, and co-location, conversion and efficiency should in particular be assessed in a consistent manner, with a view to seeing the ring-fence and real significance of local communities affected. Agriculture and other primary industries also need other jobs nearby to ensure the good development we want across the country. A few years ago, technology was supposed to save the districts. All the work was to be done from home with a computer/PC, and that was the same where you were sitting and working. The result so far is not, but it is now important in the future for broadband to be such that businesses and public activities across the country can benefit from the continuous development of new technologies and for business to become competitive outside the central strata. It also means actual competence in the districts. The national transport plan, which we have just dealt with in the Stortinget, had a strong focus on resources for central strata by the Government. For the Christian People's Party, it was important in dealing with this matter to get a better bet in the districts, among other things. in the case of increased road activity – especially in districts – and the strengthening of ferry services. Using political instruments, as the Prime Minister said, is actually important. Prosperity security is important both for housing and business. Good transport policy is also important, both to maintain and to develop new jobs in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e403	For example, the objective of public workplaces is: safe growing conditions. The drug is, among other things, the police in the streets and, for that matter, a well-functioning defence. But when I listen to the representative, Enoxsen, it sounds like the workplaces are the goal, not the means. Does the representative of Mr Enoksen think that the districts should be kept up by continuing with rational and professionally weak units, for example. small courtrooms or Equation Offices? Or does the representative see it the same way as the Labour Party, that this does not affect the districts, and that the option of more solid units that release hands to other tasks is not only better for the country, but also for the districts? Does the Senterpartiet and the representative of Enoksen mean that we should use 400 positions in the police for office work instead of in the streets? In case of damage to the districts, does the central party see more than the opposite? This includes, among other things: in the districts of these police officers shall work. I feel that the Center Party will allow more to go to most of the structure we now have, and not take on the very necessary task of establishing good professional units and twisting the effort from administration to service production. The centre party's option must become a crack option, either by being too expensive and running counter to its own crisis, or by being too poor, so that private solutions, such as the centre party or the working party, can become an attractive option for demanding and prosperous users. I want to invite the Center Party on a completely different layer in this context, based on the common goal of maintaining the settlement in the country and helping people to have a good supply in the districts. There should be a team that invests in day-to-day management – a brilliant action for people living in districts – a team that invests in public service offices – an action that has proved to be very good, for example. in the smallest municipality in Norway, Utsira – and a layer that will turn the effort from administration to services in the districts. The police officers who are released from the administration shall work in the districts and not be sent to Oslo. Those who become redundant in the Equation Act shall either move to the Equation Office of the neighbouring municipality or be offered to retrain to other occupations where there is a growing need. There have been some examples in places that have been hard because several public jobs have been laid down at the same time. It will tackle the Labour Party in two ways, as the Prime Minister said, by moving more government jobs out of Oslo, and by supporting the creation of new jobs in these places. And then when we now need 70 000–100,000 new hands in the public sector, it is necessary to release some of those hands from other professions. These new public positions, in kindergartens or institutions in health services, will be in the whole of the municipality of Norway and, to a large extent, in the districts. The difference is that one will work less with paper and more with people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e414	The Interpellant, in effect, asks the Government, with reference to the reorganisation of the Equation Court, the Police, the City and, to the extent possible, the Defence, to demonstrate the overall impact of the proposed conversion measures. He also pointed out that these measures could have dramatic consequences for many communities and districts in Norway. In fact, the situation in very many district municipalities has already become far too dramatic. I have therefore rarely seen a more passive approach to a problem that only accelerates more and more in a negative direction, and which fortunately begins to receive national attention. You could allow yourself to ask a counter-question: what will be the consequence if you do not aim to review and work for reorganisation, restructuring and modernisation? Every day in this country, we see examples of how we have postponed the necessary modernisation of the public sector. And when the answer to a serious question is more public servants out in District Norway, I'm afraid that this kind of policy under the grid of ‘more political governance’ has already contributed to a far too much depopulation of District Norway. We have in this nation increased the number of public employees by 60 pst. We are at the top of the rise in public employment across Europe. This development cannot continue. We have depopulated the fishing communities in this country with between 25 and 30 pst. in the same period, from 1970 until today. And then you have to ask yourself the question, where are the political solutions? The centre party has to ask itself the question – after being with and having a hand on the steering wheel, and have a majority for budgetary developments over the last ten years – whether or not to aim to navigate in a different direction. There is a systematic frontal attack on the competitive sector – the sector that is the stability and backbone of the development of District Norway. The Prime Minister referred to that 95 pst. the production of fisheries goes to the foreign market. I appreciate that both the Prime Minister and the interpellant are competent enough to avoid referring to the market situation, EU membership and EEA-related issues. The EEA Agreement will wind up the Centre Party, and the Workers' Party would rather not talk about the market situation – at least not before the elections. But it has almost become so that today the only thing we can export duty-free to the EU is thousands of jobs in the fish processing industry, jobs that we would more than ever have had in District Norway. It would have been a constructive contribution to development, at least to a greater extent than referring to the development of equality offices and legal systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e423	To the last article: The situation is actually that changes in ownership of, for example: the breeding industry is and will be a far more important cause of the disappearance of processing jobs than access to markets. It's not that it's the Christian People's Party and the Left that have blocked the opportunities to pursue a better district policy. I was visiting Finnmark and explained both what we have done in relation to regional policy measures, what we have not been given in relation to the objectives we ourselves had set ourselves, and what we intend to do in the future. I've never said and I'm never going to say that everything the Center Party has done and got through to is perfect in terms of regional policy effects. Nor have we been able to achieve improvements in the municipal economy and the more freeing of the municipal sector, which I believe is absolutely necessary. We haven't reached our targets in this area. I'm honest enough to admit that. I admitted that while I was the Council of State. I also admit that when I'm in opposition. In fact, I think that someone else could also admit that sometimes you haven't quite managed to achieve the goals you've set. I don't think District Norway is maintained by public enterprises. I have traveled so much around this country that I have seen it. I have met company managers who are engaged, and met employees who are engaged – and who have faith in the future. There are, of course, many aspects of district policy that we could have affected in an inter-pelling debate, but now in a few days we are going to get a big message on district policy. My interpellation was aimed at one theme, the lack of impact assessments of what the Government is now implementing. I have not received an answer in relation to what the question was addressed. I myself live in a community that more or less overnight lost 300 jobs at the end of the 1980s/beginning of the 1990s in connection with the last major conversion process in Defence. A community of 6,000 people who lose 300 jobs actually equals 25 000 jobs in Oslo. It goes without saying that the kind of loss of jobs has consequences for a community. I don't understand that it's going to be hard to admit that this is the case, and that it creates problems for those who have built houses, and fears about the investments they've made in business in relation to homes or whatever it may be. No one who has been on Andøya for a trip and has seen the housing prices, or has heard about the problems of having dwellings in an area where there is such a strong dislocation that the bottom has left the housing market, needs to be in doubt about the consequences. I have not mentioned one word in my interview about the need for modernisation of the public sector. I deliberately avoided that part of the debate. What I was asking was what you were going to do to make an impact assessment of what you're doing now. It's not about what the Prime Minister tried to do, the lack of impact assessment on my part. In fact, the Prime Minister may think I was psychic when I was appointed Minister of State. But it is this government that has initiated what is itself called the modernisation project of the time, and it is proposed that the unit quota, it is said that the fishing industry must be reduced, the agricultural policy must not be reconciled, and a conversion leading to centralisation, larger units and job losses in the district of Norway began in a number of areas of public administration. I note that the entrance to this debate is chosen. I don't think District Norway deserves that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e436	I think this has been a useful debate. There is broad support for strengthening the public sector. That's why it has to be renewed, not least for the sake of Foreign Norway, and I gave many examples of it in my first answer, and refers to it. But the main point is that, not least, outreach municipalities depend on good public welfare services to maintain housing and jobs. Let me still make some reflections as well. One is that, in fact, although there is disagreement about important elements, there is a broader consensus in Norway than in almost all other Western industrialized countries that we should pursue an active district policy. That's important, and that's something we're going to take care of in our country. Rather, we will continue to discuss individual elements, but we will know that we are betting more in the districts of Norway than in other countries. That's good, because it's important to maintain a more widespread settlement than that, for example. Our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, have joined forces. We've been to Finnmark. I believe that Finnmark is a great state and a state where there is a lot going on, a lot of optimism, but where it is also that the big community has taken a responsibility to help maintain housing and employment to a greater extent than in other parts of the country, precisely because Finnmark is particularly vulnerable. We have done so, among other things. through broad support here in the Stortinget to introduce a zero employer tax, to introduce additional support for those wishing to establish new private businesses, to have zero electricity tax, to have zero VAT on electricity, to have lower top tax, to have lower net tax and general tax, to have a separate tax deduction for all those who tax in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, to have extra high child benefit, to have a separate system for depreciation of student debt, to have lower taxes on foreign flights, and to have other specific arrangements for Finnmark and Nord-Troms. It's good that we have the opportunity to gather on such a policy, but it's also an expression that it's directed specifically at our northernmost part of the country, more than on other fringes. The second thing I want to say is that it is obvious that for some municipalities not only what is happening in the private business sector, but also what is happening in the public sector, demanding changes. That is why we take specific action against some individual municipalities, and I also explained it in my first answer. But I would also like to say that we have many examples, which the representative Dag Terje Andersen was in for, of successful conversions that are at least as demanding as those we are now facing. I myself worked with the Churchnes community when we closed down the A/S South Warehouse. It was 700-800 jobs that disappeared. Now there is optimism and progress towards and more jobs there than a few years ago. Mo i Rana is another example. Rena Karton is a third example. So we've managed changes before and we're going to be able to deal with them in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e447	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e459	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e470	The aim of this Communication is to discuss and clarify key values related to the planning, development and operation of the Norwegian healthcare system. Not surprisingly, there is a broad consensus on the overall values. The population shall have equivalent and good access to high-quality healthcare, irrespective of residence and the personal economy. Health policy must be based on respect for human dignity and a strengthened legal position for the individual. The user's own views and choices must be respected, and the individual is entitled to individual treatment and protection and respect for their integrity. It is important to stimulate debate on values and this Communication is a good starting point for health education, professional organisations, the different workplaces, patient organisations and society in general to discuss the value base of Norwegian healthcare. It is important to maintain an overall perspective in relation to the individual patient’s needs, and it must be at the heart of quality work. It is obvious that users and relatives are included in the planning and development of healthcare. There are still major problems and challenges related to capacity, lack of qualified health professionals, access to resources, priorities and organisation in healthcare. Within psychiatry and cancer care, the Stortinget has adopted its own action plans, precisely because these areas have been neglected for a long time. Unfortunately, many people feel powerless in meeting healthcare. An overall committee believes that the meeting between the patient and the health workers is the actual test of whether healthcare is human and ethically sound. The individual patient must be viewed and met on the basis of his own assumptions and from a holistic view of man. This is essential for the development of individual treatment and care plans. Patient satisfaction through user surveys is an important basis for improving the quality of health-Norway services. The majority, the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, are pleased that the Government provides for a state acquisition of the public hospitals and their exemption as independent legal entities. Such a reform will be much better able to provide more equivalent health care to those who need it. We will come back to this when the government has filed a case for the Stortinget in April. New knowledge of genetics and medical biotechnology will open up a range of research and treatment methods that will be more effective and have fewer adverse reactions than the methods available today. An overall committee believes that the management of this knowledge must take place in a way that does not violate human dignity and increases the risk of sorting people by attributes. The size will return to the various themes of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act notified by the Government in the summer. The use of new medical knowledge means that the outer boundaries of life are shattered and give greater opportunity to influence conception, birth and death. This development will result in difficult balances in the clinical work of hospitals. The Committee therefore supports the establishment of clinical ethics committees in all central and regional hospitals. These committees shall contribute to the training of health professionals and to the awareness of health care values and how to deal with, master and solve the difficult ethical issues of the clinical everyday life. They shall also have the central task of raising awareness of ethical issues related to resource use and priorities. Often, individual cases deal with issues of resource use and overall decisions on efficiency that could have consequences for individuals. An overall committee considers that clinical ethics committees are a necessary part of a sound hospital operation. Such a scheme should also include nursing homes, psychiatric institutions and care for mentally retarded persons. The Committee also follows up the proposal of the Wage II Committee to set up medical disciplines to advise on health care priorities within its disciplines and to provide a basis for the work of the Multidisciplinary Coordinated Priority Committee, which has already been appointed. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre, believe that there must be room for private health services as a complement and alternative to public health. Voluntary, non-profit and commercial enterprises have contributed to the diversity of healthcare services and provided real choices to users. Private alternatives allow new forms of operation to be tested and there is a significant learning potential, including for public institutions, in terms of efficiency improvement and better use of resources. A second majority, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that essential tasks in the education and health and care sector should not be put on the market and left to private parties, but that the main weight of these tasks must be addressed through public authorities. However, the entire Committee considers that a varied labour market can help to bring more people back to the profession. The majority, all except the Advance Party, believe it is important to ensure popular governance with the whole, the quality and distribution of the offers. In the case of life support, the Committee stresses that the provision of unwholesome sick and dying needs to be an integral part of normal health care and that access to hospice becomes part of it. Active death aid is contrary to Norwegian law, and the Committee maintains the ban on active death aid. The community cannot authorize healthcare professionals to go into the opposite role of ethics doctors and other health professionals have in our culture. Nor can it be a task for the public to decide whether a person's life is meaningless, or not worth living. The goal must be that care at the end of life can meet the need for security and dignity. Care at the end of life is a central and demanding task in healthcare, because it deals with more than traditional care and treatment. The lack of knowledge of pain relief in healthcare professionals is a problem, and health services lack systematic knowledge of medical practice in this field. The Committee considers that there is a need to strengthen care for the dying and those with an incurable disease and asks the Government: assess the role of hospitals and hospitals in providing patients with a caring and dignified death strengthen knowledge of care for the dying in health education strengthen clinical research to improve information for patients on pain relief, access to expertise, access to hospice and other emotional and spiritual assistance to ensure that patients who have signed my life testament are respected and that treatment is used to make them feel safe that their wishes are respected; As regards health priorities, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, considers that the guidelines, as proposed in NOW 1997:18 Re-priorities, should be taken into account. It is not always as easy to carry out this priority in the clinical everyday life. Psychiatric, geriatric, rehabilitation and pain-relieving treatment are areas that are under-prioritised, including: due to low professional status and lack of knowledge, and there is a significant shortage of qualified professionals. The Committee unanimously supports a proposal from the Right to establish a geriatric research programme to strengthen research efforts in geriatrics, both to improve diagnostics and treatment and to strengthen the field of research in general. It could help recruit more doctors and nurses to the geriatrics. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, believe that it is appropriate to consider introducing classified excesses for some low-priority healthcare services and that moderate use of propensity does not conflict with a fair distribution of health goods. An overall committee underlines the need to protect the chroniclers and others with a high need for health care through a new self-interest covering the costs of health care and medicinal products that are currently not covered by the ordinary self-interest. In the case of alternative medicine, the Committee considers that there is a need for a review of a number of factors relating to the location of alternative medicines and alternative treatments in traditional healthcare. An overall committee supports a proposal from the Right for a roll-out report on alternative medicine. There is a major lack of knowledge and lack of gender mainstreaming in health policies and services. Knowledge takes far too much on the basis of man's physiology and course of life. It has to end. An overall committee therefore asks the Government to follow-up the 1999 NO.13 on women’s health in Norway through a monitoring report. Remembering this relationship should be an appropriate conclusion to my post. I recommend the other committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e535	The saying once said, "There's a lot of pain here in the world. But it's very good too." Yes, it's very bad here in the world, even here in our country. It is disease and poverty, waiting lists and suffering we cannot yet cure – areas that have been neglected for a long time. But it's very good too: good hands give care and care. There are changes and improvements in organisation and priority. Disadvantaged areas have been prioritised, such as: psychiatry. Valuation, good choices, should provide better health and treatment for all, no matter where in the country a living or how rich or poor one is. The Value Communication discusses key issues of value in the Norwegian healthcare system related to the planning, development and operation of the Norwegian healthcare system in the future. In the reform policy that has gone beyond the last decade, resource escalation has been emphasised through several escalation plans and through the modernisation of many laws. The focus is on human resources both in education and in the distribution of health professionals, and a lot of development work has been done to improve job sharing and organisation. And it is committed to health promotion and prevention. Psychiatric and cancer escalation plans are in progress. Disadvantaged areas are a priority. Appropriations for health have increased significantly. The waiting lists have become shorter, everyone has received an offer for a permanent doctor, and we are facing the biggest reorganisation of the Norwegian hospital system of the time. Medical and technological developments are moving rapidly. National action must be taken to ensure that everyone is given a share in the new offers. Our health offer is at a high level. More than ever, more than ever, have surgery. An increasing number of diseases can be treated. Every day, thousands of Norwegian health workers do a huge job. But there are also problems. Hospitals have more expenditure than income, and health services are not as well run everywhere. These problems will get bigger if we don't get more overall governance. Solving the problems in hospitals is not just a matter of money, it is also an organisational issue. That's why we have to change. Our hospital service is a public responsibility, and it should continue to be. Hospitals shall be essentially owned and controlled by the public. Some have tried to refer to hospital reform as privatisation. That's wrong. The hospital reform is based on the state acquiring ownership and funding of hospitals, against now municipal ownership and state funding. Such overall state responsibility must be based on the main structure developed in the established health regions. Regional and national coordination shall ensure the maintenance of a decentralised structure, while effectively exploiting the possibilities for the exchange of capacity and knowledge in service provision and treatment. This makes it possible to balance differences and to provide equivalent and good services to the whole population. Conversion into limited liability companies is incompatible with such a model and contrary to the Labour Party's policy. We clearly told you about this when Stortinget dealt with the law on county hospital companies, and we say that clearly about now. The matter of state acquisition has been discussed and has been very controversial – a lot on the wrong basis in my opinion. 100 pst. state ownership of the hospital companies is, according to my concepts, no privatisation. There are contracts with private people today, and in the view of the Workers' Party, this can only be a supplement to the public. Such offers are part of the public health plans today, and it would be natural for such plans and agreements to continue even if they take over the ownership of hospitals. This is essentially about hospitals owned and run by non-profit institutions such as the Red Cross Clinic, the Celebrating Clinic and Hospital owned by the Sanitation Association, mostly rheumatism hospitals. We do not want the privatisation of health services that contribute to competition for health crowns and that can create a growing distinction between patients with good and bad finances. The main objectives of health policy are to ensure access to good and equivalent health services to everyone wherever we live in the country, or how much or little money we have. Hospitals are also some of the largest knowledge, research and development companies in the country. Future-oriented and promising areas such as medicine and biotechnology are maintained in hospitals. Hospitals are an exciting job for a wide range of professional groups and are an important prerequisite for security and well-being in all parts of the country. The number of medical staff has increased by 50 pst. in the last 10 years. We have most doctors in relation to the inhabitants of all countries in Europe. Nevertheless, we experience lack of body. We spend more money in Norwegian hospitals than ever. Nevertheless, advanced equipment remains unused for large parts of the day. Operational rooms are empty in the middle of the day, and hospital doctors treat fewer patients than before. If we are to improve the quality of health services, we need more interaction between hospitals and between hospitals and primary health services. The primary health service is strengthened by the fact that we all get fixed. We now have the right to choose our own doctor, and she or he will be able to follow us over time. It gives you confidence. The notification of value reviews a number of actions under way in the Norwegian health system. I will briefly just mention some of them: Clinical ethics committees have been tested for six years and have been established in seven hospitals until now. They were evaluated in 1998 and are recommended to be established in all central and regional hospitals. Voluntary organisations have a long tradition of active participation in the design and operation of healthcare and do a good job. And we hope that they keep going. Public health work has been regularly discussed in Stortinget. The United Kingdom has now announced that the Government has launched a national public health action plan. The plan will provide a broad review of developments in the 1990s, as a basis for planning efforts in this area in the coming years. This means that the plan will constitute both health promotion and prevention. The size will be briefed on this, it is said, and there will also be health policy presentations at intervals of a few years, as has been done in the past. The Value Communication deals with important areas that I could spend more time on individually, but they are well mentioned in the Committee's position. For example, care for dying areas is very important. A unanimous committee asks for a roll-out on alternative medicine and an assessment of the establishment of a geriatric research programme. The State Health Authority has set up a specialist body for women’s health, which will be a central tool in dealing with typical women’s diseases. There is a need to promote gender equality in healthcare. Too much knowledge is based on the physiology and life cycle of men, as emerged in NOU 1999: 13 on women’s health in Norway. It is important that this work is followed up. I think the message is a good message, and the rapporteur has done a good job. We thank you for that. We are pleased with the work and the review that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e591	It is today the first time that the Storting treats a large-scale message with value issues as its main theme. The message was presented by the central government and was not withdrawn at the government change. Both this fact and the examination of the notification in the Committee suggest that there is a high degree of consensus on the basic values of Norwegian healthcare, although we can come to various outcomes in practical policy. This basis is made clear in the introduction, where the Government emphasises that it will: ‘representing a policy that focuses on a solidarity and humane society with people who are aware of each other and who care for the weakest. The principle that each individual has an inviolable value shall form the basis for the work’. In this way, the inviolable human dignity of each human being is centered. This is important. For there are many actors in health care, and there are strong interests of a professional, economic and political nature. The health prophecies have great power, but I would say that the most dangerous concentration of power seen by the patient today is a government that, through state ownership and governance, will hinder the patient's ability to have real influence through elected representatives. The main person of the human health system is the patient. The patient means the sufferer, and the health care service’s task is to relieve and, if possible, heal — and, in addition, to be increasingly important: to prevent. Here, too, the central government has gone ahead with a good example. Increased focus on exercise and nutrition is important. But it is a fact that 10 000 people in Norway die each year of tobacco, alcohol and drugs. A value-based healthcare service needs to put more effort into addressing these threats to public health. It is gratifying that the World Health Organisation will now follow up its fight against tobacco and drugs with a settlement with the alcohol industry. Public information is also needed here, not least in relation to lying claims about alleged positive health effects of alcohol use. Closeness, equality and quality are accepted values for health services in Norway. But good goals can also come into competition and conflict with each other. I would suggest that, in the future, medical developments will lead to an increasing conflict between the objectives of proximity and quality. Here, we're going to have difficult balances that don't give a fascist answer. Human dignity is at the heart of the debate on value. For the Christian People's Party, human dignity stands as completely indivisible and not possible degrees. Bible human dignity is linked to man’s being created in God’s image. No other creature has this stamp. This human dignity is independent of function, health, sex, age or other conditions. Because human dignity is linked solely to being human, it must also be that human dignity begins at the beginning of human life, that is, at conception, and lasts for life. Human dignity is linked to human life, and the right to life is and becomes the fundamental human right. That is why the Christian People's Party has also made proposals to legitimize the right to life. The greatest danger to human dignity is that it is graduated, as it has already happened to the unborn child. It is worth remembering that such grading of human dignity can happen and has happened, in part also, for born humans. Human life and human dignity are vulnerable especially in their first and final stages, and need special protection. This we will come back to in later articles from the Christian People's Party. Among the important issues that have been highlighted by the Committee is the ethical work in the health sector. Health services are still confronted with ethical issues that change in response to medical developments. Ethical awareness, for example through ethics committees in hospitals, is therefore important. In this area, new knowledge is still needed, and awareness of ethical issues is needed. Indeed, it is not the case that high levels of professional or scientific competence are necessarily accompanied by an equivalent ethical assessment capacity. Once one of the giants of biomedicine in the last century has been exposed as an ethical illiteracy, one cannot avoid being frightened. I hope and believe that the Storing Communication on values for Norwegian healthcare will be a good basis and working document for healthcare in the years to come. I would like to commend the rapporteur for the review of the communication, and hope that the Committee has made a small contribution through its suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e618	I can't wait to start with a line to the representative Are Næss, who initially said that the current government with its hospital reform will deprive patients of real influence, because it no longer becomes elected bodies to control the hospital business. It could be tempting to ask the question to the representative Are Næss: how is the patient influence today, with so-called popular governance? Yes, we have 300,000 patients in the hospital queue, we have problems in the care of the elderly, in the care of the russian population and across the mountain. I really want to welcome the new reform. In the present situation, an overall social committee initially states that the population should have an equivalent and good access to high-quality healthcare, regardless of where they live in the country, and regardless of the individual’s economic situation. This has been stated by a majority of different social committees for more than 25 years – without the same politicians having taken the consequences of this, as we per year. The current date shows that hospital services vary greatly from county to county, and it is the sincere opinion of the Advance Party that it is now high time that we were given a state-wide responsibility for the public hospital. The St.meld. No 26 for 1999-2000, whether values for the Norwegian healthcare service, which the setting deals with, are essentially a thick document with of course. The most important value to be borne by the health care system is the provision of professional treatment to Norwegian citizens within professionally sound deadlines. I would like to claim that the public health service and we here at Stortinget until today have not fulfilled this value requirement. St.meld. No 26 often mentions, and in various contexts, the ethical and value-related position of healthcare professionals in relation to patients. But I have not found a single word in the big message, nor in the setting, about the value requirements that should be imposed on us as central politicians, who are responsible for access to public health resources. In my opinion, all of us here in Stortinget have a clear responsibility for that treatment offer, or lack of it, in our public health services per year. the date of issue. If we are to have a health service in Norway that focuses on and takes into account the patient’s values and quality of life, we need to have a health service that is more patient- and customer-driven. I hope that the new hospital reform will bring about a good deal of internal reorganization in our hospitals so that users/patients will have a greater right of participation over their own situation and treatment. However, if we are to have a customer-led healthcare system, we must introduce the principle that the money should accompany the patient to the treatment site. Unfortunately, we have not come that far, and there is also – regrettably – no scheme for this in the draft consultation that the Minister of Health has had on the state takeover of hospital operations. The story of the merciful Samaritan is a school example of the money following the injured one. Apart from the picture of the merciful Samaritan on the front page of the big message, there is little in the message that follows what was told in Luke 10, regarding new thoughts about another financing of our hospital treatment. In general, on behalf of the Advancement Party, I would argue that we have a health professional with high morals and good ethics, even if exceptional cases exist. There are few complaints about health professionals in our public hospitals in general, but there are exceptions, also very serious exceptions, where health professionals have shown to patients professionally unacceptable judgement – yes, in fact a lack of popularism. However, we should work hard on such cases instead of being a central politician to be a teacher of ethics and value issues for health professionals. Maybe fitness should be a recording criterion for all health professionals; it should be for doctors, nurses and other staff. The progress party is largely included in most of the majority comments in the vote, without me going into it here. But on behalf of the party, I would like to express some scepticism about setting up ethics committees in public hospitals. Although I have a certain scepticism, we have nevertheless joined the majority position in this area. But I would warn against re-establishing different selections, committees and groupings that will spend considerable time on travel and meeting activities inside and outside their own hospitals, instead of being in direct patient care. Today we have too much of this in most Norwegian hospitals, and we absolutely do not need any more. The Progress Party has its own minority proposal in the vote for which we have been criticized by others, but which we have nevertheless found necessary to promote. It is the proposal to transfer the Aricept medicine against Alzheimer’s disease to the usual bladder prescription system. For us, this is a highly topical value question. The special reimbursement scheme that one currently has is expensive and heavy to administer for the individual patient. And it's a clear under-use of the drug Aricept against Alzheimer's disease – we have approx. 2,300 users of the drug, while we get an access of about 7 000 new Alzheimer’s patients per year. The whole 70 pst. of patients in public hospitals have developed a heavy senile disease. The prescription of Aricept to Alzheimer’s patients has now been in operation for almost two years, and as far as I know, the results of the treatment are very uplifting. There will certainly be medicines other than Aricept on the market, but in any case: these drugs should be put on a blue prescription as soon as possible, and we propose that. Even the Alzheimer's patients, the senile units, have a self-esteem like humans. Not only can they be set aside but they have the same medical treatment and follow-up requirements as all other patients in somatic and psychiatry. Ethics and issues of value are not and shall not be just theory. It must have consequences not only in meeting with the individual patient, but should guide us as key health policy makers in facilitating accessibility, quality and access to resources, so as to maximise the well-being that is called ‘treatment, follow-up, rehabilitation’, etc. At the end of the day, I will address the minority proposals of the Advance Party, which have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e646	The representative Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e649	St.meld. No 26 for 1999-2000, on values for the Norwegian health service, was promoted by the central government and is similar to St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000, Content and quality of care services, Care 2000, up to a wide debate on values and ethics throughout the range of health and care activities. On the part of the Centre Party, I would like to make it clear that our entire health policy must be based on respect for human dignity and its inviolability. On the basis of the inviolable value of the individual, it is important to counter a development that adds up to a sort of human being. Every human being's life is in itself a goal, and respect for the individual must lead to the user's experience and choices being taken seriously, as is also stated in the setting. Such a starting point improves the quality and quality of healthcare and also strengthens the individual’s ability to master his or her own life. Human life has its greatest vulnerability at the beginning of life and at its end. It is therefore of the utmost importance that human dignity be given high priority in these phases of life. It is of great importance that our health services have as high a standard and a quality as possible, among other things. through the deployment of resources, through up-to-date medical-technical equipment and methods and through education, research and development. However, if one is to meet the objective of putting the patient and the individual in the centre, and not just allowing this to become fine speech, one aspect in particular needs to be given priority, and there is time – time for diagnosis, time for treatment and time for care, rehabilitation and care. As an overall committee, it expresses: ‘... individual patients must be met and ‘saw’ by health workers on the basis of their own assumptions and from a holistic view of man.’ An important element in this context is, of course, the development of individual treatment and care plans. But if these plans are to be realized, there must be time to follow them up, by having time for the patient. This applies to all professional personnel involved with the patient, and to all aspects of treatment and care. This aspect of care has been easy to lose in relation to the need for efficiency, rationalisation and economic operation. At the moment that we have finished this matter today, the health debate will again be influenced by structural and governance measures to increase efficiency and create the most rational and cost-effective healthcare and hospital services. Of course, we should also have these perspectives with us, and work to eliminate unnecessary costs and barriers to efficiency is important. However, we do not meet the common interest in this setting we are now dealing with, if we do not recognise that health and care work must cost something extra if we are to take greater account of the patient. The right to rapid and safe treatment, regardless of living conditions, economic and social and functional status, must mean that we cannot cultivate the reasons for structural and efficiency, but rather give concessions to the fact that a health care system that puts the individual's value first, in the interests of patient safety, must cost more than a health care system based on some form of bonding. It's important that care ethics characterize our health care system from a to a. And it's also important that this characterizes us politicians, who lay the framework conditions for the same healthcare system. The centre party believes that important tasks such as our health and care services must be the responsibility of the public. Then we, who represent the public, must also be conscious of our responsibility. Private service provision has always been there and should also be stimulated for the future in terms of the large and unselfish efforts of voluntary organisations. However, as far as possible, the private offer must be integrated into public health plans and be complementary to public responsibility and supply. Ethics must be prioritised and followed up in practical work. It is therefore important that the Government return to the Storting with a statement of status and progress regarding the establishment of clinical ethics committees at all our central and regional hospitals. It is important that such ethical work is carried out continuously at all our health institutions, and that the Centres for Medical Ethics can coordinate this at national level. Here, too, the State Health Authority has an important role to play. At our universities and educational institutions, ethics must be made clearer on the agenda, and the value debate must be a continuous debate in relation to education and awareness of all actors in the health and care sector. The development of biotechnology means that important ethical fundamentals must be general guides, so that this does not end entirely on wild roads. The possibilities and challenges are many in this field, but in all this work it has to be borne in mind that the integrity of each person is inviolable. We need more resources and through that recognition have more time for the patient in our healthcare system. Nevertheless, we must give priority. In this context, it is important that the National Council for Health Priority is established and that we have medical professional groups in the various fields. Finally, I would also like to commend the case rapporteur on the presentation of the committee position here today. I have some more moments that I'll probably come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e680	It has been stressed by several of the previous speakers that it is a strength to have the same type of consideration in many fields in different lots. In particular, the conclusion has been drawn that in Norway we will have an equivalent health service offer, irrespective of the place of residence, age or financial situation of each individual, as the Committee also notes. I and SV agree with these considerations, namely that many areas in Norway will be able to agree on health care objectives and put them on a paper, so that they can later go back and assess whether the objectives have been achieved. The strength of the message itself related to values in the Norwegian health system is that most people will be able to join much of the value description. But while it's the strength, it's also some of the weakness. What you can wonder about is that you can agree with an objective of an equivalent health care service to the entire population, while at the same time the parties may have so different views on how that objective can be achieved. An example of this is just the proposal for a state hospital reform. I think there might be a lot of good reasons why the state is going to run the hospitals instead of the counties. But when, at the same time, a large degree of decoupling from popular governance – at least one can imagine the possibility of getting far fewer hospitals than today through a large degree of centralisation – one will very soon move away from the objective of an equivalent healthcare provision to the population. I therefore share some of the warnings that Are Næss made in his post, linked to the hospital reform. Otherwise, we have been through a period of reform that has been adopted by the Storting only during this period. I would like to highlight the firmness reform as a very important reform that can help create a new value base for healthcare in Norway, precisely because each person will be able to receive an offer for his or her own permanent doctor. It is also an offer that goes in the right direction, namely that the health care system ensures a decentralised anchoring and proximity to users. The size has also been through a reform linked to increased psychiatry spending, not least by means available in the different municipalities for strengthening that service. It is an important reform and an important effort related to the general population. We have received a new law on mental health protection, where it is not yet possible to say whether there is a proper approach taken, namely that coercive measures could also be taken in municipalities without prior introduction into institutions. Most importantly, it's about a value choice that you don't have today's fasit. There has been a significant increase in cancer-related investment through a cancer plan to be followed up over several years. There has been an important bet, and also a bet that most of the parties in the Biggest have been able to join. There has also been a commitment to the reform of the elderly, which may have become a very strong commitment to increased health care provision more than to the values associated with the care of the elderly as such and the ethical values associated with that care. So there it'll still be a way to go. In connection with the document we are discussing today, I would like to highlight two areas in particular, which I think are important in the future. One is the question of priorities in the healthcare sector. What we've seen over and over again is that when you come to concrete value choices where you have to choose different alternatives, it's hard for politicians to make that choice, especially when it's related to priorities. It may be a good move for us to have received the National Council for Health Priority, but if politicians do not be able to follow the Council with clear majority decisions showing the direction of policy, it will not be possible for the Council to contribute to solutions alone. I would also like to point out the major challenge facing us in different aspects of biotechnology and the place of biotechnology in the future healthcare system. There will be significant economic reasons for doing so. Because if we go into the field of biotechnology with full weight, there will be significant costs associated with it. But the most important element of biotechnology is the ethical choices we face. Until now, it has been unclear which direction the government will choose. It is very much about important value choices that we will face in the coming years, with the opportunities that technology carries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e695	The left will agree with the Committee's position. It is important that the values associated with the planning, development and operation of health services are discussed and clarified. The user's views and choices must be respected, and everyone must have individual treatment and protection and respect for their integrity. We know that very many of the complaints raised by health professionals are just about violating these values, what users experience as infringing situations. When we talk about a better health service, we are talking about a great deal of experience, ability to be attentive to the user's situation, warmth, open communication, and the best way to make users feel respected. The left is in agreement with the committee that we have a good health service in the country. Nevertheless, the gap between what it is possible to do and what we have resources to – whether it is personnel or money – is growing and we are experiencing a ‘anticipation crisis’. Those who are politicians must increasingly be involved and prioritised, so that the funds are used in a good way. I would particularly like to mention how important it is that not so-called status diseases are assigned, but that health services are used in such a way as to eliminate differences in living conditions, health status, functional level and disease conditions. Priorities shall be based on the severity criterion, the expected benefit of treatment and the cost effect of the action. It is disappointing that the escalation plans for psychiatry and cancer care are not in line with the increasing need and technical progress that is taking place. The left, as a plurality of the committee, points out that one must have annual reviews and corrections of these plans. It is also disappointing to hear about the depriority of prevention measures, such as the school services, health centre activities and maternity checks. These are well-implemented health services, for which there is a good application, and for which those seeking are motivated to put in place measures that are better for health. We have to afford this to last. When it comes to recruitment to health settings, we know that we are facing major challenges. We do not avoid improving the quality of work and pay for both nurses and caregivers. It is also important that health services develop modern organisational models that promote learning and self-employment among all in order to increase employment. The majority of health-related issues are addressed by most of them. Therefore, it is also important that health policies are largely created where people are. The new reform The Government is now planning, with the state takeover of specialist health services, going contrary to and removing important health issues from the political arena. The left considers this centralisation project to have a democratic deficit, and will not contribute to the implementation of what it is supposed to do, without eliminating consequences for good and bad. The left will support the majority in the committee that my private health can be a complement to the public, but that private provision should be included in the public health plans. The principle when it comes to human dignity and values must be that everyone has inviolable self-esteem, regardless of gender, religion, social background, level of function, marital status, housing and ethnicity. The left's measure of policy is how individuals experience their everyday lives. One must measure this according to the expectations and needs of those who have the least. This is particularly true in the health sector. I want to bring out those who are perhaps the hardest in Norway today, who have the heaviest, simply our heavy drug addicts. Here, too, our health services have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e717	The message being received today was presented by the Bondevik government. In order to stimulate debate on the value base of healthcare, a booklet containing some key points of view from the communication and questions of reflection, discussion and discussion was prepared after the presentation. The booklet was widely distributed, and I would like to compliment the former Minister of Health on his initiative that the debate on values in healthcare is not limited to this room, but has also been brought out to the users and practitioners of health care. The attitude shows that there is a broad consensus on the value view to be used for the development of our healthcare, namely respect for human dignity and its inviolability. When it comes to the view of the value of life before birth, the political divisions become clearer. This will allow Stortinget to discuss further on later occasions, including: for the treatment of Ot.prp. No 77 for 1999-2000 in April this year in the context of the proposal for the regulatory regulation of the use of foetal tissues for medical purposes and in the spring of 2002 when the Government has submitted proposals for the evaluation of the Law on Medical Use of Biotechnology. Moreover, I must stress that on the basis of respect for human dignity, the most important value of health care must be to be able to provide good health services on equal terms to all those who need it, when they need it, regardless of age, sex, residence and economy. An overall committee is pleased that we have received our own action plans for psychiatry and cancer care and stresses the importance of reviewing these plans annually by the department so that we are sure that maps and terrain are consistent. The Committee feels uncertain that this is the case, and a majority requests the Government to carry out an annual reassessment and correction of those plans. This gives me reason to recall that these plans are reviewed and corrected in connection with the annual budget proposals for the Storting. The Government remains committed to implementing the plans in accordance with the Storting decision. The roadmap for mental health is closely followed up, both through annual reports and through a separate evaluation mission to the Norwegian Research Council. Adjustments to instruments are regularly considered, with the emphasis on the need to design comprehensive services in accordance with the needs of users and on the preferences of users. Offers must be based on the greatest possible volunteering and on a normal life for users, thus promoting independence, independence and mastery. In the case of the Cancer Plan, the training capacity of radiographers was increased when the need turned out to be greater than originally assumed. Studies on digital mammography and radiographic training have been carried out and regular contact with professional settings and health regions is maintained to address the need for adjustments. I'm not saying this because everything is very well in the areas covered by the two action plans. On the contrary, it is necessarily the case that once it has been set up for several years to reach a satisfactory level, this level will not be reached until the plans have been implemented. But I believe that there are good follow-up and reporting procedures for the plans. The majority of the Committee considers that it is appropriate to consider introducing classified excesses for some low priority healthcare services and that moderate use of propensity does not conflict with a fair distribution of health goods. In my view, the majority of the committee here raises important questions of principle in relation to the distribution of health goods in society. As the majority point out, the demand will be almost unlimited when healthcare is provided free of charge by the public. We will therefore be faced with a problem of distribution which, both in principle and in practice, is very demanding. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in our society that the price and market mechanism is not suitable for solving this problem. We therefore need to continue to develop appropriate practical methods to manage and distribute scarce health goods. I don't see the established system of prostheses in the health sector as an expression of either market-based pricing or a tax on health care. However, it should be an important signal to us as ordinary users that services are not completely free of charge. At the same time, the assumption must be that the system is combined with good protection systems, both for chroniclers and other major consumers and for those who, for various reasons, are unable to pay the excess. It should be recognised that our system of partiality is not perfect and should therefore be subject to ongoing assessment. Nor is it obvious that the use of propellants cannot conflict with respect to equality and fair distribution. In practice, it may also be difficult to identify what should fall within the concept of ‘low priority healthcare’. I would like to ask the National Council for Health Care Priority for a more detailed assessment of these issues. The Government is asked in the proposal for a decision to state the status and progress of setting up clinical ethics committees in all central and regional hospitals. I have taken note of the Committee's arguments for such committees and will come back to the Storting with a statement on this matter in the context of the 2002 State Budget. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee sees favourably the cooperation between the health services and the Church. I have met several of the Church's bodies and in this context I have also decided to hold annual contact conferences between the Church and the Ministry on how best to meet the health challenges. The first conference will take place later this year. At the same time, I will place great emphasis on the development of contact and cooperation with other religious communities and with other non-governmental organisations on similar issues. The government is also asked to consider establishing a geriatric research programme focusing on applied patient-related research under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council. I have also noted the majority's emphasis on the importance of continuing the Age Research Programme in Tromsø, and will come back with an explanation of these issues in the State budget for 2002. In the third motion for a resolution, the government is asked to provide a big message on alternative medicine, based on the Aarbakke Committee's attitude. I believe that there is good reason to strengthen the efforts in alternative medicine, among other things. in the case of increased research and through cooperation with other countries. In this regard, I place great emphasis on cooperation with the Norwegian Research Council and with the National Competence Centre for Alternative Medicine at the University of Tromsø. In this area too, it is important that non-governmental organisations, user experience, etc. are actively involved in the work. This will be emphasised in the further work on the issues raised by the Committee. The high level of consensus expressed in the Committee on the Value Base for Health is a good foundation for new health reforms, and is also the basis of the Government’s proposal on the state takeover of the specialist healthcare service. The solidarity objectives of health policy shall be maintained and further developed, and healthcare shall remain under political control. The Committee takes the view that health policy should be based on respect for human dignity and ensure a fair distribution of rights and obligations, equality and equal access to services and a strengthened legal position for each user. The continuation of this value base, in my opinion, also requires the continuation of the unlimited public responsibility for the provision of health services in society, with a critical focus on public ownership and funding. Within the framework of such unlimited public responsibility, it is important to develop a better and more comprehensive interaction with private actors in the health sector. This shall be done without any change in the price of privatisation of public health services or a market orientation in which the private purchasing power of the individual becomes essential for access to health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e753	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e756	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is behind the valuation promoted by the Bondevik government. The Communication emphasises the particular importance of equality, care and respect for human dignity in helping seriously ill and dying people. The Christian People's Party will be involved in and strengthen and improve the service of this group, so that it can be made possible for the individual to be at home as much as possible if one wishes. From experience, one knows that this can be tiring for those who are closest to the patient. In the lake and Ashim, a model has been tried out called TERMIK. It is linked to the volunteer centres, which are conducting courses and schools on a voluntary basis. The volunteers relieve relatives who have dying persons living at home. For example, a task may be: be that they sit and wake up with the sick one. The volunteers do not care, they do not take over the work of home health care, but help the family with more practical work. Experience has been good. The relatives are being relieved. Does the Council of State think that this is something you should develop further? Since the United Nations has designated 2001 as the Year of Volunteering, it might be particularly helpful to support non-governmental organisations this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e767	I am familiar with the model that the representative Woie Duesund here refers to, and I also know similar examples in the hospice service and other actions directed by non-governmental organisations or individuals. I absolutely believe that this is important for care and care in a final phase of life, and also believe that there are models that we should stimulate through public health policy. Whether it can also be marked in the context of the UN flag referenced here will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e774	The Minister of Health said that the Government assumes that the population should have an equivalent and good access to health care whenever you need it, wherever you live and independently of the personal economy. That view shares the rest of the Storting too. But this doesn't seem to apply to all pregnant and birthing, especially in the districts. A look-up in the evening post yesterday shows that only a few Norwegian municipalities offer pregnant services for the midwife service they are entitled to under the law. The consequences for many are too poor maternity care and poor follow-up of women after returning from a maternity or hospital. I would argue that the quality of care at the beginning of life is as important as the quality of care at the end of life. This is also about a different value, that users' own views and choices must be respected, and that individuals are entitled to individual treatment. The unwillingness of local authorities or perhaps the ability to provide necessary midwife services has led to the establishment of private practices by several midwives. I have nothing against that in principle if the public had been responsible for financing this. But the pregnant women have to pay for the consultation, pregnancy control, childbirth preparation and follow-up after birth. This situation is not in line with the Storting's intention of accessing good health care, irrespective of residence and the personal economy. The consequences are in many places that those who can afford it buy midwife services, while those who can't afford it don't get an offer even if they want it and need it. How does the Minister of Health feel that this harmonizes with the values of healthcare? And what will the Minister of Health do to ensure a good midwife service in all municipalities? In November, the Minister of Health here in Stortinget said that the midwife service meets the reasonable requirements and, above all, the intentions contained in the legislation. Does the Minister of Health think this still applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e785	There are differences in the offers within the Norwegian healthcare service. There are a lot of differences that I have also described as completely unacceptable, and I also believe that the state of the seventh and last have a responsibility to do something with these differences. In addition, differences occur despite the fact that the provision of the services in question is subject to local government control. I also believe that such local public administration of healthcare in itself is not a guarantee of equality in the offers to anyone who needs them. The question of differences in the midwife’s service, the quality of it around the country, as the representative Sjøli refers to, has previously also been mentioned in this room. I have stressed that, first of all, it is a municipal responsibility to ensure that these services meet the requirements of the law. I believe that they are equally good and in accordance with both the law and the principles underlying the valuation. But I am perfectly aware that there are deviations from this that we cannot call acceptable. There are some areas where we don't have the necessary authority to impose some of the benefits that a large number of municipalities provide, but not all. In other areas, there is also likely to be a weakness in the priorities of individual municipalities, where appropriate in the context of their economic situation. It is a task to remedy such weaknesses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e792	It has again been suggested from this pulpit today that the new hospital reform should entail the closure of a number of local hospitals. I ask that the Minister of Health now demand this from this chair again. In terms of medical research in our country, we are quite far from many other European countries, not least in relation to our neighboring Scandinavian countries, where we are in fact in about a few. half of public funding for both basic and clinical research. We've done a lot of work on the research page. This is about cancer research, not least genetic and biotechnology research that comes too far, where we should definitely be at the top international level, about geriatrics and drug abuse, and there are many other things. My question to the Minister of Health in this context is: Does this government have a stepping-up plan to make funds available for medical research? And could the Minister of Health possibly say something about such a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e801	Firstly, I can confirm once again that there are no – and I repeat no – elements in the proposal for hospital reform that we are now working on, and that will be promoted to Stortinget in a few weeks' time, which means something in the direction of shutting down neither local hospitals nor other units within the Norwegian specialist health service. With regard to the question of research asked by the representative Alvheim, the government is working on an escalation plan for research efforts in general in Norway with a view to addressing what is the average OECD level for the combination of public and private funded research. That's the one. Within this research plan medical research is one of five priority areas. That's what the government is working on, and what we're going to do in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e808	Public health work is very important and is at the bottom of most of it in terms of both preventive and therapeutic health. It is enough to mention keywords such as municipal health centres, school health services, the relationship between drug abuse and public health, and the costs that in this context the health care system continues to bear. The central government intended to present its own public health report in spring 2001 — that is, at these times. We have now received signals from this government and from the Minister of Health that they will not deliver a big message, but will provide an action plan for public health work. It's here, among other things. a large public inquiry conducted for consultation in the spring of 1999. As public health work is so important, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he will help the Stortinge to deal with such an action plan when it is presented as a plan and not as a big message. Then the Minister of Health was in his speech about excesses. Not very long ago, a certain degree of uncertainty was created about the health minister’s statements in relation to the peculiarities of hospital treatment. I would like to clarify the question and the statements made in the media about this with future thoughts about excesses and possible excesses in hospital treatment. And then finally: the user organisations and this with user involvement were also mentioned. And I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he is satisfied with the scheme he himself had when it came to the hearing in connection with the state's acquisition of the hospitals, and precisely the possibilities of user organisations to influence that consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e819	The representative of Lutvold asked three specific questions. As far as public health work is concerned, I have noticed that the minority prefers to see a message drawn up in line with the proposal in the valuation. When I have been in favour of a national action plan in this area, it is because, like the Committee, I believe that this is a work that should be strengthened and that it is urgent to realise the intentions contained in the communication on this point. Therefore, I believe that it is now more appropriate to go right on the matter, but the Stortinget will in any case be kept informed about the content and efforts of this plan, partly in connection with any proposals for appropriations and partly in legislative proposals, if the plan were to do so. In the case of excesses, I addressed it in my speech because I believe that the majority of the Committee here raises a very important and significant issue related to our future health policy. I look forward to further discussion, as I mentioned, both in relation to the National Council for Health Priority and, of course, also in relation to the proposals that are suitable for such discussion in the Stortinget. As far as media storage is concerned for some time, they do not have the basis for any plans to introduce excesses in hospitalisations. With regard to user involvement, I am largely satisfied with the process we had in the consultation round. There were some accidental omissions by user organisations, but they were caught later, so we also received statements from these organisations. And I believe that we will also take good account of the opinions that have come from user organisations through the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e832	I asked for a reply on the basis of the State Council, Tønne responded to that with the hospital reform and the possibility of hospital closure. There is no one in this Chamber who believes that the Council of Tøn comes up with a list of proposals for hospital closures in connection with the reform proposal. The question is, when you add up a model of enterprises, i.e. parent enterprises and subsidiaries, whether you have so-called professional boards. Can the Council of State Tøn say something about the kind of process in which, for example, the parent enterprise and the board of directors of the parent enterprise take the initiative to reduce the number of hospitals? In Northern Ireland, there are seven hospitals, and one may find that there will be too many hospitals – you want to run with profits. As far as I understand, it will also be that the financing model itself should be determined through the Council of State and not the Stortinge. Can the Council of State then explain in what way political environments could prevent governments from taking initiatives to reduce the number of hospitals, if those initiatives had to come from the boards linked to the business model?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e842	These are issues that will be raised for discussion in Stortingen in connection with the currently under preparation odelstningsproposition which is planned to be presented at the end of the next week. It will then be a good opportunity for the Storting to come back to these questions. But at least I could say, without predicting the content of this, that the kind of question here is about, in any case, will be questions of such importance and of such importance that it will not be relevant to implement this without the involvement of the political bodies, which will also be part of the final decision-making processes within the healthcare system after the new model. I therefore believe that there will be good certainty that these are not decisions that can be made based on the judgements of the management or board of directors, for example. business profitability. I think that is the most important thing to establish now, but, as I said, this will come back to when dealing with the proposition that is being made. Since the representative, Ballo, uses the term ‘professional directors’ in this context, I would like to stress that there is a term that is not used in the consultation document that has been sent out and that I do not think will be used in the proposition presented to the Stortinget. I guess there's other people who add a little odious to these types of terms, and they like to make sure that we're working on it. So there's no suggestion in that direction from my side. This does not mean that we do not propose that there should be very competent, competent and broadly complex governance for health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e851	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e854	Getting a big message about the Norwegian health service values is important in itself. Focusing on what values we set at the highest level when we want to provide good health services for everyone in our country makes us, as politicians, think about which priorities are most important in relation to the services we want for our citizens. Only replacing the word 'health care' by 'health services' is a selection of a value base. We have too easily used words and expressions that put the patient in the wrong focus, the word "service" has a different and better value than the word "being", at least in my opinion. The aim of the down-to-earth message is, among other things, discussing and clarifying key values related to the planning, development and operation of the Norwegian healthcare service. I am glad that there is a broad deal about the overall values and guidelines. It is important that we stress that everyone in Norway is entitled to equivalent and good access to health services, and that everyone should have access to services of good quality, without regard to each cage and the economic situation. This message wants something to do with it. focus on the need for more patient-oriented development in healthcare. Of course, we want an effective health supply, but it is important that we focus on the patient, so that our desire for efficiency does not go beyond the service that we offer our patients. We know that input-driven funding has led to far more patients being treated within the Norwegian healthcare service, and that is good. But we also know that this system can lead to too much focus on which service has the best effectiveness for each hospital. Some suffering within e.g. Geriatry and psychiatry will never fit completely into an ISF system. Today, one can treat far more states than one could have done a few years ago. How far should we go, what should we offer, and what should we say no to – these are all important issues, which require a thorough debate. Are we offering women as good as men? We know that the human disease case has been highly prioritised within the research area. How should we focus on part of the female-dominated cases? This and more, we will not finish debating through the management of this big message. As politicians, we have not been able to make proper priorities. Other areas in which the Christian People's Party will focus are health provision at the beginning of life and at the end of life. Fortunately, in recent years we have been given new departments where one cares about the end of life. The debate on active death help must be met with how to provide life support towards the end of life, and I am pleased that there is a great deal to be done about it. Providing active death help is at least not the answer to these major challenges. Health services shall focus on curing and alleviating diseases, not on how life should be curtailed. I would also like to comment on the draft of the Health Minister's hearing in relation to who is going to own hospitals. I don't think the patients are concerned about who is the owner of our hospitals, but they are very concerned about the supply that hospitals and health services can offer them. As a result, this is a very important reform. It has been said from the government that this is one of the biggest health policy reforms we have had in a long time. Then it becomes strange that this should be pushed through at record speed. Ten years took it from the fixed medical system first on the agenda for implementation was a reality. The reform for which the Minister of Health is responsible is not a less reform than the fixed system was, but the hearing period is set at six weeks, and the whole reform is to be carried out in record time. We don't have to spend ten years, that's not what I mean, but I'm worried about the pace that Government Council Tune has set. I also react to the fact that in the hearing draft patients have more or less been converted into customers. It's not about services anymore, it's about buying and selling – one that discusses the market – and in many ways I feel that patients and health services are governed by economic frameworks and goals, market strategy, and that one becomes more concerned with ignition than with quality. It is tempting to mention that one in the countries that have implemented a similar hospital reform, for example. Britain and New Zealand, don't have one-sided positive experiences, maybe on the contrary. It is said that one who has received a more expensive health supply, perhaps more administration and longer queues. We should learn from the experience there. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of receiving and seeing patients who need help from Norwegian health services. There are many who have expressed their experience and the power they have in meeting with the health services, and it's not often we hear such heartaches. I don't want to engage those who work in healthcare, but I have observed that they have also taken this debate seriously. As stated in the message, such experience shows us that ‘the health service value basis is the test in the meeting between the individual patient and the health worker’. We need to continue this and focus on it even after this message has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e871	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e874	It is important that we, as elected representatives, discuss what values should characterize the Norwegian healthcare system in the future. Even more important is that this is practiced so that each individual feels that they have a self-value. For the Christian People's Party, this is especially important in the final phase of life. It is unworthy to leave dying people alone behind a screenboard in the corridor or put them into a bathroom because of lack of space. In the program series «Breaking Lifts», we were last week told how a deathly ill woman from Arendal experienced a lack of peace and care. In the Agderpost, under the heading ‘Stay away to die’, a relative tells of the care and insight of the caregivers. It shouldn't be like that! Therefore, I am pleased that the message of value focuses so strongly on the need to build up skills. It is important to strengthen the knowledge of good pain and symptom relief. Equally important is that health professionals dare to be close to the disorder. The Christian People's Party supports the establishment of academic positions at the university. Clinical research and own research programmes are important in the diagnosis and treatment of seriously ill and dying people. More awareness and knowledge increase the quality of healthcare and make health professionals more confident about how to meet the need for safety and dignity at the end of life. I am pleased that all parties in the debate today are so strongly promising to improve the offer of the most vulnerable and weak patient groups we have. During this ageing period, a Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals for active death support. It came shortly after Dr. Christian Sandsdalen gave a ‘last injection’ to a 45-year-old woman. In the Netherlands, liberalisation continues. I'm glad that former Health Minister Højbräten put down a life support committee as a counter-attack to the forces that will open up to provide active death help. The Hospice model should be further developed. The Christian People's Party believes that the help society should provide, first and foremost, must be a life aid with qualitatively good pain relief, care and fellowship in the final phase of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e891	I would like to comment on the comments of the representative Are Næss. He claimed that the notified hospital reform would deprive patients of influence over the hospitals. That, I think, was a rather dry claim. It is not my impression that patients today seem to have a significant influence on hospital policy. On the contrary, the impression you're left with is that patients often feel quite as helpless. What matters most and is important to patients is that the offers are there for everyone when they need it. And then, as we know, it's about money, organisation, and the knowledge that the hospital has. I cannot say that today's system is a good model, either organisationally or financially. First of all, we have shared political responsibility, and we have seen many times here in Stortinget that the Council of State and the Department have their own view of funding, and the state politicians have a completely different view. And who is responsible for treating patients today? We also have a shared funding model today, with 50 pst. State funding through the ISF facility, which is an estimate and which has still increased, and then the counties will have to pay 50 pst. Many state politicians complain that they have gradually taken a greater share of their total income at the expense of other important tasks to be carried out by the county. And it's pretty close to political history, when the center had government, and we had delegations on delegations, especially from the regional hospitals, who came and complained about disagreements about how the pricing of services was to be done, about the economic needs of hospitals, etc. – a rather unsustainable situation for Stortinget, as expressed in the Social Committee's opinions. So that's the close story that we also have to relate to. And in the light of that story, of which we are all a part, and which we have all been through quite recently, I would encourage the centre to show a more constructive attitude when it announced the hospital reform coming to treatment in Stortinget. The centre has not had the habit of sitting on the sideline and calling on health policy. They have been involved and taken responsibility, and I hope they can do that too when we are going to deal with the largest case in a long time for Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e902	First, to the theological part of the contributions of the representative Alvheim. For nearly 2,000 years, Christendom has viewed the parable of the merciful Samaritan as a picture of Jesus ’ care for mankind and as an example of our attitude toward our neighbor. In the present time, it was a sensation that Jesus here used a foreign culture as an example. But now we're told that the equation is really an input into the debate on funding health care. It may be a theological innovation, but for me it becomes a little poor compared to what this equation has meant both historically and personally. Then both the representative Alvheim and now the last representative Eyeågen disagree with my description of the planned hospital reform, and ask questions about how the patient's influence really is today. Yes, that's a good question, I admit it, but I don't see anything so far in the proposal for state ownership of the specialist healthcare service that indicates that it will lead to increased patient involvement. The only elected body that gets a function in this model is the Storting. And I think it's completely illusory to think that the Stortinge can take care of patients' interests to the extent that today's politicians at county and regional level can, with their greater closeness to the patient and the hospitals. If they do, it could be a different matter. Today’s system is not perfect, but we have adopted new forms of association for hospitals – a menu that former Health Minister Højbräten presented, which has been well received, and which has provided greater opportunities for exemption from hospitals. The health regions have, in my opinion, shown that they can cooperate both politically and professionally, and I believe that we have a good basis here to build on. Then the representative referred the eye to disagreement about the hospital economy. Yes, we have indeed had that. But that was precisely why the Council of State of Hojbruðen in its time set up a selection which could give us a consensus on the economic situation of hospitals, and which the Social Committee has decided to continue such work, so that the Committee could have a consensus basis for assessing the hospital economy. So these conditions do not in any way require a state acquisition of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e911	State ownership or not – we'll have an opportunity to discuss that quite thoroughly in the future in the spring session, so I won't say that much about now. But I want to say that there are certain things here that are not immaterial, and that are, among other things, The representative, Mr Naess, made his statement. I guess I had an approach that focused more on what we should prioritize, and that we need to spend time and resources on time rather than just looking at structuralisation and efficiency. And as far as this is concerned with participation, it's an important element that maybe popular government, at least indirectly, will lead to a patient participation that will be worse with the model outlined, and that, as an alternative, we will have more business model and employee management. We will be involved and take responsibility, but taking responsibility does not mean that we will necessarily agree with the Workers' Party in this matter. But we should take responsibility, and I also believe that we are in fact in agreement with a large part of the Labour Party's voters and trust representatives on the grassroots. Opinions before the national meeting at least suggested it. Then I want to go back to the message and setting. There is reason to stress that, among other things. psychiatry, geriatry, rehabilitation and pain-relieving treatment must be given a higher status than it currently has, and prioritised, among others. through research and knowledge, if we believe that we need to improve the quality of our healthcare. As the rapporteur for the vote on St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000, Care 2000, I am also pleased that the health component of care for the elderly is being taken up and treated in connection with this notification. It is important that research efforts in geriatrics are strengthened in order to improve diagnostics and treatment and to get more people involved in work on the health of the elderly and the elderly, among others. far more doctors are needed within this area, which is also included in the setting. It is important to strengthen care for the dying and those who are incurably ill, while at the same time increasing knowledge and organisation regarding the provision of pain relief. I hope that the Minister of Health will note what is in the vote and that he will be able to come back with increased efforts in these areas already in the government budget for the autumn. We will also underline the need to submit a crash report in the case of alternative medicine, based on the Aarbakke Committee's attitude, and I hope that we can now get a clarification here and legitimately place alternative medicine in the Norwegian healthcare system. In addition, we believe that a well-developed health service is necessary, but not sufficient to achieve good public health in the population. Prevention is very important. In this context, public health work is very central, and I hope that we can get our hands on the wheel a little more than the Health Minister promised in the line change here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e926	I would just like to make a few comments on the recurring theme of the proposal on the state acquisition of hospitals. I would like to stress again that it will be a good opportunity to discuss in the future. Firstly, I would like to reiterate to the representative of Svarstad Haugland that ten years of treatment for the permanent reform, which is such an important reform, can hardly be seen as a pattern of timetable and pace for the implementation of health policy reforms or, for that matter, other reforms in society. I believe that taking into account all aspects, a fully sound but rapid implementation of this type of reform must be preferable for all parties rather than a temporary withdrawal, for example. over several years, with the uncertainty and uncertainty about future organisation that it will entail. Otherwise, I do not find any basis for any of the things so far presented in this case, for example. in our consultation paper, that general purchases and sales of important health services are now being made, that earnings will be given higher priority than quality, etc., and that no emphasis has been placed on or taken into account the experience gained in other countries, for example. in the United Kingdom and New Zealand, with reforms in the hospital sector. That is exactly what we have done, and that is also why we are making proposals that differ from the reforms that have been implemented. The second thing I just want to comment on is that I am somewhat surprised that in this room there is a lot of evidence of a lack of popular governance with healthcare. It is precisely here in Stortingen that the overall governance of health services and their development should lie, and it will be even more developed through the reform that we are now preparing. This also applies, for example: user management, which I must also admit in no way is annoying within today's system. In the system we set up, the Storting could demand that there is a user involvement in the hospitals and in the management of them. If this does not happen, Stortinget will be able to put a health minister in charge of it. That is not the case with the indirect governance or influence that you have today. You can't be quiet, for example. a commission responsible for it. Without me getting involved in the theological discussion, it is well more about speaking in parables to promote the interests you have than what will be the case with the direct speech that a magnification could always have in relation to the responsible state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e937	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e951	As the case-rapporteur for this case, at least at one point in the proceedings, I shall make some comments to it. This is a matter where there is a unanimous vote and where the views of the proposer are fully shared by the Committee on the benefits of home-based dialysis, or peritoneal dialysis as it is also called. There are between 100 and 150 patients receiving such treatment in Norway per year. In the United Kingdom, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU is estimated at about 1 % of the total population in the EU. 17 pst. of all dialysis patients. In some hospitals this treatment is given to approx. 50 pst. by the dialysis patients. We have had good recordings, including: from the head of the Norwegian kidney medical association, Professor Trond Jensen, who stresses that this form of treatment is the only option for a part of those with chronic renal insufficiency, and it helps patients with long travel distances to be treated at home and to avoid the very stressful and expensive transport to and from hospitals. It is also true that some of these patients with such treatment may be at home and in full employment. They can also have much greater mobility in terms of e.g.: travel and in connection with holidays and leisure. The benefits include: that the quality of life of the patient increases significantly and that patients of working age may be at work. The long and burdensome journeys are avoided, and one saves a lot on the travel expenses, which the social security service refunds. This form of dialysis also relieves the hemodialysis wards of hospitals, which are already detonated in many hospitals, and which have a real undercapacity in relation to today’s dialysis needs. We believe that the time is ripe to follow up the proposal put forward here by Mr Alvheim. Furthermore, we believe that the Department should look at the DRG system in relation to these patient groups, and then I think of both those who are receiving home-media-lysis, and those who have haemodialysis in hospitals, so that a proper financial system is established, and that both of them look at the time when these home-media-lysis patients need to be in hospital at the start of treatment, and the control tours that have to be made to the hospital during the treatment period. We hope that the Ministry of Health will take a look at these matters soon, and that these are the costs to be covered by the social security budget. It is also requested that one review and repair the DRG system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e970	The Christian People's Party will pay tribute to the proposer who has raised this important issue for all those suffering from chronic renal failure. 25 years ago, only the Rikshospitale had an offer for this patient group. It goes without saying that the travel radius of chronic renal failure patients was very limited. Later, several hospitals were able to provide dialysis. A Nordic agreement allowed patients to receive hospital treatment in the Nordic capitals. It is a major step forward for patients that home-based dialysis is now available after a hospital stay of a few weeks for testing and training. From the Norwegian kidney medical association it is reported that for dialysis patients who also have heart disease/heart failure or diabetes, treatment with posedialysis is the most gentle and medical best. The Christian People's Party wants everyone who wants to be in their homes for as long as possible. This treatment offers great opportunities for this. Persons without additional diagnosis could be in work without having to be free to go to hospital for treatment. It is a great advantage to let go of long trips to the nearest hospital that provides haemodialysis. It is both tiring and time consuming. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that the Government authorise the Rikstrygdeverket as soon as possible to cover the costs of dialysis fluid and consumables by home-based bag dialysis over the social security budget. We also support the proposal to correct the DRG dialysis system at the time the patient has to be in the hospital for training or control. The Christian People's Party believes that today's decision can lead to a release of capacity by the haemodialysis departments, but most of all we support Document No. The 8 proposal because it will increase the quality of life of patients with chronic renal failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e990	The present setting is a happy message to a small group of patients with severe kidney disease. This is also, to the most extent, a matter that goes on human dignity and values loose. Since 1999, severe chronic renal patients requiring dialysis have been able to do this at home, so-called peritoneal dialysis, also known as home dialysis. Although this possibility has been present since 1999, very few patients have taken advantage of it because the hospital or county councils as hospital owners have been charged with home-media lysis without being reimbursed any amount of these costs. Most dialysis patients have been sent to the outpatient clinics of the hospitals for dialysis and day care, and the hospitals have then been paid through the DRG. Most patients with severe renal impairment need dialysis twice a week and more, and many have very long journeys to and from hospitals to get this treatment. This is tiring, and it makes a normal professional and family life difficult for most people. This has led to a reduction in the quality of life and especially for those living far away from hospitals, this treatment has worked both mentally and physically, with long trips in taxis. The cost of dialysis is estimated to be approximately 250000 kroner on average, and the costs are the same whether you carry out dialysis in your own home or in a hospital. The costs for the county councils or hospital will therefore be NOK 250 000 also for home medialysis, which the hospital will not be refunded, while the hospital will receive a DRG for its own patients. Overall, this is about approx. 300-350 patients on the land, which will cost between 25 and 50 million in total. kr per year. The pressure on the medical departments that often make this dialysis on their own dialysis sections in the major hospitals is quite high. This pressure could decrease significantly if a scheme was set up in which the Swedish National Agency went in and paid the dialysis costs in full, as stated in the proposal. This is precisely what you have asked for in the present setting, to which a unanimous committee has joined. I am very pleased that the Committee has understood the problem of dialysis patients and has seen the proposal that the Rikstrøgdewerk now enters and covers the cost of home media lysis, as a practical and good socio-economic system. In relation to patients, home-medialisation, as already mentioned, will provide a significantly better quality of life for individuals, and many can maintain their working life using home-medial lysis, which was difficult for most people when they had to go to hospital. I also find reason to thank Telemark Central Hospital for having, together with the Norwegian Urological Association, made me aware of this problem, which has now found its happy solution. Unfortunately, even central health policymakers cannot at any time have a full overview of different heavy and inappropriate health care systems, and we are therefore totally dependent on being involved in both health care bottlenecks and things that can be done better for patients with simple grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1009	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1026	For examination there is Document No. 8:28 from the representatives of Næss, Alvheim, Tingelstad and Dørum concerning a new regulation implementing the law on abortion. The proposers refer to the draft consultation of 5 May 2000. Proposalers believe that the proposal has met with some strong reactions and that there is a breach of the law as regards parental information rights and the right to reserve health professionals. An overall committee suggests that parents are usually given the opportunity to comment if the pregnant person is under 16 years of age or mentally retarded. Exceptions may occur if specific reasons contradict. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the SV, point to the fact that the abortion law is a special law and thus prevails over the more general rule of the Patient Rights Act. In individual cases, there may be very good reason why parents should not be informed. It would be natural to assess the maturity of the abortion seeker. There may be deep conflicts between her and her parents, or even serious contradictions based on religion and in attitudes toward prevention. It may also be a question of abuse. The Minister for Health stated in his letter dated 20 February that he intended to add “serious” conflicts to the note in order to clarify what is meant by exception. This is satisfied with the majority. With regard to the right of reservation of health professionals, everyone, without the Workers' Party, will inculcate it. The majority will probably explain this point of view themselves, so I now want to explain the views of the Labour Party. The Workers' Party believes that the right of reservation applies to those who carry out or assist with the abortion itself. Health professionals who provide care to the woman before and after the procedure do not have access to a reservation according to the law of the day. There St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96 on the experience of the law on abortion was dealt with, very few use was made of the right to reserve, and the majority concluded that there was therefore no need to amend the law at this point. However, some municipal doctors had claimed the right to reserve both in the case of prescription of contraception and in the case of a request for termination of pregnancy. The majority then said clearly that it was only a healthcare professional who had such a right under law, who could make a reservation, and asked the Health Authority to follow up with the necessary checks. There are mostly midwives or nurses who distribute the drug. But it is the woman herself who initiates the abortion when she eats the pill. It can't be a direct act to bring forward a doset with a drug in – a drug that the woman herself chooses to consume, which she has the right to do according to the law! In the consultation round, the nurses’ association has also joined this clarification of the right to reserve. But the majority of this room doesn't accept this. Is it so that for some actually there is a desire to make the woman the worst possible? Is it the most difficult to carry out an abortion to which a woman is legally entitled? I want to warn you of developments that are hampering the professional conduct of abortion. In the past, there were many tragic, amateur abortions with a risk to the woman's life and health. We don't want that time back! We call about the abortion law and will take care of the woman's health in a proper way when she is in the desperate situation that she wants abortion. We believe that the right of reservation is respected in line with the law of the new regulations. The doctor who prints the abortion pill can make a reservation. The doctor is medically responsible, and only this is active action. The distribution of the medicinal product must be treated in the same way as care before intervention. Women in the districts must have the same rights as women in the cities to have abortions carried out. It is those who live in rural areas who will be significantly affected by this extended right of reservation, because there is the greatest lack of health professionals. Finally, I would like to address the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1058	Reidun Gravdahl has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1061	The background to the proposal we are examining is the new rules implementing the Abortion Act, which was sent for consultation in May 2000. There were two aspects to which it was reacted. One was that it could seem that the regulations restricted the right of parents to information in the event of abortions in pregnant women under the age of 16. The second was that the right of healthcare professionals to reserve themselves against carrying out or assisting in the event of an abortion should not apply when the abortion is carried out by means of drugs and the woman itself is taking the drugs. In the case of parental information rights, the Minister of Health, by letter to the Committee, has clarified that an amendment of the applicable guidelines on parental information rights is not intended. Note Section 5 of the draft regulation states that if there is a ‘will to create conflicts between women and parents’, her wish not to be heard by the parents should be respected. This wording was part of the reason why this document No. The 8-proposal was promoted. In his letter, the Minister for Health said that he intended that it should be called'serious conflicts' in the final note of the regulation, and I see this as a clear improvement. Abortion by minors is serious and may reflect social and/or mental problems that should be solved in a family context, which then requires parents to be informed and involved. The use of drug-induced abortion, the so-called abortion pill, has made it necessary to introduce new rules on health care professionals’ right of reservation. The original draft regulations did not make it clear enough that the reservation rights of doctors should also apply to prescription of the abortion pill. The Minister of Health said in a letter to the Committee that the right of reservation should also apply to doctors prescribing the medication and that this will be clarified in the final regulation. However, the Minister of Health believes that health professionals supplying the drug to the woman cannot make a reservation. For those who, for reasons of conscience, are unable to participate in an abortion operation, it must be assumed that the delivery of the agent causing the abortion will be perceived as assisting in the procedure, equivalent assistance in the case of a surgical abortion. In this context, the majority of the Committee considers that health professionals must be able to reserve themselves against this and propose it. As co-rapporteur, I am pleased that the majority of the committee will respond to health professionals who, for reasons of conviction, have to say no to perform or assist in the event of an abortion. I am pleased that today's abortion laws will also respect the conviction of those who find that they cannot carry out or assist with these interventions, and that this must also apply in the case of drug-induced abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1080	The proposers behind this document No. As Mr Neess has also said, the 8 proposal has produced two proposals, the last of which has received only the support of the Right. But the first proposal, which was that the regulation should respect the right of parents to health care, as it is stated in the Patient Rights Act, in connection with the abortion of young women, has not, of course, promoted itself, in line with the wise signal of the Council of State that he will include the word ‘serious’ in the new regulation. Then we also perceive that this is really a rewording of today's practice, and that there is no desire to change what has been practiced so far. It is clear that the general rule will continue to be that parents should be informed when minor women ask for abortion, because it is a serious intervention that can also be traced afterwards. However, because abortion issues are not like any other health care issue, it is also important to respect the fact that there may be so serious conflicts between the young woman and the parents that in very special cases there is reason not to inform the parents when the young woman asks for it. It's this thing that's been the right starting point, that we're holding on to. The second question is to respect health professionals’ right of reservation in assisting with an abortion. There we have joined the proposers, and believe that in this case there should also be a right for nurses and midwives to reserve themselves against assisting in the procedure after the abortion pill. Now it might be said that it's stretching the term "assisting by abortion" a piece by also including the distribution of the abortion pill. But under one condition, I do not think it is important to press anyone who feels that this is happening on the conscience and who is resisting this, and it has also been based on the majority of the committee, namely that other personnel are then put at their disposal, so that the individual woman's right to have an abortion operation carried out even with the use of the abortion pill is not hindered by the fact that any health care professional refuses and reserves the right to participate. With this clear premise, which is also reflected in the vote, the Right supports the proposal to respect the right of reservation of all groups of health professionals even in the case of medical abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1089	The proposals of the proposers have been twofold. One part concerned a general rule on ensuring information to parents of children and young people under 16 who become pregnant and self-immitted abortions. The second part was based on the reservation rights of health professionals, which are linked to the fact that medical abortion is equivalent to the right of reservation currently applicable to surgical abortion. As others have pointed out, the first part is now in place, in the sense that the Council of State has stressed that the text of the regulation is to be amended so that it can be assumed that there will be «serious» conflicts, the parents should not be informed. It is therefore quite clear that it will be the general rule that parents will be informed about children and young people aged 12 to 16 when abortion is involved. I will therefore not get any closer to that part, but just stress that also for SV it has been such that it has been important to equate surgical and medical abortion. Even if a new method is used, the ethical aspects of the right of health professionals to reserve themselves will not change in principle in the light of SV. Just as a doctor should have the right to make reservations if for personal reasons it is found appropriate, it must also be a right for other health professionals. When a doctor will be able to reserve himself against prescribing a pill for medical abortion, in my opinion and SV's view, the staff who will give the pill must also have the same right, because the consequence will be the same. This means actively participating in an act of self-determined abortion. So I notice that the case rapporteur goes quite far in suggesting that this should affect the woman's right to self-determined abortion. I can almost not stress strongly enough that SV is a defender of the law that exists today, and we have no plans or desire to change the law, but will strongly defend the law as it was adopted in its time. We also suggested that a text be included that stressed that although there are health professionals who make reservations at the individual hospital, it is nevertheless necessary to ensure that the person who has asked for self-determined abortion is able to carry out the action. Reservations must not affect the state of preparedness of the hospital at any time. It has also become a majority comment. I therefore think that what the rapporteur here is withdrawing, is on the side of the matter, and that from the documents there is an unnecessary reference from the case rapporteur. It is quite clear that the law on self-immitted abortion is to be continued as it stands today and that those who want to commit abortion are to be guaranteed the right that the law has given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1100	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1114	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1125	The President explained the content of the matter, so I'm not going to repeat it, but it's a proposal from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to use this 975 million appropriation. For the treatment of patients both abroad and within the borders of Norway. In this case, the majority consider that a reassessment of whether the appropriations adopted are appropriate to the needs and assumptions, both for domestic and foreign proceedings, shall be carried out at the first ordinary budgetary procedure, i.e. at the earliest in the context of the revised national budget now in spring. A minority, as the centre party is involved in, believe that we should see something more flexible about the disposal of these funds once we have received as many signals as we have, that there is free capacity – both ordinary and extraordinary – in our hospitals. There are, among other things: received a letter from the Central Hospital in Hedmark and from the Red Cross Clinic in Oslo v/director there. We also know that Rogaland County Council has had a long-term dialogue with the Minister of Health; at least many letters from Rogaland have been sent to the Minister of Health if possible using this so-called foreign billion for patient treatment in Rogaland, where they have the capacity to do so if they get the economy. We in the Center Party believe that it is right to be flexible about the use of this money, for the patient's benefit. We also believe that the patient should be given greater weight. We believe that there are several people who would say yes to a quick treatment if this can be done in their home country, and as close to home as possible. There are several reasons why people refuse to travel abroad for medical treatment. From a professional point of view, there is a warning against excessive use of foreign treatment due to an increased risk of hospital infections, which will subsequently be a burden on the Norwegian health system. Foreign treatment will also cost a lot in the form of travel expenses and any accompanying costs. These are expenditures that do not at all benefit health care, and we believe that it would be much more appropriate to include them in a national action plan, with treatment here. Costs will also be borne by any post-treatment which must take place in Norway, and we know that from a medical professional point of view, it is stressed that those who are primary operators in such health care should also be those who carry out post-treatment in the event of complications and high follow-up needs. This cannot be done by foreign treatment. When the patient is back in Norway, it is the Norwegian health service that needs to take care of this. Before this matter came to Stortinget, the undersigned had some correspondence with the Minister of Health about a more flexible use of this so-called foreign billion. In a letter to the Social Committee, the Minister of Health said that he noticed the signals received from several Norwegian hospitals about the availability of capacity in connection with the allocation of the Stortinget before Christmas 2000. In my opinion, this information is interesting and should provide a basis for further reactions: this is evidence, among other things, that there is currently too little communication, coordination and transparency in the Norwegian health system in controlling good capacity utilisation. In today's debate on the state acquisition of hospitals, it is said that this should be corrected when the state takes over. I must say that the treatment of this matter does not indicate that there will be any particular improvement. We see here that a new assessment of the flexible use of funds already allocated to the patient’s best interests should be postponed to regular budgetary procedures. I believe that today's organisation of the healthcare system could have given us the overview and the insight we have received here, which we have requested on several occasions, and that this should have resulted in the government starting with the 975 million. I had also returned with a proposal for domestic treatment. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Centre Party and SV promote that, in this context, it is possible to use a Norwegian treatment institution, which would be just as reasonable and faster than treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1148	The representative of Violent Violence has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1151	I'm not going to go into the details of the Storting's previous treatment of proposals of NOK 1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. The proposal, which was promoted by the Progress Party, went to the disposal of DKK 1 billion in the budget for 2000, a proposal which was dealt with in the Stortinget on 14 November 2000. The Labour Party pointed out that it was unrealistic to grant so much money a month and a half before the end of the financial year, and we thought, above all, that it would be both natural and necessary that a significant increase in the volume of purchases of operations abroad was linked to the ordinary treatment of the State budget by Storting for 2001, which was then just around the corner. I also remind you that the assessments made by the Ministry of how many patients it could be relevant to provide treatment abroad did not make it probable that there was a need for one billion kroner for foreign treatment. The Labour Party and I have not changed our vision. The allocation of the budget, whether for patient treatment or other purposes, must be linked to thorough analysis of the needs, capacity and ability to put the appropriations into practical service. That is why I and the Labour Party believe that the issue of appropriations must of course be linked to the ordinary budgetary procedures in Stortinget, preferably to the annual budgets, possibly to the revised national budget. Making appropriations spread over the year will result in coincidences that we cannot live with in Stortinget. The size must keep its work in order to ensure that appropriations for different sectors are seen in a coherent way and are predictable both for administration and for users. I remind you that in a short time we are invited to decide on a new billion, a so-called domestic billion, on a proposal from the Progress Party. That's not how the Storting can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1162	The reason why the Storting granted DKK 1 billion for patient treatment abroad was, on the one hand, long waiting lists due to an assumed lack of capacity in Norway, and, on the other hand, that this would not be inflationary and weaken the budget. Later, we have received information about the available treatment capacity in Norway, and now, therefore, proposals to use the money domestically. The Christian People's Party pointed out in the debate on foreign billions on 14 November 2000 the disadvantages of foreign treatment. The vast majority of patients want treatment in the community. Sending patients abroad also means exporting treatment experience and competence that we want to have in Norway. In addition, foreign treatment poses an increased risk for the importation of multi-resistant bacteria. The recent recommendation of the State Health Authority to increase the number of isolate beds, including: with this justification, underlines this. Thus, there are no health policy benefits to treatment abroad. With regard to the budgetary effects, the Christian People's Party has asked the Minister of Finance for an opinion, which has been included in the vote. In his reply, the Minister of Finance points out that there is a general shortage of labour in many parts of the Norwegian economy, including the United Kingdom. in particular in the health sector, and that increased appropriations nationally in general, and in the health sector in particular, will therefore increase pressure in the Norwegian economy. Against this background, the Christian People's Party cannot support the proposal in Document No. 8:36.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1171	The right was behind the decision of 14 November last year to grant DKK 1 billion for treatment abroad by patients who have waited a long time for treatment here at home. The main reason was then, and we are still behind it, that by granting this money for foreign treatment, we would not ensure – I would say – that the rate of inflation would increase here at home, so that the money we spend domestically becomes less valuable and thus reaches fewer patients. There have been no major changes in that assessment since then. That is why we hold fast to what we did. Otherwise, of course, the Right’s view is that the general rule is that we should have a healthcare system that is able to provide the treatment Norwegian patients need, with the few exceptions it may eventually become with so specialised and high-tech treatment that it may be reasonable to treat them elsewhere. But the main rule is, of course, that we want a healthcare system that can provide Norwegian patients with the treatment they should be entitled to. As this is not always as good and easy to fulfil, the Right – I remember it – wanted to have a clearer and more operational paragraph in relation to the treatment of patients’ rights, which requires entitlement to treatment after an individual medically justified period. If it is not possible to comply with this in this country, the patient should be entitled to receive treatment abroad at the public expense. I have also noticed that after the Stortinget decided on this so-called foreign billion, a number of hospitals have thought that they have free capacity, only they get the money. At any rate, it may indicate that alternatives and competition may be conducive to the idea and may lead to more people being able to deal with themselves within the budgets adopted. On the other hand, when it comes to today's proposal, we also choose to refer it to the consideration of the revised national budget. That's when we decide whether the appropriations we've given are sufficient, or whether we should add to them. This is also true of the domestic billion that we are going to deal with immediately. In both cases, the right view is that one should look at the revision, the half-yearly revision of the budget, and otherwise stick to what was adopted a little less than half a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1184	Document No. presented In my view, the 8th proposal by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo of the Socialist Left Party on which the present position is based is a remarkable and peculiar populist proposal. The Socialist Left Party, together with the Centre parties Right and Advance Party, agreed to grant SEK 1 billion for foreign treatment for Norwegian patients as late as November. The reason why this proposal was promoted and adopted was, as several have already said, taking into account Norwegian patients who had been waiting for a very long time in a condition of health. In addition, it was not possible to obtain funds for public hospital treatment in Norway at that time, nor had it been previously. It is my claim that in November all political parties already knew that Norwegian public hospitals could treat more patients if additional funds were made available. In fact, the representatives of the social committee already knew this in the spring of 2000, when we discussed the so-called hospital economic proposition – St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000. It also knew the representative of the Socialist Left Party at that time. The fact that several public hospitals in Norway reacted to the billions abroad is easily understandable. They could have done more treatments if they had received more money then, and they can also carry out much more treatments today if the resources are sufficient, which the majority of the population has so far not been willing to give them. Thanks to relatively rapid treatment in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the patient bridge to the rest of the world is now up and going, and most patients are happy with the treatment they have received abroad. But they are unfortunately less satisfied with the reception and follow-up they get in public Norwegian hospitals when they come home and are going to have post-treatment, for example to remove sutures. I'm referring here to my question-time question in Stortinget on the 14th. i.e., where it appears that after a patient had completed patient treatment in Germany, severe problems were encountered in removing his or her sutures in a public Norwegian hospital. The proposer, the minority in the vote and the majority who still know that Norwegian public hospitals can treat several patients if funds are made available, may adopt the new Document No of the Progress Party. Eight proposals to grant a home billion – if they will – and whether that is the concern of patients who have been given priority and not the concern for formalities, of which the representative Asmund Kristoffersen was so concerned. I am pleased that a solid majority in the Social Committee rejects Document No. 8:36, and for the maintenance of the billion granted for the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad. Not only do patients receive treatment, but we also gain quite good experience in terms of the future, because I have understood it so in the current Minister for Health that treatment abroad can also speak in other contexts in the future. This is a good experience to take with it in view of the selection of patients in the future, which you want both for the patient’s waiting time, the patient’s situation and not least for the economic aspect of the case in terms of treatment abroad and domestic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1201	A ‘special’ and ‘popular’ proposal called the head of the social committee the proposal we are discussing today. It's worth listening to, because no one can with the same weight document knowledge of peculiar and populist suggestions as the leader of the Storting Social Committee. An article in the Title of 16 January 2001 shall state the following: ‘In the Progress Party, there is also an internal consensus. Social politician John Alvheim and fiscal politician Siv Jensen both think it's okay that the foreign billion is used in Norway. The Party of Advances and SV are the two parties that have distanced themselves from the idea that using an extra billion or two in the healthcare system is inflationary and dangerous for the Norwegian economy.’ In the same evening, in ‘Redaktion 21’, the same Alvheim called for the funds to be used in Norway, then on premises. So what Alvheim used to characterize as reasonable under certain conditions, today he hassles from the pulpit, because it's no longer unprofitable to go in for it. I think you should think a little bit before choosing the characteristics that are ‘special’ or ‘popular’ used in other games. I also register that Asmund Kristoffersen pronounced to the Evening Post on 16 January this year: «The money is granted, so if we can stop sending patients, we have nothing against the use of the money in Norwegian hospitals». Gunhild The eye spoke to Dagbladet on 15 January: ‘That’s good for the other games at last. But they knew Norwegian hospitals could relieve the hospital queue if they got money." So today, Asmund Kristoffersen says: “The working party and I have not changed our vision.” But in January, both Asmund Kristoffersen and Gunhild Øyågen went out – to the Evening Post and Dagbladet respectively – and decided that the funds should be used for Norwegian hospitals. With my best wishes, I find it difficult to see that this proposal is a ‘popular’ proposal, which some have chosen to characterise it. Thus, one billion kroner have been allocated by Stortinget for use abroad, and then it is made visible by a letter from various Norwegian hospitals that the use of targeted could be a good part of the funds used for treatment in Norway instead. We have received letters from Martina Hansen's Hospital, Red Cross Clinic and Rogaland Central Hospital, and the county council in Rogaland has made contact. The same is true of the Central Hospital in Hedmark. Even from the hospital in Mo in Rana, we have heard that 3 million. kr used focused on orthopaedic intervention could have caused part of the queue to be wound up there. Then you can slowly ask: Shouldn't the Storting know this in advance? I want to say that they write and the recordings that have come from Norwegian hospitals give Stortinget a unique opportunity to target the effort. Here you could use the tendering principle. Here you could make demands in relation to what is left for the resources. Here one could have compared prices to prices in the foreign bridge that has already been created, to see if it is possible to operate Norwegian hospitals more reasonably. The situation with regard to the operation of Norwegian hospitals is, of course, in many ways opposite to what it is normal, because there is a constant demand for more funds, without necessarily having more efficiency on the purchase. Thus, in the Stortinget, in a unique situation, where claims for various Norwegian hospitals could have really been made, a list was presented of what kind of conditions could have been treated, and used these means – not as an extra allocation, but simply these means that had already been granted – to liquidate cows in Norwegian hospitals. Some of the examples you now get from abroad are pretty grotesque. There are some who have to accompany Germany and be there for 3-4 days in order to be operated on for a human injury. When you start counting on it in relation to the fact that it could have been done outpatient at the home of the individual, you get costs that might come up in the twenty-two. And then you don't have to take that kind of consequences into account, assess whether there are alternatives and then use the funds in a targeted way – not instead of someone going abroad for treatment, but so that some of those who have to go there today can get the same treatment in Norway. The word rudeness is certainly unparliamentary, sir. President?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1232	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1235	Yes, it's unparliamentary, yes, because if not, I would have used it to characterize the head of the Social Committee's expression 'populistic' and'special' as just that, but I'll have to choose to refrain from it. This would have been a targeted and sensible way to use these funds. Unfortunately, the majority of people are not grateful, but I have to thank the case rapporteur for the thorough and good work he has done, and for the fact that the Centre Party is with us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1243	The hospital sector has more than one financial problem. The sector has been increasingly resourced over the last few years. In somatic terms, the budget increase has been almost 5pst since 1995. annual. This has provided a basis for growth in the number of patients treated. But there are still many on the waiting list, and some of these have been waiting unacceptable for a long time. Despite the increasing training of health professionals, lack of staff is among the reasons why capacity is not used. New hospital equipment is increasingly being invested. At the same time, we know that a lot of equipment is unused for large parts of the day. We also see that hospitals or hospital owners send patients on waiting lists where there is no capacity or shorter waiting time. Increased resources cannot solve such problems, which are of an organisational and management nature. The introduction of patients’ right to free hospital choice from 1 January has enabled patients to choose treatment, e.g. in hospitals with the shortest waiting time. This would in itself stimulate Norwegian professional environments to both make available available capacity and exploit it. In addition to the patients’ right to free hospital choice, county councils are also free to conclude agreements for the treatment of patients from other county municipalities. In this way, the counties of today’s system can take responsibility for patients and make use of the available capacity. Experience has so far shown that counties and hospitals help patients to receive treatment elsewhere. There are also considerable differences between county authorities in how patient treatment is organised and in the measures taken to eliminate bottlenecks and unacceptable waiting times. Different approaches to exploiting new opportunities are also so far among the Rikstrogen Foundation’s experience of treatment abroad. This was confirmed by the social security director at a meeting yesterday at the latest, where he could refer to everything from enthusiasm and willingness to cooperate to scepticism and attitudes such as ‘this is not appropriate for us’. Negative attitudes can, however, be reversed. But then it is also important that we maintain and implement the treatment scheme abroad on the basis of the assumptions laid down in the establishment. The scheme should complement treatment in Norway. It should be an alternative but not a substitute or a substitute for treatment in Norway. Of course, the general rule should be that we should be able to provide all patients with a satisfactory offer in Norway. But there can always be bottlenecks and cows in a complicated health system, and then there is no reason not to take advantage of good offers abroad when doing so for the benefit of patients. It may also be about treatment options in areas where our population base is too small to make it reasonable to build up an independent offer in Norway and where cooperation with good environments abroad can be more topical. I believe that there is reason to note the opinions of several Norwegian hospitals and trade unions on the availability of capacity in connection with the Stortingen grant for the purchase of treatment abroad. The current funding system shall provide hospitals with the basis for making use of such available capacity. Half of the operational funding is activity determined through outpatient reimbursements and input-driven financing. Increases in activity to exploit free capacity trigger revenues that cover half of the average cost of treatment. Moreover, the counties in the budget of the year have been allocated free revenues to cover financing beyond 50 p.m. State reimbursement. The Ministry has asked the Rikstrygdeverket to strive to obtain the most favourable prices in the choice of treatment site. This includes, inter alia: that travel costs must be proportionate to the treatment costs, both at the foreign hospital and in Norway. Contracts have been concluded with hospitals in Denmark, Sweden and Germany. Treatment sites are suitable for Norwegian patients for both language, travel distance and travel expenses. Increased resources alone do not solve organisational and management problems. Treatment abroad involves not only increased capacity, but also new opportunities for patients who for various reasons do not have the power to provide an offer. If this can at the same time stimulate Norwegian hospitals to try new forms of organisation to increase activity, we have achieved a lot. I believe it is likely that hospitals should also be given increased resources in the future. However, the allocation of treatment abroad is not particularly relevant for the assessment of how much it is to be administered or when such increases should be granted. At this stage, I am not prepared to propose exceptional appropriations, i.e. increase the allocation to Norwegian hospitals in addition to that granted by the Stortinget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1272	I agree with the Minister of Health that hospitals have more than one financial problem. The system within our healthcare system has, among other things, organisational and governance problems. In my opinion, we could have helped a little bit today if we had decided to use already allocated funds flexibly. Equipment stands unused large parts of the day. Yes, but if we put in extra effort at hospitals in Norway, more parts of the day can be used. We also had to be able to refer patients to available capacity when the hospitals do not refer them. In my opinion, this would have been economical and efficient in terms of the resource we have already deployed. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if there are new cost estimates in relation to those made in November 2000, as regards the cost to the Norwegian State of increasing the use of Norwegian health professionals to accompanying staff in foreign treatment, as regards the need for post-treatment and the nature of the price tag on it, and as regards increased costs in relation to increased risk of infection. These factors also contribute to the burden on the Norwegian hospital and Norwegian economy, and will at least have to be subtracted as a result of the preparation of these accounts, whether or not to introduce a small billion kroner into the Norwegian health system is inflationary or not. I think it's a little absurd to talk about a small billion kroner being inflationary in the Norwegian economy when we know how many billions we spend. Rather, we will try to reduce the volume of other consumption in this country in relation to treating sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1283	Specific cost estimates have not been carried out on the factors asked by the representative. But the experience with this scheme so far shows that it is not the kind of cost that this is talking about, which in some way makes this scheme worthy of the expression ‘absurd’ and the other expressions used here. On the contrary, we believe that the experience so far is positive. It also shows feedback from patients who have received treatment abroad. There is also something that I think should be included in the user experience that is otherwise requested in the context of hospital treatment, that Norwegian patients who are receiving treatment abroad come back and can tell them that they have actually received a treatment that was significantly better than the one they might initially have expected. I believe that the arrangements we have made for the use of these funds in a relatively short time are entirely sound in relation to what we get back. Then one can slowly discuss whether, as was said here, one billion kroner from or to the next will be inflationary in the Norwegian system. I think it's a completely different discussion, which you might have to take completely regardless of whether or not it's been granted NOK 1 billion for treatment abroad. As I said, I repeat that the issue of the use of that billion is irrelevant to the question of whether more money should be allocated to hospital treatment in Norway. These are matters which may need to be addressed in the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1292	I could imagine initially asking the Minister for Health to follow up these reports that come from patients who have received treatment abroad. I have spoken to someone who has been there, and it is quite interesting to hear about what you experience in a public hospital abroad, and in so far also in a private hospital, in terms of the patient's satisfaction, the service they receive, etc. Even today, the risk of infection at a patient’s bridge abroad has been mentioned. Of course, there is a real danger that none of us can ignore, and that it is relevant to discuss in this context. My question to the Minister of Health is: Has the Ministry of Health, or the Minister of Health, so far under the care of the patient bridge recorded any particular problem in the fact that patients who come home from surgical treatment abroad have contracted hospital infections that have led to problems for the individual patient? I know that the Health Authority has sent out a circular to the public hospital that you should have a special treatment for those who come for follow-up. We have discussed that before, and I expect the Minister of Health to have taken action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1299	I must first stress that the risk of infection, for the transmission of multi-resistant bacteria in the context of treatment in foreign hospitals, is real and is constantly being taken seriously. So far there has been a scheme for this which we have initially thought should be fully sound, and which has not caused problems of any kind that have not been able to handle. I have said in the past that the problem of infection in connection with stays at foreign hospitals or other health services is a general issue. Infections occur in connection with large travel activities. Diseases occur abroad and require treatment abroad, and people come back. I believe that the arrangements made for the use of this billion abroad are more sound, because there is a planned and systematized system of selection in advance of hospitals, treatment sites, which are among the best-quality. It is therefore essential not to add treatment, for example. hospitals with a presence of multi-resistance microbes for which measures should be taken. Compared to what happens in relation to e.g. normal tourist traffic, I believe that the risk in this case is lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1306	No more people have asked for the word in reply, nor have others asked for the word in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1320	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of changing the lines after the individual posts, and that those drawing on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1329	This case concerns the renewal of the concession for continued regulation of watercourses with older regulation in the Numedallaggen. This type of innovation allows new requirements for the natural environment to be taken into account and changes in society to the focus of 80 years ago. At the same time, it is important to ensure the production of electricity. The nowmedal barge is a central watercourse in Norway with many different functions and qualities. The watercourse extends from Hordaland to Vestfold, but has mainly spread in Buskerud. In this case, three main interests have emerged. Firstly, it is the interests of the communes of magasin, who want to increase the value of the natural experiences and ensure the fish stocks in this part of the watercourse, secondly the interests of the municipalities at the bottom of the watercourse, which are occupied by the salmon trunk and thus the requirements for minimum water management, and thirdly, not least the interests of the Brugeseier Association, who want to ensure the production of power. The challenge in this case is thus to balance these interests in a good way. I feel that, through this unanimous setting, we have succeeded in this. The nowmedal barge is proposed as national salmon watercourses in NOU 9: 1999. Therefore, the Committee has been in favour of the conditions for the salmon strain in the watercourse. The proposal shows that there have been differing views between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy on what will be sufficient to secure the salmon strain. This and the consultations carried out during the examination have led the Committee, acting unanimously, to the last recommendation of the Ministry of the Environment on minimum water management at Skollenborg for the period from 25 May to 30 June. However, it is a clear premise that the regularity is conducting studies on the living conditions of salmon in the watercourse. If it appears that this operating regulation results in a negative result for the salmon, it is possible to re-examine the whole of the regulation, and it is also possible to intervene in accordance with paragraph 2. 2 of the Regulation. The main reason why we have been somewhat reluctant to increase the minimum flow of water beyond this is, of course, the need to take care of the natural and environmental interests of the upper part of the watercourse. Very many children and adults are now part of the series «We at Langedrag». There is a small impression of the qualities associated with this part of the watercourse in the municipality of Nore and Uvdal. Through this case, these will be ensured more strongly. The Aksjongruppe for the future of Pålsbufjorden is to celebrate this Passover with cream cream that they have now received a pass to build a threshold at Rødtännan. In addition, a unanimous committee is in favour of an overall threshold plan for the area. In this way, the need for more thresholds is assessed and local community involvement ensured. Through this type of case, it is also important to ensure that new requirements do not reduce power generation to the point of putting pressure on the development of new undistorted watercourses. Through the treatment, it was found that the requirements for flood suppression and flooding were too high. In response from the Ministry of Oil and Energy of 12 March, an adjustment involving an increase in production of approx. 27 C.E. I would remind you that this actually involves approx. half of the increased production which the disputed proposed extension of the power plant in the Hatteberg district of Baroniet Rosendal will entail. It shows that, in similar cases, it is important to include this perspective in the assessment of the conditions imposed. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1348	The rapporteur has set out the substance of the matter and the work of the Committee. I just want to link some comments to the areas where people living along the watercourse are most concerned. As more of these older hydroelectric regulation issues are being addressed in the future in Stortinget, it is important how we deal with both production, safety and environmental issues in this matter. Upgrading and renewing old hydropower plants are intended to increase production, so that we can make the most of one of our most environmentally friendly energy sources. In addition, during the review of the overall hydropower development plan, the Government will focus on reviewing the environmental conditions of existing expansions. Thus, production and the environment need to be more coherent in order to find the best solutions for society. In the option of St.prp. No 37 for 2000-2001 we have had a ‘win-win’ situation in which we take care of the environment and at the same time eliminate parts of a production loss without having to accept the disadvantages. The now-medal barrier affects large geographical areas, and environmental interests are quite different from the upper part of the watercourse to the lower part. Today's regulation causes dunes and moonscapes at the top of the watercourse in low-water years. This is now to be done by building a threshold in Pålsbufjorden that will create a better water level and hopefully better inland fishing. If necessary, two additional thresholds shall be built. So the proposition has great aesthetic improvements. The main environmental challenges in this case lie in the assessments of the minimum water flow in relation to the salmon stock in the Numedalbatgen. If you believe in the media deposits, the population of wild birds in Norway is on the way. That's good, but we still have to set things right so that we know with certainty that the wild-tailed tribe in our watercourses has the best conditions for survival. This is one of the reasons why the government of Stoltenberg will impose stricter environmental conditions on existing and future hydroelectric power plants. In Numedallaggen, the population is strong and disease-free and is therefore a resource both as a cultural tradition and – most importantly – as an industrial activity. Nowmedal is one of the watercourses considered to be national salmon watercourses on a proposal from the Rieber-Mohn Committee. For the Workers' Party fraction, it was important to take this into account and find the right solutions to maintain and increase the production of salmon in the Numedalbatgen. The Workers' Party's fraction is therefore pleased that an overall committee is drawing on the revised proposals of the Ministry of the Environment for minimum water supply at Skollenborg, which involves an escalation from 1 April and which has an absolute minimum water flow of 65 m3/s from 25 May to 30 June. This will no longer create problems for the warehouses in the watercourse. Only in extreme dry years will the fulfillment of the Tunhovdfjord take a little longer. What remains then is that Statkraft SF follows up on studies of both emigration, emigration and survival of the salmon in the Numedallaggen, and that the conditions are also monitored in the longer term. To put it simply, the behaviour of salmon must be systematically investigated in relation to the regulations of this watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1369	A unanimous committee has agreed to a new concession in an unlimited time for the regulation of Halnefjord, Pålsbufjorden, Tunhovdfjorden and Rødbergdammen in Numedallaggen and the transfer of parts of the Session, Smådøla, Borgåi and Veig. The Christian People's Party welcomes the renewal of the concession. It has given rise to important corrections to make the conditions more consistent with current environmental requirements for the power industry and changing societal views. It is important to take the necessary steps to achieve technological and environmental improvements in the production of electricity. This is what Stortinget has joined in the energy message. In this context, the Christian People's Party shows that the measures taken to ensure salmon stocks and flood protection of the watercourse help to reduce the major regulatory disadvantages. Here I would like to mention in particular the Committee's proposal to reduce the height of the flood control station. Hopefully, this will both make production more efficient and have a flood-absorbing effect. The Christian People's Party is briefed on the conflict of interest between the natural and commercial interests of the upper and lower parts of the watercourse. Magasin municipalities want more water in the watercourses for aesthetics and fish. This is contrary to the wish of the river municipalities for more water-dropping mainly for the sake of salmon in the lower parts of the watercourse. The Committee has proposed a minimum flow of water higher than that proposed in the proposal. This is consistent with the watercourses that the Ministry of the Environment believes ensure a viable production of salmon in the Numedallaggen. The new provisions on minimum water flow are an important step towards ensuring a viable salmon strain in the watercourse. The years of life of salmon will be significantly improved by the new regulation. However, it is important to consider it after a decade. In order to ensure a good professional basis for any changes to the minimum water flow, it is also important that regular studies on the living conditions of salmon in the watercourse are carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1386	SV considered a long time to extend the minimum water flow of 65 m3/sec out of August, because we thought it was most defensive in relation to the wild salmon problem. After discussions with case spokesmen, however, we were overestimated that we should proceed with the proposal that has now been put forward, in part – to give some credit to the Right's case-speaker – because of a thorough work by the case-speaker's side which makes it easier for SV as an environmental party to agree to the position of a consensual one. Let me just say in the final analysis when it comes to the manoeuvring rules, that if there is a problem with the wild axis, we can go in and correct before 10 years. That's my starting point for being in this consensual setting, but of course, me and SV will, if there's a problem, front the handling regulation and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1393	I am pleased with the clarification and understanding of the assumptions that Langeland has underlined here, because there are many considerations to be taken into account when adopting a new handling regulation. In a river that is among the best salmon rivers in Norway and hence also in Europe, a river that has a reproducible strain of salmon in such a dense population area as the Numedalbatgen has, it is in line with the intentions already signalled by the Government in relation to the Rieber-Mohn Committee that it is nature and biology that must take precedence and that one must be sure to preserve the salmon population, which is quite special. Nowmedallaggen is one of Norway's best salmon elves. Lardal municipality, as I know best, decided already in 1983 in connection with the treatment of the Total Plan that instead of the concessional treatment for power development, the municipality wanted to preserve the special that a salmon-bearing watercourse in populace areas is. It is a unique contribution to the community, and is also more proper management of nature. That is why I am pleased that the salmon population has been taken into account, also with the adjustments made here in the Storing Committee, before the case is finally brought forward. Because the responsibility we have to manage biodiversity requires us to do just that. As far as follow-up is concerned, I am pleased – as has been emphasised here – that the regulator is responsible for monitoring the development of the stock both in the salmon and other species of fish further up in the river, and that the regulation can be re-examined within 10 years if it is needed in the interests of salmon and salmon stocks survival. With regard to today’s regulations, there is a good deal of change in what is now being proposed. According to today’s regulations – which were adopted in 1979 – the regulation on creaming still applies during the summer even if it is no longer timber creaming. That means that in the period 15 May–15. August the lid is well secured in respect of water, with the regulations of the day. But in the period 15 August and until 1 April, the winter part of the year, in fact, is the proposal from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, better than the regulations in force today. What was, however, the uncertainty, especially for those of us who live at the lower parts of the Low, was the summer watering. With the change that the Committee has now proposed, which is in line with the proposals of the Ministry of the Environment, namely that we should be stepped up from 1 April to 25 May, and then 65 m3/s throughout June, we have ensured that summer water management is better than what was originally in the proposal. I think that's an important signal. Firstly, it is important for the salmon itself, so I am very happy that it is adopted. But I am also pleased with the signal that the Committee on Energy and the Environment is sending here, for this is the first of the proposed salmon watercourses to be dealt with by a regulation on manoeuvring after the Rieber-Mohn Committee gave its opinion. I am very happy on behalf of Lågen that it was as good as it was, although I would like to have a little more water in August as well. I think this is a clear signal from the Committee on the Environment that the intentions of the Rieber-Mohn Committee, our responsibility to take care of the unique salmon strains in Norway, are to be followed up in the further work. In this way, I think the setting that now exists, firstly, provides a better starting point for the salmon in the lid than it could seem for a while in the process, but not least it also gives a signal that we will in the future leave the consideration of nature at the heart of discussing the manoeuvring regulations for our central watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1406	No. No. No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1420	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1433	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1442	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that approved medicine for Alzheimer’s disease, such as Aricept, is transferred to the usual bladder prescription system from 1 January 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1500	During the debate, Mr Gravdahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that health professionals who actively commit an abortion by means of the abortion pill can make a reservation.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1524	In the course of the debate, Mr Glötvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Appropriations under cover. 2790 item 72 Medical treatment abroad for the financial year 2000 may also be made available for medical treatment in Norway for patients who would be more likely to be treated in Norway than abroad. The Government requests such processing to be carried out as soon as possible in line with what is stated in the setting.» An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1702	The Presidency's proposal is that this document be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1705	This case is for a Document No. Eight proposals that have been made by those who are referred here, and we know that this case has been a repetition, even though it is up to the Council of State to decide such a case. A few weeks ago, the majority of the committee wanted to invite the Council of State to the committee to do the right thing for the rejection, but he could not come by reason of the Rules of Procedure, which says that when the committee does not have a matter sent over from the Storting, one cannot invite a Council of State. That is quite fine, and it is not the Rules of Procedure I want to say anything about. But now there's a Document No. Eight proposals that the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party would like to be forwarded to the Committee, so that we can have a discussion of the document, and so that we can also invite the Council of State if the Committee wishes to do so. When such a large minority as the Labour Party, which is the largest group, and SV asks that the case be sent to the Church, Education and Research Committee, I ask the Stortinget to say that it is OK.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1714	The President has noticed this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1717	The chairperson of the Committee forgot to draw attention to the fact that the meeting of the Council of State which was not held led to the choice of the majority of the Committee which wanted to hear the deepening of the Council of State to ask a written question instead, and that written question had been answered by the Council of State in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is why it is the opinion of the majority of the committee that a committee procedure cannot add anything to the matter beyond what is contained in the proposal, and that the majority should therefore be able to deal with the matter on the present basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1722	Of course, it's the power of the Biggest, and that power can be used by the Biggest. But I wonder if that's particularly wise. For the future consideration of this kind of matter of a principle nature, I believe that both the majority and the minority had been well-deserved that this matter was dealt with in the committee before it came up in the open hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-27.ana.ud1307e1727	Several have not asked for the word. The president then sums up the following: the representative Ranveig Frøiland has asked for a record case no. 209 is dealt with under point (b) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. sent to the Committee, while the Presidency refers to the proposal distributed in the Chamber, i.e. to be dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. are provided for review by the members of the thing for at least one day and then listed on the map for treatment.
