ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the evening – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e38	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e43	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e55	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e66	Ot. pp. No 31 for 1998-1999 was presented by the Council of State in the Ministry of Justice of the previous Government. Ot. pp. No 55 for 1999-2000 has been provided by the current government. The reason for the supplementary proposal is that four health reforms have been adopted in the meantime and in Ot.prp. No 55 therefore proposes certain technical adaptations. In Ot.prp. No 55 also clarifies the relationship between the substitution rules of pharmacies legislation and the rules on compensation for patient injuries. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that the Patient Injury Act should also apply to pharmacies. This is a new law, largely based on the temporary compensation scheme for patients who have worked since 1988. It is also extended to mental damage. It is important that the law focuses on the patient’s injury, and that the patient does not have to prove that anyone in the healthcare system can be molestered for the injury. The patient shall be given an easy opportunity to promote his/her case in respect of Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation. If the patient disagrees with the decision on compensation, he may proceed to the Patient Injury Subject or to the courts. Judicial proceedings often take a long time and may be costly for patients. Therefore, this law should make it easier for patients to be compensated after mistreatment. The law also applies when mistreatment takes place in private healthcare. Legal assistance shall initially not be necessary, but in certain cases Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation may be granted in advance by a lawyer in order to enable the patient to proceed with the case. There are doubts about where the law applies. I would like to say that the general rule is that the service must have been provided by a health professional who is authorised or licensed. The location of the damage is not decisive. The Committee asks the Government to improve the information for patients who believe that they have suffered damage, both in terms of promoting their complaint, orally or in writing, to Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, and, if necessary, to notify the insurance company, which is responsible for ensuring that private health services have an insurance scheme. The legislative proposal to increase the minimum compensation amount from NOK 5000 to NOK 10000 is not supported by the Committee, which considers it appropriate to continue the current lower limit of NOK 5000. The majority of the Committee would like all applications to be submitted to Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation for Investigation and Compensation Measurement, regardless of whether the damage has occurred in public or private healthcare. After the legislative proposal, insurance companies shall investigate and propose the amount of compensation. The members of the Workers' Party believe that it must be primarily the person who can be responsible for the compensation, who will investigate the matter. In the event of doubt as to who is responsible for the compensation, Norwegian Patient Compensation shall investigate the case, as proposed by the Ministry. If the majority's proposal that all cases be investigated by Norwegian Patient Indemnity Compensation is adopted, it is also natural that insurance companies pay their share of the administrative costs. As a result of the majority's amendment to Section 10, amendments to Sections 11, 12 and 15 must also be made. With regard to the Ministry’s proposal to reduce the number of members of the Patient Injury Study from five to three, the Committee does not support this, but suggests that the number of five should be maintained, as this scheme has worked well. The majority of the Committee also considers it important to clarify in Section 18 of the Act on Judicial Procedures, which states that only the patient or insurer under Section 8 can bring the case before the courts. I am addressing the proposal made by the Labour Party as a minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e98	The representative Lian has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e101	This is a big day for Norwegian patients. Their needs are put in the centre, and patients' rights are strengthened. Fortunately, the experience with the 1988 Act on Temporary Injury to Patients has been good. The Christian People's Party agrees that patients who are injured when they receive healthcare need special legal protection, because general rights to compensation do not provide adequate protection. The law has clear extensions and improvements supported by the Christian People's Party. Both public and private health services are included. It is clarified that treatment travel abroad is included. Ambulance transport is also included. There shall be no distinction between physical and mental damage. Damages caused by pharmacy activities are covered when the conditions of the law are otherwise fulfilled. The new Pharmacy Act provides for the exchange of a requested medicinal product with another generic equivalent medicinal product, and it goes without saying that this implies the potential for injury to patients. An overall committee has clarified that the scope of the law covers anyone working in the field of health care to provide health care. The most important thing of today’s law is the principle that the patient should not prove that anyone in the healthcare system can be molestered for the injury. There is no need for a careless assessment. I hope that an objective responsibility will be given to ensure that the patient is compensated without this being justified by mistakes made by individuals in the healthcare system, so that I can improve transparency and information about injuries. There's always going to be losses. Medical diagnosis and treatment pose a certain risk. Now it's not about placing blame, now it's about learning from mistakes. This will improve the quality of healthcare. The aim is to create a culture in which health professionals dare to acknowledge and report their own and colleagues’ mistakes without negative experiences. Christian People's Party wants Section 10, concerning the proceedings themselves, to be amended in such a way that Norwegian Patient's Damage Compensation treats all claims regardless of whether the damage is caused in public or private healthcare. During the hearing, the Norwegian Patient Association clarified that this would ensure a uniform procedure within a body which has acquired specific competence and experience in such claims. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that the subject of the patient's injury should have five members. This is reasonable in relation to, for example: Health care professional, appointed by at least seven members. The number is important to ensure that one member understands and takes care of user interests. Although the Lødrup Committee suggested that any financial loss should be covered, an overall committee says that one should have an amount limit, so that losses below NOK 5000 are not provided. The Christian People's Party agrees that the person who claims compensation cannot bring the case before the court until a decision has been taken in the Patient's Injury Study. The action should be brought within four months of the adoption of the decision. It should only be the patient and the person in the private sector who is required to pay compensation, who can complain. Although you see that complaints and payments increase proportionally, the intention is that this law should also ensure better quality of our healthcare. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, who has taken good care of the committee work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e129	I would like to join in everything Woie Duesund said, and especially to the last time she thanked the case rapporteur, who has done a good job of loosing the committee through a new law with many changes. It is gratifying that we are now receiving a permanent patient compensation permit for the temporary. It strengthens patient rights. Despite a good proposal from the Government, the Committee has made a number of changes to the law, and the Right belongs to the majority all the way. I think it is natural to mention that, in particular, the Norwegian Patient Association, the Medical Association and the FFO have provided useful input into the changes that the Committee has proposed. The general right to compensation does not provide patients with the best possible protection when harm occurs in the healthcare system. Therefore, the Patient Injury Act has a less strict rule of negligence, so to speak. We shift the centre of gravity from negligence and errors in health professionals to an assessment of whether the patient has been injured, even if no one can be loaded. It is important to obtain the best possible compensation for patients who are injured during treatment or stay in health institutions. Let me say a few words about the procedure. The right is also in the majority who suggest that no matter where the damage has occurred, Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation is to investigate the case. It's probably an unusual principle to put on, but we've thought it's been right to take care of patients' interests first and foremost. It will ensure, as many have been involved, a more uniform handling of complaints. It will also give patients the easiest way to proceed if they are injured, and it will provide the most certainty that similar cases are treated equally. Of course, the insurance federations have wanted a different solution, the one that was the original government, namely that the private health institutions that have taken out a private insurance policy should investigate where they themselves become a party to a case. So we didn't want to focus on it. It's said that this violates what's otherwise, and that's right. However, it is because the entire Patient Compensation Act violates the general compensation rules, precisely by ignoring whether there is negligence or error, but it is important that a patient should be compensated for any damage that has occurred. The majority have also relied on NOU 1992: 6, from the so-called Lødrup Committee, which was the background to this whole case, and where it was suggested that Norwegian patient damages should in any case be investigated. So finally some words about a couple of the last paragraphs. As has been mentioned by several, the Right also supports the fact that we retain five members in the Patient Damage Study. I think it's important to have legal expertise, but also medical expertise and user expertise. The last one is not least important. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of the law stating that the scope of the law also applies to Norwegian patients who are treated abroad, when the treatment is covered in full or in part by the public sector. I am particularly pleased that the committee says that this should also apply during the so-called treatment trips abroad. Here the public, especially the Rikshospital, has provided incorrect information for many years, so that patients who have been injured while staying abroad during the so-called treatment trips have not received such coverage as they thought they would receive, as the Rikshospital has for many years sent out brochures saying that they are covered as if they had been treated in a Norwegian hospital. By now stating that the law will apply even in the case of a treatment trip abroad, I hope – I hope first and foremost that the damage will be done – that they will be treated as if they were treated at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e146	There is little political disagreement in the present position, which is about the legalisation of the patient injury regime. The current scheme, which is not statutory but was established at a kgl. the 1988 resolution has worked so far after the intention, namely that patients are not required to demonstrate, in the event of a complaint to the patient’s claims, that the treatment has been mistreated or failed by the treatment site or by the treatment provider. The number of compensation payments has been rising sharply in recent years, but on the other hand there has been no particular increase in compensation issues in civil courts. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we would like to point out that the amounts of compensation provided through Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation appear to be somewhat low in some cases in relation to the amounts of compensation provided for in the ordinary legal system for treatment damages. The party of progress is pleased that Section 18 of the original draft law opens up the possibility for people other than patients to sue the ordinary legal system after the final treatment has been carried out by the Patient injury department. Here, the Progress Party departs from the majority, as the majority have limited the right to appeal to patients only, while Section 18 of the Law Proposition opens up so that others can bring the case before the judiciary. The Progress Party has therefore allowed itself, as its proposal, to promote the original Section 18, as it existed in the Proposition. The Progress Party is also pleased that there is a majority proposal to amend Section 10, which has the consequence that the Patient Damage Study will investigate all complaints, including complaints against private health services and insurance companies. The reason for this change is that patients should only have one place to address their complaints and avoid an experience-based conflict with different insurance companies. Furthermore, the majority have pointed out that it is important to ensure more uniform treatment of different complaints that there is one body fully investigating the case. Finally, I would like to stress the importance that the new Patient Damage Act will now cover all types of healthcare, whether public or private, and otherwise include damage that occurs where healthcare professionals have been involved. It is also positive that the majority have been given an addendum to the fact that patients can also be harmed in connection with treatment travel abroad. This is a significant safety factor for these patients. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e161	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e164	It is an important legal reform for patients' legal status that is being treated in Odelstinget today. The aim of healthcare is to combat disease, injury, suffering and disability. However, despite a high level of health care in Norway, some patients are harmed by health care treatment. The legislative proposal is therefore aimed at strengthening the protection of compensation law against these. The legislative proposal is largely based on the temporary compensation scheme for patients who have worked since 1 January 1988. This temporary arrangement is now replaced by a permanent and statutory arrangement. The legislative proposal also covers private sector health services and means an important extension of the rules on patient injury compensation. In particular, there are two factors that have contributed to the general right to compensation being considered to provide insufficient protection for the injury to patients. Firstly, it has proved to be in practice difficult for injured parties to prove that the conditions for compensation are met in such cases. This may be due to the fact that it may often be difficult for injured parties to understand what has really happened, and it may be difficult to assess whether, in the specific case, there is so-called non-negligence. This because one here is usually going to depend on medical expertise. The second relationship is that there will often be a resource difference between the parties in cases of patient injury compensation. The patient will often not have the strength necessary to promote a claim and, where appropriate, to exercise the right to claim. In view of this, it is proposed to propose rules to facilitate the award of compensation than under the general rules on compensation. Among other things, it is added. up to an objectiveisation of the basis of liability. This means that the patient does not have to prove that anyone in the healthcare system can be molestered for the injury to occur. It will be sufficient to demonstrate that there has been a failure in the performance of health care. Furthermore, it is proposed that there should be a purely objective responsibility for some of the details, such as technical failures and infections. I have found that there is a broad consensus in the Social Committee on such an objectiveisation of the basis of responsibility. Following the Ministry's proposal, it was suggested that the public sector claims should be dealt with at first instance by Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, while private sector claims should be dealt with initially by the insurance company concerned. However, both the decision of the Norwegian patient damages and the decisions of the insurance companies should be subject to an appeal to the Patient Injury Division. I have noticed that a majority of the Social Committee proposes that all claims, regardless of whether they have arisen in the public or private sector, be investigated by Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation at first instance. This means that an insurance company which is liable for a claim in the private sector does not itself have the opportunity to investigate and settle the claim. In my opinion, it would be reasonable for the insurance companies that may be required to pay to decide on the claim first. The fact that the insurance company itself assesses and takes a decision on the requirement at first instance also means that the parties can reach a rapid agreement on the compensation if the circumstances so permit. As pointed out in the Government's proposal, the prompt and flexible treatment of claims may also constitute a competitive advantage for insurance undertakings which the law should not take away from them. The patient's concern will also be safeguarded by the fact that the decision of the insurance companies can be appealed against to the Patient Injury Division. In addition, the Ministry's proposal provided that the claim could be directly brought to the attention of the sufferer if the insurance company did not take a decision within six months of the notification of the claim. In my opinion, therefore, the best reasons were given to follow the Ministry's proposal that insurance companies should settle their own claims at first instance. But, of course, I take note of the majority's view. I have also noticed that a broad majority of the Social Committee proposes some other minor changes to the rules of procedure in relation to the proposal in the proposal. This applies, inter alia, to: a proposal that a case for damages to patients may not be brought before the courts before a final decision is given in the Patient Injury Division, a proposal for a clarification and a limitation on who should be able to appeal against a decision and who should be able to bring the decision before the courts, and a proposal for the inclusion of five and not three members in accordance with the interim system. Of course, I take note of all the proposals and feel sure that the legislative proposal under consideration today means an important improvement in the legal position of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e199	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e206	In the last 20 years, a number of different working groups and selections have been set up to assess different aspects such as operation, organisation and responsibilities, legal issues, etc. for the epidemiological registers in Norway. Among the samples that have addressed issues related to health records, mention can be made of the Lerche Committee, the Helmsvik Committee, interim report No. 6, and NOW 1993:22 pseudonymous health records. The IT plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the NOU 1997:26 Access to health records can also be mentioned. In November 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent out draft laws on health records and the electronic processing of health data to be consulted. 101 responses to the letter of hearing were received. Many of the hearings that came may be marked by the fact that there is a somewhat complicated law, that it may be difficult to capture some of the key issues. However, both during the hearings and later, when the department presented its final proposal to the Stortinget, particular attention was paid to privacy. In the context of the consultation of the Social Committee, we have seen that there have been objections that have been quite similar, or at least have drawn in the same direction, from both the Data Protection Authority and the former head of the sample that issued the NOU 1993:22, Erik Boe, as from the Norwegian Medical Association. When the Social Committee started its work on the present proposition, it became apparent that it was willing to take account of the objections that had arisen and that it wanted to look at changes in relation to what the Government had proposed. So this is a proposal from the previous government to which the sitting government has joined, and the proposition has not been withdrawn. In its comments, the Committee noted that the current draft law on health records and processing of personal data clarify the basis for existing health records. The Committee is aware that such clarification has previously been requested by several teams in order to ensure good data-based personal data guidelines, and the Committee also points out the overall positiveness of the legislative proposal to meet this need. In general, the Committee considers that stricter requirements should be laid down to accept the establishment of a health record for management than for health care. Because the management’s need for information based on the desire for better prevention strategies really does not have any limits, the whole population’s way of life can in principle be recorded. In the view of the Committee, such records should therefore be withheld. They should be de-identified or pseudo-nymised in such a way that no one is at risk of weighing information on one’s lifestyle and lifestyle. I would also like to stress that the Committee has noted that in Ot.prp. No 5 for 1999-2000 is proposed to authorise the Stortinget to establish registers at central, regional and local levels by regulation, as provided for in §§ 7 and 8 of the draft law. The same Regulation may provide that the collection of health data is to be carried out even if the data subject has not consented, as stated. Section 9. In the light of the objections raised by the Committee to the draft legislation, proposals for amendments have been made on essential points in relation to what the Government proposes. There have also been objections to the purpose paragraph as it was originally designed, because the two-part division that the purpose paragraph initially had could seem unclear as to whether it was central to recording the health information or whether the central part was also to safeguard privacy. So the objective now proposed by the Committee integrates the concept of ‘personal protection’ more centrally into the description of purposes. Because it has been central to the Committee to ensure that it is the Storting that determines the types of registers that are not avanonymised, changes have also been made to the definitions in Section 2. There, a concept used by Erik Boe in 1993 in his public investigation into pseudonymous health information was included, and defined the concept. The concept has also been included in the notes and otherwise in the legal text where it has been necessary to equate it with other ways of recording data. In addition, the Committee has changed the concept of ‘treatment-oriented health records’, so that it no longer talks about the fact that the records/archives in their actual sense are part of the treatment-oriented health register, but that it is the journal and information system itself that allows the withdrawal of the information that is part of the treatment-oriented health register. The Committee has also amended Section 5 in the light of the changes made in Sections 7, 8 and 9, stressing that it is the responsibility of the Stortinge to handle the establishment of non-avanonymised health records. The key changes come in particular in Sections 7 and 8. Section 7 states that ‘there are no regional and local health records with health records other than those resulting from this or other law’, so that it can no longer be established by regulation. The same applies to the central health records, which have been included in the first subparagraph: ‘There are no central health records with health records other than those resulting from this or other law.’ In the same paragraph, the Committee has listed the registers entered and clarified each of the registers in force. Thus, the Causes of Death Registry, Cancer Registry, Medical Birth Registry, Disease Notification System, Central Tuberculosis Registry and Vaccine Control System have been clarified. There are also § 9 amendments to the amendments made to Sections 7 and 8 in order to agree to the law. The same applies to some other paragraphs of the law, so that overall, quite significant changes have been made based on the objections that have been raised and that have thus been passed. I would like to praise the Committee as a whole for these changes and for the fact that there is an overall committee behind the legislative proposal that is now in place. It must appear to be a strength to help the population feel secure that, when health information is used, it may be obtained from records, it is done in a way that preserves privacy and does not work in violation, and at the same time collects information in a manner that is appropriate, so that it can contribute to the strengthening of public health and to the identification of possible diseases in the population. In this way, I think we can all say today that we have been given a good law, a law that will be worthy of the purpose for which it is intended to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e245	If we are to receive good health care, we need both those who plan health services and those who provide health services, good knowledge of causes of illness and reduced health, knowledge of what keeps us healthy, and the treatment methods that are effective. One of the reasons for this is to collect information on the population’s diseases. The cancer register we have today is such a collection of information that provides health professionals and researchers with better opportunities to find causes for disease, develop good treatment methods and respond to prevention options that can promote good health. The development of information technology is likely to lead us to record more health information in the future than before, including information that can be collected in registers for a large group of people. Now the Storting will adopt a law that regulates this, for until now there are only scattered provisions in health legislation in this area. It is therefore important that the basis for the collection of health data, registration, storage and use of such data be regulated in one law. This provides a better opportunity to process health data in accordance with basic values and mandatory data protection requirements, while at the same time ensuring that some of us have full access to how our health data are processed. On this basis, by establishing registers of individual disease groups, knowledge of the health conditions of the population can be gained, the reason for the reduction of health and the development of disease, which can then be used in research, planning, quality assurance, statistics and management. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Committee has had a thorough examination of the matter. One central theme was the question of who could set up registers – the Stortinget or the King in the Council of State. It was agreed in the Government's proposal that the King of State may provide for the establishment of health records in cases where personal data have been identified or pseudonymised. The same applies in cases where the data subject has consent. It is important to stress that consent is the general rule. That is to say, the name, birth number or other direct person-identifying characteristics may only be processed with the consent of the data subject. Furthermore, there is reason to stress that there should always be a clear purpose for the processing of health data, i.e.: the establishment of health records. The challenge in the committee work, as mentioned earlier, was whether the King of State Council should also be empowered to establish health records in cases where identification, pseudonymisation or other forms of anonymisation of personal data are not so easily obtainable. The proposal stipulated that this should be done by the King of State Councils, but the Committee agreed that in these cases the Storting is the body to decide on the establishment of such new registers. It may seem to be the case and experience in the future will show whether this is appropriate and necessary legislation and, where appropriate, practice. The consequences of this change in relation to the proposition have been addressed in a very good way by the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the health records we have today are going to be able to pass as they are now. It is very important both for the quality assurance of health services and for research, health administration and preventive health work. I also think it is important, as the rapporteur stressed, that we have now received a law as an overall committee and hopefully also a total odelsting behind it. It will make it easier to interpret and practice the law. With that, I think the committee has done a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e258	The legislative proposal we are now considering is important and really concerns us all. The legislative proposal on health records and the processing of health data has a two-sided purpose: to help provide health services and health management with information and knowledge, including: on the health conditions of the population and the reasons for the reduction of health and the development of disease. At the same time, the law must ensure privacy. The bill was promoted by the central government and has not been withdrawn by the Labour Party government. The Committee has done a thorough job, not least because the rapporteur has the honour to do so. It may therefore appear that the decision of the Committee differs significantly from the original legislative proposal. But that's not right. In particular, there is one aspect that the Committee has wanted to change in relation to the proposal, and it is that health records containing personally identifiable health information cannot be established by regulation but will be dealt with in the Stortinget. Such records in which health information can be returned to individuals should not be established without proper review of the purpose and need for such a register. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this consideration is best addressed through open political treatment. In the case of other types of registers, where the information has been processed in such a way that it cannot be returned to individuals, there is no reason to require similar treatment. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the law has achieved a good balance between the individual's interest in privacy and society's need for information that can lead to knowledge of disease and treatment, which will ultimately benefit everyone. A conscientious record gives us good evidence of the prevalence and incidence of diseases, which in turn may provide a basis for action to combat these diseases. In addition, information on treatment methods and drug use can be obtained, which may reveal both positive and negative effects. Health records are an important tool for public health. Health records should be based as far as possible on consent and volunteering and therefore depend on public confidence. With today’s electronic data processing, it is a difficult but very important task to ensure that the information is correct, relevant and necessary for the tasks of the registry. In my opinion, the legislative proposal takes this into account in a good way. I also see it as reassuring that the Committee is united on this law. In fact, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left believe that there is no reason to change § 2-3 of the Code of Disease Protection, as proposed by the Proposition and the Committee majority. This hardly seems dramatic, either by the majority or by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e269	The objective of the second of the laws to be adopted today is to facilitate good information security in the processing of health data. We get, as many people have been involved, through this law a clear basis for the existing health records, we get a law for health records and the processing of health data. It's positive both for patients and for society. Like the Committee as a whole – the rapporteur mentioned earlier – I believe it is important that we stress that stricter requirements should be laid down to accept the establishment of health records for the administration than for healthcare. The administration may feel that it has many needs, but the needs of the administration need to be different in terms of safeguarding privacy, while the health service is more dependent on it in order to provide good and quality assurance. In principle, the administration, by pointing out better prevention strategies, can have an interest in, desire and need to record everything we do from cradle to grave. I don't want that, for reasons I shouldn't get any closer to here, but in any case such records should be de-identified or pseudonymized when they are created. It is, I think, very happy that it is so to say full agreement in the committee on the changes we are making, so that we have a purpose for the law that integrates the two main considerations that the law has, to contribute to providing health care and administration with information and knowledge so that healthcare can be provided in a sound and effective way, and to safeguard privacy. These two considerations are now more closely integrated in the purpose paragraph than, in any case, they were in the draft of the proposition after the Right View. In principle, the bill in the bill was a mere law of jurisdiction. I have rarely seen a bill that looked to the degrees invited the Stortinget to just empower the ministry in this area to do what they thought was reasonable, whether it was central, regional or local. Even with person-identifiable information, and even if the data subject had not given his consent, the Storting should only authorise the ministry to do so when they found it too well. It's right here that the biggest change is going on. Although it's this one that goes through all the changes we've made, I probably wouldn't have formulated myself just like Are Næss did, and say there weren't so many changes. There is a change in the very significant and centrality, and then it doesn't matter how many changes there are. We have made a significant change to this law, and I am very pleased to do so on behalf of the Right. I'm also pretty sure that Asmund Kristoffersen will not get right that this will be a very inconvenient way to do it. When we get the Storting into this way, it ensures a greater breadth of the democratic process, a greater breadth of responsibility for the creation of identity-identifiable health records. Because that's what we're restricted to – but it's important. When the Right has gone into the rush to change the bill that was submitted, from a law of authority to a law that requires statutory personal identifiers, it is not because we are opponents of such registers. On the contrary. I have taken the initiative myself and got a majority in this Chamber to set up a so-called MS register, to great joy, I think, both for patients, for health professionals and for researchers, and probably also for health management. I believe that we need more person-identifiable disease records to ensure quality of treatment and diagnostics, but they should be established after consultation with the affected and following a decision in Stortinget. With the law that we are now invited to adopt, I join the case rapporteur's conclusion. We get a good law that will be decent for patients as well as for health care, for health management and for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e284	When the draft law was presented, it created a certain debate, and in particular about who it was that would be able to set up central health registers. The starting point of the law was that regulations should be able to regulate which registers could be established. Many disagreed, when one believed that the Storting had to establish these personal data registers, if it were to trigger the health care professional’s obligation to provide information without permission from the data to which it relates. It is therefore gratifying that there is an overall committee which supports the fact that, in these cases, the Stortinget will take a concrete view of such possible establishment of this type of health records. The Committee attaches great importance to ensuring that privacy is best protected. As the Progress Party sees it, the purpose paragraph of the law is a certainty that this could be followed up in a good way. Its name is, among other things, where: ‘The law shall ensure that health information is processed in accordance with fundamental data protection considerations, including the need for personal integrity, privacy and adequate quality of health information.’;» It must be acknowledged that this has been a very difficult matter with a number of different balances, it is a question of who should be able to establish the registers, to what extent one should take into account any views of the Data Protection Authority, and not least how one should be able to maintain the privacy of the individual in the best possible way. This is how the Progress Party sees it, now well cared for in the Committee's position on the Odelsting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e298	It is an important legislative proposal that is now under consideration. I am therefore pleased that the attitude of the Social Committee to the Odelstinget is unanimous. The purpose of the law is to facilitate the safe exchange of information and the building up of knowledge in health management and healthcare without prejudice to privacy, so that healthcare can be provided in a sound and effective manner. Through research and statistics, the law shall contribute to the knowledge of the health conditions of the population, the reasons for the reduction of health and the development of disease for administration, quality assurance, planning and management. The law shall contribute to ensuring strong patient protection as well as privacy. The protection of privacy must be a strong concern for all processing of health data, both because health data are sensitive and because these data stem from a trust relationship between patients and treating health professionals. The Data Protection Act applies to all processing of personal data which is carried out in whole or in part by electronic means and by personal data registers. The Health Register Act is a special law in relation to the Data Protection Act. A coherent legal framework for the electronic processing of health data and the establishment of health records is important in order to provide an overview of the exchange of information in the health management and healthcare system and of the data subject’s ability to monitor how information on them is processed. The law clears up the basis for the current central health register and provides a legal basis for the continuation of current practices in these. It is proposed that these registers be regulated by a regulation adopted by the King of State Council and after consultation of the Data Protection Authority. The law imposes strict requirements for the establishment of new health records in the health administration. The attitude of the Social Committee has been strengthened in relation to the proposal in the odelstningsproposition. I agree with and agree with this tightening. New health records may only be established with the name, birth number and other directly identifiable information if the data subject agrees. An exception to this may only be made by the Storting by legislative decisions. Any new health records which do not require the consent of the data subject shall be de-identified or pseudonymous. It must be a goal to find registry solutions that reasonably satisfy public health without infringing privacy. I agree with the Committee's view that health records with identified or pseudonymous health information contribute to the protection of privacy. By requiring the landfilling before the establishment of new registers without consent, a democratic process is ensured with the necessary balances between the need for registers and privacy considerations. Information and transparency for the data subject is an important principle of the Health Register Act. The law provides the data subject with a more comprehensive right of access to data relating to a personal data subject than that provided by the Data Protection Act, while the Health Register Act also allows for the transparency of personal data which are only used for historical, statistical or scientific purposes. In addition, the data subject under the Health Register Act may be more easily erased or blocked if they feel burdensome to the data subject. The law also regulates electronic records and information systems. Patient-administrative systems, which are currently concession-based, are covered by the Health Registry Act in order to ensure the rights of the data subject. The electronic patient record is closely linked to the professional performance of healthcare professionals and the legal basis for electronic patient records, the obligation of healthcare professionals to document, professional secrecy, etc. belongs naturally to the Health Personnel Act. However, the electronic system is also regulated by the Health Register Act by providing access to security requirements in relation to data-based record-keeping systems. Under the Health Register Act, standards and software requirements, electronic signature requirements, communication requirements, classification systems and coding works may be required. These conditions are of great importance for the involvement of IT in the health sector and the ability to impose on all levels of healthcare the use of compatible systems, etc. The Data Protection Authority shall monitor compliance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in the field of data protection. Health surveillance by the State shall supervise the health profession. In the event of damage resulting from the processing of health data contrary to the law, it shall be replaced. Clear criminal provisions are introduced for offences against the law. In summary, I would like to say that the legislative proposal presented here provides a good framework for the achievement of the objective of the law – effective and sound health care for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e331	When we finally agree on most things, of course, you shouldn't be bothering with intrigued questions, and there's really no desire to be intrigued either. However, as has been pointed out, the minority – and SV belongs to the minority – have proposed that no changes should be made to the IPD, because it is considered that the IPD should be treated as other laws, and when a health record system is established, it may seem illogical for it to be treated in a special way. I ask – I had almost said out of curiosity – because I have a little difficulty in seeing what is in the majority view that it is necessary to amend sections 2-3 of the IPD Act. I definitely have a certain understanding of it if it would be difficult for the Minister of Health to explain it, because I think the question is complicated – jus is complicated. And this is no attempt to establish the Minister of Health. I underline that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e339	Since the representative Ballo does not like to ask intrigued questions, and does not want to establish the Minister of Health, I preferred, of course, that he had not intervened on the occasion of the case either. And since he specifically asks for an explanation of the majority's reasons for the case, I prefer to have the opportunity to put myself better into the majority reasoning before I come back to the representative Ballo with an intriguing answer to an intricate question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e344	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 394]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e359	Before the vote, the President will announce that the called alternate of the Eastfold County, Morten Olsen, has taken the seat. The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e370	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Karin Lian on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e527	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Patient Injury Compensation Act, etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:Section 10, first paragraph:Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation or the insurer who may become liable under Section 8 investigates the case. In case of doubt, Norwegian Patient Compensation determines who will investigate it.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e560	There is an aberrant proposal, No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 11 Legal aidThe costs of legal assistance of the patient are covered if the person investigating the case has made a decision to that effect, or the costs are deemed to be losses as a result of the damage. The patient may require a preliminary ruling from the person investigating the case on the legal costs to be covered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e595	There is then a proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party to Section 12, second paragraph, and this proposal is contested. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 12, second paragraph, where an insurer has investigated the case, it shall be decided whether to pay compensation and, where appropriate, the amount of compensation. It shall be disclosed that the decision may be appealed against in respect of the subject of the patient’s injury within three weeks.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e654	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§15 first and second paragraphs:The individual decisions of the Norwegian Patient Indemnification Allowance referred to in the second sentence of Section 14 and the corresponding decisions of insurers pursuant to Section 8 may be appealed to the Patient Indemnification Name of the patient and others who have suffered a loss due to patient injury. In addition, the individual decision of the Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation may be appealed against by a liable under the second sentence of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6, or by his insurer under Section 8, which is required to pay compensation by the decision. Others may not appeal against the individual decision of the Norwegian Patient Indemnification Allowance or an equivalent decision of the insurers. The period for lodging a complaint is three weeks.When six months have elapsed since the notification of the claim, claims against an insurer may be brought to the Patient Injury Division under Section 8 regardless of whether the decision has been taken.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e729	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Patient Injury Compensation Act, etc. § 18 shall be replaced by the following:§ 18 The person who claims compensation under the law here may bring the case before the courts at the earliest when six months have elapsed after the claim for compensation has been filed under Section 9. Others may bring the case before the courts at the earliest when a final decision is taken in the Patient Injury Division. The case must be brought within two months at the latest from the date of notification of the final decision in the Patient Injury Division to the person concerned. Where that period has expired without an action being brought, the decision shall have the same effect as a final judgment and may be enforced in accordance with the rules of the court.The action shall be brought against the person responsible in accordance with Section 6 or his insurer in accordance with Section 8. If compensation has been or has not been decided upon by the Norwegian Patient Injury or Patient Injury Department, conciliation is not necessary. If an action is brought before the General Court and the injured party requests the dispute to be settled by the Patient Injury Division, the court may stay the proceedings until the Patient Injury Division has taken a final decision. Where a court has brought an action after the first sentence, the period laid down in the second subparagraph shall apply in order to bring the case again. Once the time limit has expired, the Court of Justice shall bring the matter before the Court of Justice.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e849	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e858	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e1543	The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they are moving towards the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e1593	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e1602	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-05-lower-2.ana.ud1554e1611	There is no record.
