ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e28	The representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Eli Sollied Överaas, Siri A. Meling, Øyvind Korsberg, Ivar Østberg, Synnøve Konglevoll and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The designated alternate of the Rogaland County, Ingrid Fisaa, is prevented from meeting under the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland’s leave of 14 and 15 November, due to foreign residence. Other alternates of the Rogaland County, Helga Eggebø, are invited to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Helga Eggebø is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Ivar Kristiansen on leave from 14 November to 16 November to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Zyktyvkar in Russia from the Christian People's Party on the leave of the representative Arne Lyngstad on 14 and 15 November to take part in the Nordic days in Berlin, organised by the Norwegian Embassy in Berlin and the German Bundestag On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for the Nordland county of May Anne Brand and the Nord-Trøndelag county of Astri Wessel, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e95	May Anne Brand and Astri Wessel are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e100	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e105	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e110	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e138	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Selected City of Reply Haugland State Council Odd Einar City Council Børge Burnde The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, André Kukkestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e157	I want to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Today’s Newspaper shows that a father has raped his son at Ila State Prison while he was son of his pedophilia No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Judicial psychiatrists declared in 1997 that there was a qualified risk of recurrence. Nevertheless, one chose not to supervise during visits, and one also chose to give the man leave. Will the Council of State take steps to tighten up this practice, or does the Minister of Justice defend this practice of visits and leave as current government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e166	Of course, we all react with strong feelings and with disgust at child abuse. And the matter to which the representative refers is now a matter for the courts. Of course, I want to go through the rules we have, to be absolutely sure that they provide the best possible protection for the weakest party, namely the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e173	You can see that there has been a repetition of repetition here. The measures generally considered to be applicable have obviously not worked. The Council of State will look at the need for other measures in such cases, such as: chemical castration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e178	In the previous magnification, there was broad support for a pilot scheme with what the representative calls chemical castration. And as I know, it must be prepared to launch such an experiment at a Norwegian prison. I'll follow up on the knowledge from that attempt to take it with me. But once again, I would like to stress to the representative that the weakest party, the child, must be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e185	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e188	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. For nearly 100 years in Norway, we have had different lexicons, different reference works, which have been a source of information and knowledge for both children, young people and adults. The Internet counter has shown that the basis for the sale of such reference works is no longer present in the same way. The Internet age has also not provided a market and a payment system that provides the basis for maintaining such knowledge bases. The government of Stoltenberg therefore took the initiative in a draft tender where different actors could offer a knowledge base that could be free of charge for schools, for students, for universities and for libraries. In that way, we would take care of the heritage of knowledge and the cultural heritage that this represents. Now the Bondevik government has put this case to death. My question to the Minister of Culture is, Why is the matter sidelined?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e197	It's not correct what the questioner said at the end, that the government has killed the case. The Bondevik government has not. This is a matter for which the Clemet Council has the primary responsibility. First of all, the government decided that the supply that was there was not good enough for us to say yes to them. It's been a long round. We've had the Bing Committee, as the representative knows. At first they could not make any recommendations. Send them some additional questions, which were given to the Government shortly after the government change. After a holistic assessment, we found out that the two offers were there, we couldn't say yes. However, the Government has decided to initiate an active dialogue, including: with the relevant providers, to assess how this knowledge database can be included in a national knowledge policy. So we're going to follow this case, and I hope that we can get to a result that's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e205	I thank you for your answer. It's interesting what the Minister of Culture says, because it's a contradiction to what the Minister of Education said to the media a short time ago. Then there was a cost question, and that was the reason why this matter had been dropped. Those who have submitted a tender in this case have not been invited to a dialogue – they have not been invited to a meeting – but have been told, on the contrary, that the case has been dismissed. Yesterday, the Knowledge Publisher, who is one of the bidders, held the board meeting and decided to permite his employees and put his Internet-based update on ice, precisely because the government has been so defensive in this matter. My question is: are these new signals from the Government that those who have submitted tenders can now expect to be invited to discussions and to dialogue, with the result that we will arrive at a knowledge base that can be published free of charge for students, students and libraries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e216	I would like to stress that the signals I'm giving now are not new. I refer to a government decision, and it is a decision that the Minister of Education, of course, must follow up. What dialogue the Minister of Education has had with the various actors, of course, I do not have detailed knowledge of, because I am not following the case further. But we're going to engage in an active dialogue, and we have a desire to take care of the knowledge base. But of course it was also a cost question. The supply that was leading was not in line with the demands that were there, and the supply was also relatively expensive. But that dialogue is to be brought up, and the Minister of Education is in full swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e223	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e226	My follow-up question goes to State Council Odd Einar Dørum. In the election campaign Odd Einar Dørum was very concerned with a national knowledge base and actively engaged in this matter. He went to the choice on the slogan "Dorum Delivers". My question is: Does Dørum think that he has delivered in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e233	I must admit that the representative has a very good question. It is true that when you are Minister of Justice, you have the opportunity to express your views in the contexts of the Government, and I have nothing to add to what the Minister of Culture has just said. But I understand that the representative, based on what I have said in public space, had reason to ask me the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e240	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e243	I will follow up with the Minister of Culture. In reply to Trond Giske, the Minister of Culture said that she would enter into an active dialogue, and she also hoped that they would arrive at a result. When entering an active dialogue, there are certain forms of what such a dialogue should contain. In addition, I also assume that when one hopes for a result, there are certain reasonings about what such a result should mean. The question then arises: will the Council of State facilitate a digital knowledge base, i.e. that a rate of all resources and forces to reach an agreement, either with a simple publisher or with a group of publishers, with the different providers, so that we can get out a digital knowledge base, and free of charge for those who want to use it? Is this Council of States hoping to do so? It is important to know whether the Council of State wants to enter into such a dialogue, or whether it is just empty words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e252	I'm quite content to repeat myself. I would first like to regret that since I am not responsible for following up this case, I do not have the detailed knowledge of how that dialogue will be. It is the Council of State, Kristin Clemet, who is responsible for this. Rather, it is useful to ask her next time about how she intends to join an active dialogue. But the government has decided to join an active dialogue. Therefore, the responsible Council of State will follow it in such a way. We see the value of taking care of the valuable base that's lying there. We also see the value of it being useful both for this generation and for future generations. That's our intention. Then I hope that you understand that one needs to ask more detailed questions to the Council of State that will follow up the work in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e261	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e264	I would like to ask a question to the Council of State Electiond Reply City Haugland. The oil fund has invested 146 million Norwegian pensioners in class bomb production, despite the fact that the Stortinget has ordered the Government to work internationally for a ban on class bombs, which is a very cruel weapon. SV has previously revealed that the oil fund has also invested in landmine production. After a long drag fight, we were lucky to have these investments in landmine production pulled out. So now we've revealed that we're investing in class bombs that are being dropped over Afghanistan right now. This is shameful and shows the Norwegian double standards related to this type of investment. My challenge to the State Council Answering City of Haugland is this: we now make sure that the oil fund immediately withdraws from this investment, and will she take the initiative of the Government to ensure that the oil fund is ethically guided?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e273	I agree with the description that Øystein Djupedal gives, and this is a big ethical dilemma. We have therefore said in the Sem Declaration that we will use the extraction mechanism effectively when we discover such a use of our oil wealth. So I want to answer yes to the question. We're forced to pull out where we know that class bombs are produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e279	I am very pleased with the answer. That we're withdrawing from this production is a very uplifting move. In this case, it will help to ensure that Norway is not in the international scandalous hook. What we're constantly seeing is that we're pulling out after SV has come up with revelations. It keeps Norway in trouble when we invest our money in a number of companies that are systematically violating human rights, for example. in Burma. That means we have to have an ethical code that is at the forefront, which prevents the oil fund from entering into this kind of investment. My second challenge to the State Council's Answer City of Haugland is: will the Government now ensure that such legislation is put in place, as one might, for example. in large pension funds in the United States, as Storebrand has, as many international financial actors now have, just to avoid the shame of being taken down, which SV has now again been able to reveal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e288	Firstly, I am pleased that SV has this active involvement, and that they have revealed it to a person who had not been revealed in advance. I want to show you the Sem statement, where it says that one will go deeper into this problem than the previous government did. We want to be more offensive. We also know more today than we knew the previous time we were in government, as we also dealt with these issues. I would like to stress that to the extent that we can't reveal this in advance, it's good that we can pull ourselves out afterwards. Because I don't think we can ever achieve full disclosure or full knowledge until we invest. But as far as we can do, of course, we'll try to achieve that goal. And then the extraction mechanism is good to have when SV or possibly others had to reveal things that we disagree with that we should invest our oil money in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e295	Prior to the next main question, the President will note that the expression ‘to be taken with the pants down’ used by the representative, Mr Djupedal, is not a parliamentary expression. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e300	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment, Brende, and this is about the predatory issue. The reason why the question is raised today is that this is a very topical issue in Uppland these days, and, as you know, there are major problems in more places in our country. In the case of the extraction of harmful predatory game, two regimes apply. One, the SNO, the state's nature agency, does the job, and then the state covers all expenses. The second is that, upon application to the county council, the municipality is given birth permits. The rules here are very deficient in terms of cost compensation. Will the Minister for the Environment contribute to equal treatment for the two regimes, so that local administration can be strengthened, or will we have to wait for a new report on predators in 2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e309	First, I would like to say that predator management is a rather challenging task. Because we've decided we're going to have a rootstock of predators, while at the same time we've opened up for active activity in our outlanders. Getting a combination here is not easy. That is why we need to put in place a series of remedial measures. We now have a number of projects going on, which involve testing dogs, fences, etc. When the results of these test projects are available, Stortinget will receive a separate notification. But once in a while, it's actually necessary to take the step of killing pests. And when you first go to that step, I'm not unwilling to go in and look at the financial side of it. It's an appropriate question who's going to have that task. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e316	It is nice that the Council of State is in favour of this and understands that the problem is difficult. But my question was, is there money in the budget to see that local government has the same opportunities as SNO has?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e321	As far as the budget is concerned, account has been taken of the fact that, if necessary, pests must be removed, but of course within the framework of the international commitments we have, including under the Berne Convention. But if it's going to take out pests first, I think it's more of a practical question who's going to do it, and who's going to get the refund. If it is most appropriate that the municipalities carry out this operation, I am willing, as I also said in my first response, to go in and assess whether the municipalities can be compensated. But I have not taken a decision on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e326	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e329	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Police are currently using a lot of resources to transport prisoners and to transport asylum seekers. Yesterday’s VG shows that the Cooperative Government is now opening up to the privatisation of prisoner transport. We all know that this is an old struggle case for the Progress Party, but that this was a question with which the cooperation parties were willing to ‘deal’, I am a little surprised, and that the Left, as an old champion of the rule of law, is willing to give in to such a fundamental question, amazes me. For the Workers' Party, there are very good reasons to be skeptical of such privatisation of the state's ability to use power. My question to Minister of Justice Dørum is whether he, as Minister of Justice, is concerned that such fundamental issues as the privatisation of the state's ability to use coercive funds are being thrown into the budget and can be decided without important fundamental discussions, and whether he is not at all concerned with private transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e338	What the representative refers to is budgetary negotiations taking place in Stortinget, and those negotiations are taking place in Stortinget and not in the newspaper columns. And the result of those negotiations is also going to be known to the Stortinget and the public at the right time. What I want to say is that prisoner transport is a task that will always be under police supervision and control, but we have said in the Sem Declaration, by which the three parties are obliged, that we will differently review tasks from which the police can be released and which others can do, so that we can release the skilled police to ensure the security of the citizens, whether in the street or in investigation. It could happen in different ways, and the government will come back to that in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e345	I don't intend to interfere in the budget debate itself that this might be about, but I think that this issue is so important in principle that I believe it is important that a Minister of Justice has a proper and clear relationship with this issue in the Stortinget. I believe this with prisoner transport in Norway is a task for the state, and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is also clear and clear about it. But I'm a little surprised that he's a little unclear as to what he's putting into clarifying the police's use of resources, whether this is also about the fact that private individuals can take over some of the prisoner transport, because in this area there are so clear fundamental reasons not to let it go to private, that I think the council must be very clear on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e353	I assume that there are no parties in the Stortingen that will put authority tasks on the market, but I assume that all parties in the Stortingen will be committed to ensuring that policemen do what the citizens expect them to do, namely to ensure security in everyday life and in addition to being an active police force that will ensure that cases are investigated. And it says in the Sem statement that we should consider that differently. Let me give you an example. We have e.g. Cops in the police. They're releasing police. We have civil servants in the police. They release the police by passport control. And we have an obligation to let different methods be tried to make sure that the politicians are used where they are going to be most effectively used. We have also said in the Sem Declaration that we have a duty to assess whether it is necessary to introduce an estimate, i.e. a rule-based system for the transport of prisoners, so that here there is a series of alternatives that a Minister of Justice is obliged to provide. And let me sum it up: once we have had such a comprehensive police reform, which, by the way, the Labour Party government should also have compliments for putting pressure on it, we also have a duty for the Norwegian police, who are competent, to demand money back. And citizens are entitled to have an active police force, people who are visible, but who can also conduct investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e362	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e365	I have a question for the Minister of Church and Culture. A number of headlines in the media in recent days have become aware that national taxes have disappeared from the National Gallery. The Riksrevision went through a random selection of 65 works of art, of which two were missing — very old and very valuable. These are works of art financed by taxpayers' money, and when two out of 65 images are missing, one can imagine what the dimensions of missing works of art are of the National Gallery's stock of 43 000. My question to the Minister of Culture will therefore be: What will the Council of State do to avoid this happening in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e374	I've also seen these statements, and I'm worried about the facts in them. What I can do is I can go into dialogue with you. with the National Gallery for the Review of Procedures and Security. I'm about to have a meeting with them, and then this too will be a theme that I'm going to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e379	The management of very large values has been fairly straightforward for a number of years, we can understand. These are the values of the people, these are the treasures of the people. Therefore, I would like to ask the following follow-up questions: Can the Storting now expect the Council of State to come back with a briefing to the Stortinge on the situation at the National Gallery, and especially the National Gallery's storage of valuable art items?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e384	If it is inconceivable that I come back with any information in the committee, I would like to do so once I have received the information I need to pass it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e389	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e392	It is serious when national taxes are squandered in Norway. It is about great values that our community owns, and it is very reassuring to hear that the Council of State will now look into this matter and provide the Storting with information. But we know that there are also a number of other art, culture and museum institutions in Norway. What about these? Will there be an equivalent assessment and review of these institutions, so that they do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e399	Once you've got such a look-up and such a situation as we've seen in the newspapers, it's natural to follow-up with the other institutions as well. I have not received any information that similar things have happened elsewhere, but it is natural that I ask whether it may have been our losses at other museums or other institutions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e406	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e409	I have a question for the minister of the church. The work of increased women's representation in senior positions within the Church is slow. This applies especially to the appointment of prosters. The Norwegian church has 97 pros today. In November, two new men — both men — were appointed. Today it's probably only 5 pst. female prostheses in Norway. But at the same time, the proportion of female theology students is increasing, and according to the escalation plan for church staff there is a great need for more priests. But this is going too slow. My question to the minister is: what is done to increase the proportion of women in senior positions in the Church, especially in relation to motivating women to apply, but also to leading forums such as the Church Meeting and the Bishops?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e419	I like the question. It's an interesting question that also involves me. When the representative Eva M. Nielsen points to the last graduation of two pros, I have to say that there were not many women to take off from among those who sought. For me, it is important to listen to the advice I get from the Church when I am assigned to church employees. I did. I want to remind the representative that the last councillor Giske did before he left, was to go past a very habilant female seeker as a judge in Kristiansand because she was too conservative for him. In any case, I can promise the representative that I will not handle such applications and additions in the same way. Otherwise, I believe, as the representative also says, that there will be more and more women taking theology education. They go into performance settings, and thus they will also be qualified for both prose and bishop settings. I have said that when I get an opportunity – and I have the opportunity to appoint female priests, which I know the Church itself is also concerned about – I am going to use the power I have. But I also have a superior view of listening to the advice that the Church itself gives when it comes to additions. I'm going to keep going on with that. I'm pretty sure that the two values can be combined, so that we increase the proportion of women while listening to the advice we get from the Church's organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e428	I think it was a positive answer and am pleased that the Council of Churches is concerned with the same questions as me. But I have no doubt that the work is still going too late. What can the Council of State do to central bodies such as: Church meeting to increase the female proportion of prosthetics in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e435	I think the only thing I can do is point to today's skew distribution, encourage women to search and also encourage church organs to put women high on their lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e440	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e443	I have to say that I think it was an unusual defensive answer, that you should just encourage women to search or point to the situation. I think we need a more active attitude if we're going to do something about the fact that it's under 10 pst. women in the leading positions in the Church. The problem with the lack of women's representation in leadership positions in the Church is about the future of the Church of the People, about whether we should still have a broad, open and inclusive people's church. One of the measures taken by the government of Stoltenberg in order to obtain a more representative church was a pilot scheme for the appointment of the council at the same date as the election of the majority. It has proved to be very successful. In some places the turnout has increased between 200 and 300 pst. This will also allow leaders in the Church who are more representative of the members of the State Church, both in terms of gender and church politics. My question to the Minister of the Church is: Will the Council of State follow that test system and help us to have a permanent system of congregational elections added on the same day as major elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e452	First of all, to answer the introduction to Giske: at least I don't want to use my theological stand to not appoint women, as Gishe did when he was the Council of State. Secondly, I thought the results we get from the trial plan when it comes to elections to the Soccer Board are very positive. I would also say that when it concerns the proportion of women in the different parishes around the country, it is quite high. We actually have a lot of parish councils where there are only women, and where it's a problem to get men to settle, so the image is very often. This does not always lead to a nominee for performance. I want to review the evaluation of the scheme that the previous government started. I'm positive to the system, and then we'll have to make a decision after we've been properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e464	In the context of the debate on the Government's Declaration of Accession, I stated that the Minister for the Environment could only positively surprise SV. In the climate negotiations in Marrakech, not only did the Minister for the Environment surprise – he impressed. And now the question is whether he's going to continue to impress. At the Conference of the Parties in Bonn in July this year, it was possible to include forests as part of the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. For Norway, this is about 0.4 million. tonnes of carbon per tonne; year or an increase from 1 pst. to 3 pst. more than emissions in 1990. In Marrakech, Russia used these forest figures as a breaker and worked to increase their numbers, which unfortunately they also succeeded. In reality, this meant eroding the Kyoto commitments. As you know, the total commitments are already far below what is necessary to reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. How does the Minister for the Environment respond to the principle that forest could be used as an excuse to increase emissions more than agreed in Kyoto in 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e475	First, I would like to thank Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik for very good words, which of course warms up. Of course, if I manage to live up to those expectations, it remains to be seen, but that the Co-operation Government will continue to pursue an offensive environmental policy as well, it is clear. «To be prepared for all, no one can do», and I am well aware that in the future, reactions from business interests and not least from environmental organisations to what we present are likely to emerge, so there is always a balance between these interests in environmental policy. As for what happened in Marrakech in relation to forest, the Norwegian position was quite clear; we thought it was unreasonable for Russia to increase its CO2 emissions only as a result of the fact that they are now raining differently in terms of forest management – so it's not about replanting or new planting, it's forest management. The alternative to allowing Russia to increase its emissions from 17 million. tonnes to 33 million. Tons might be that they could pull themselves out. All countries considered it such a risk that the G-77 countries, the developing countries, the EU and the others finally accepted this for Russia. The reason why this had to be accepted was that we could not tolerate the Russians who stand for 25 p.m. of emissions, also withdrawn — that is, at the top of the Americans out. When it comes to hollowing out the Kyoto Protocol and the Bonn Agreement and what we have done in Marrakech, I am totally opposed to it. On the contrary, you can question whether we're ambitious enough. I will return to that in the additional message I have notified in March. In the case of forest in general, I think it is important to distinguish between forest management and zinc related to it and replanting and forest planting. So there's two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e486	The previous government made it clear that it would not use this potential in relation to forest, but rather wanted to stick to the Kyoto commitments, namely 1 pst. increase in relation to the reference year 1990. Can the Minister for the Environment confirm that this government wants to stick to this point, and thus go a little further in relation to what is formally committed to follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e493	At that point in the environment, I see no need to change the policy of the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e499	It will be follow-up questions – Synnove Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e502	I noticed that the representative Vaggen Malvik of the party SV was impressed with the Minister of Environmental Protection. But it's not enough to say a lot nice about the environment. The environmental profile of the government will only be seen when we come to the handling of the big, heavy, concrete issues. And to take one example - a national allowance system. The government uses as an argument for its very good environmental policy that it has said that it will present a proposal on the national quota system in March. However, a national allowance system is not worth the paper on if it does not actually have any means of reducing CO2 emissions in Norway. And my question to the Minister for the Environment is: What are the main features of a quota system that will help bring down CO2 emissions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e509	To the representative of Konglevoll, I would first like to say that I agree that environmental policy does not support saying anything fine. I think, as the representative Vaggen Malvik had in mind, that we actually moved some stones in Marrakech from the government. If the Workers' Party does not agree with that, I just get to take note of it, but we broke into substance with the Umbrella Group and moved Norwegian climate policy in a more active direction. That it didn't matter is probably different opinions of. I think it was important to signal a more offensive policy in that area. This is necessary in order for Norway to also be a leading country, and we have the opportunity to do so. With regard to national implementation, the Sem Declaration states that we will take a significant part of national CO2 emissions. We'll follow that up. We then choose a national quota system instead of agreements, as the previous government put it. In the future, it has more to do with it, and it has also been set up by the EU and the rest of the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e519	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The Kyoto Agreement, which is a purely trade agreement with CO2 allowances, assumes that the world will become less dependent on coal, oil and gas, thus reducing the emissions of the greenhouse gases that many politicians and some scientists believe will enhance the natural greenhouse effect and impose harmful climate change. My question to the Council of State is: What economic consequences will this trade agreement have for Norway, primarily in terms of lower demand for oil and gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e528	I noticed that the representative of Korsberg said there were many politicians and some scientists who believe that the climate challenge is a big problem. With regard to this with some scientists, the UN has its own climate panel with hundreds of the most leading climate experts in the world, and their conclusions are getting stronger and stronger compared to the fact that we are facing a major problem related to anthropogenic temperature changes. And if it continues without turning around, it will have disastrous consequences both in terms of increased desertification, forest death, ice melting, etc., so the government's policy here is clear, we think it is necessary to reduce CO2 emissions, both nationally and internationally, in order to do something about the perhaps greatest challenge, along with the poverty problem facing the world community. So there was a question of the financial costs of this. Here I have to say that the greatest costs, both nationally and globally, we will of course get if we don't do anything about the perhaps greatest challenge facing humanity. Then I don't think we can see our descendants in the eyes. Of course, this over time can affect energy prices if fossil fuel use is reduced, but at the same time, I have to add that the Kyoto Protocol currently only has a commitment of 5 pst. reduction for 40-50 developed countries. My concern isn't primarily about what will happen to energy prices in the future, but whether it's at all possible, with the Americans outside, to get results that really count compared to doing something about climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e535	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a rather unclear answer, and no concrete answer was received to the question. Some calculations have been made as to what any ratification of the Kyoto Agreement would have to say to us as an oil nation. If, for example, some of the other countries do not find it appropriate to ratify the agreement, I am thinking above all of Australia, Russia and Japan, will the Council of State continue to ratify the agreement, with the consequences it will have for Norwegian industry, Norwegian income and the distortion of competition to which it is added?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e542	I have great respect for the representative Korsberg, but right at this point we obviously have a slightly different view, to say it carefully. It's just taking inwards. As far as the ratification process is concerned, the Japanese government already warned the day after we agreed in Marrakech that they would now ratify it, and this was one of the countries most skeptical in Marrakech. It's a signal that I'm very fond of. The Russian Environment Minister announced the night before we agreed, that they would ratify, so now it's moving towards a ratification process. It is clear that this government will follow up with a proposition for the spring in which we are in favour of a ratification prior to the Johannesburg meeting. It is important to reduce global CO2 emissions, and if this would lead to reductions in emissions, nothing is better than that. Predicting whether future oil prices – the one who can do it, might not have been sitting here – I think we're going to leave to the market actors. We are politicians and must take responsibility for what we are doing now, also in relation to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e553	There will be follow-up questions – Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e556	I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment describes climate change as one of the most important challenges facing humanity. I have a question related to it, where I record that the Progress Party has a completely different view: does the Minister for the Environment have any strategy for isolating the Progress Party on the most important issue for mankind in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e561	As I said to the representative of Korsberg instead, we have no problem working with the Progress Party on a case-by-case basis. So have previous governments. We are also doing so now through the budgetary negotiations in Stortinget, and even if that goes up and down a little, we have no bad experience of it. With regard to precisely climate issues and environmental policies, the Government will try to maximise its impact through cooperation with the parties that will support the environmental policy we are pursuing. Some parts of the environmental policy will be designed in the context of the budgets, I fully agree with that, and there we will try to keep as much of our budget as possible, which involves a more active environmental policy. We've put in 100 million. kr for environmental purposes in this budget, and we hope that it will not be wiped out through the treatment in Stortinget, I admit that. But I think it is possible to maintain an active environmental policy and still have good cooperation with the Progress Party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e569	The President would like to stress that the question put by the representative Sørensen is close to polishing with another questioner. It shouldn't be like that. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e574	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Most of us are concerned about the increase in violence and threats among the young, especially in the schoolyard. Violence is, of course, a serious problem that is dealt with by several teams and by different bodies. State Council Dørum had a play last month in which he wanted to open up daily police personnel in so-called problem schools. At the same time, we see that some municipalities, such as Oslo, cut her school budget with several million dollars, so teachers have to be dismissed. Does the Dørum State Council agree that teacher recruitment is an important element in the prevention of violence among young people and that cutting school budgets is a poor solution in the prevention of violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e583	The representative referred to a look up in the newspaper. What was the correct wording was the quotations that I was quoted on. I know very well how the police are doing preventive work, among other things. in Oslo. I said explicitly, and I would like to repeat it here, that this is to be done by local assessment in collaboration with the individual school, teachers and supervisor. They know how to find the balance point. The concrete reason was a school that was closed in Oslo South, and there were also roughly simultaneous drastic measures at a school in Røros. I do not want to go into budgets that belong to the municipalities other than to say in general that the police can never do such a job alone. They are totally dependent on parents being able to do their own, teachers being able to do their own, and child protection being able to do their own. That is often the case, as the representative and I probably have experience of, that there are many parents who want the best, but who do not always get it. Then we have to be able to give them the right to say that they need help. Then others who see – the representative was inside the teachers – have to get the chance to see. Perhaps as important as the representative now mentioned about the struggle for school budgets, I think it's not the school's being charged with tasks that make teachers actually have to take over large parts of family policy in the end. I believe that teachers who can remain normal adults, be good attitude and role figures and who have good knowledge and professional background, are actually the most important ones to assist when they see something that is bad and difficult. Unfortunately, you often see things that are bad and difficult in classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e592	I thank you for your answer. Is the Minister of Justice concerned about the development of violence at school, especially in relation to the current cuts in the public sector in many municipalities? – That was my question, and I repeat it. The second is: does the Minister of Justice see any fundamental contradictions in having the police in the schoolyards, and what role, if any, of what borders does he see that the police must have?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e601	As Minister of Justice, of course, I am concerned that there should be best cooperation at local level between those responsible for children's safety: parents, teachers, child protection and the police as well. In fact, extensive work is being done according to the so-called SLT model in a number of municipalities, and it must be an ideal for one to reach as much of the municipalities as possible. I know the situation in Oslo especially, and it's clear that when the police are at a school, they have uniforms. I've been to schools where the police are -- it's often the only human figure who comes into a woman's culture -- and when you see how popular these people are, you just have to take off the hat you don't have on your head and say it's absolutely essential and absolutely essential. Of course, I'm concerned about any violence situation, but here I believe in the good cooperation, and would like to emphasize another matter. I think it's important that all professionals use the exception clause contained in any confidentiality clause to cooperate to protect the weakest party and not protect their own profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e606	It will be follow-up questions – Synnove Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e609	Fortunately, the Council of State replied in its first post that the police cannot do the job alone. But here we are facing a government that is considering privatising prisoner transport to save resources. At the same time, it will send more police into schools, in some schools have daily patrols. For me, it becomes completely incomprehensible to use the argument that policemen are male role figures, so you better work to recruit male teachers, as the Labour Party government did. And to me, it's going to be a pretty scary scenario if it's going to be like privatizing prisoner transport, but having more police in schools. And I'm going to ask the Council of State, what kind of social view does he think it represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e614	Now the representative is based on two assumptions. One premise is the assumption of negotiations taking place in the Grand Duchy. I've answered that in a previous question, and I'm not repeating it. The second premise is that the police are to replace other adult role figures, and based on a rather long life experience in this area and practical experience, among others. In Oslo school, I know that one is completely dependent on the role figures that are there in the first place, for example. teachers, and one is entirely dependent on parents who take responsibility. The Joint Police Association said last night that they depend on parents taking responsibility. When the police get in, they get into a wise prevention work, and I'm actually going to recommend the representative of Konglevoll to be with the police's preventive service in the south of Oslo, then the representative will discover that the police often represent a continuity such as. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as child protection. She will also discover that the police have insight and experience that makes them act with wit and understanding. The Norwegian police do not act in such a way that they rush into a social environment in which they carry out prevention work among young people, which is the theme of this matter in the spontaneous Question Time, they develop it with clever cooperation with other adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e621	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e624	SV is of the opinion that much of the violence we see in the streets and in the schools has its background in domestic violence. My question is what the Dørum Government Council is thinking of doing with the problem we see, which is partly increasing, and where men with violent problems are standing without an offer. For example, ‘Alternative to Violence’ in Oslo was partly financed by the State before, but is no longer. That means that 50 Akershus men are standing without an offer of treatment. I am aware that the Dørum Government Council will participate in a panel on the occasion of the International Day against Violence against Women. I would like him to say something about what the government intends to do in relation to this problem when it comes to putting the police in the schoolyard and thus perhaps stigmatizing these schools further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e629	I want to show again that what is called local cooperation between school, the local environment and the police, is actually going on according to good, sound Norwegian sense based on adult people exercising wit together. I just want to defend the model, and anyone who's been close to it or has spoken to those who know it will also defend it. But I understand the representative's issue of domestic violence. Now I don't want to answer parts of it, because this is addressed in a question that comes in the ordinary Questionnaire, but the representative's concern that I should be aware that there are several people who are affected by it, I take with me, including the call for the situation described in relation to these men.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e635	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e638	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The NRC is Norway’s main cultural institution. Whether this should be the case in the future is a political question. We can choose if we want to invest what is necessary to use the NRK as a tool to preserve and further develop Norwegian culture, preserve Norwegian language and ensure public opinion that contributes to common understanding and cohesion, or we can choose not to. Internationally, the NRK is a tiny pit among media giants. In the developing brutal media world, with very rapid technological changes, an infinite media concentration and a significant degree of harmonisation in the programmes, the NRK is facing difficult challenges. We know that the NRK is struggling financially. A significant cut-off process is known during these days. My question to the Council of State is whether she is prepared to take the major steps necessary to ensure the NRC as an advertisement-free public broadcaster, and, if necessary, to use considerable resources over the state budget to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e647	I broadly agree with the way in which the representative describes the position of the NRK. It is important that we secure the NRK as an advertisement-free public broadcaster, as the representative also says. Now it is not that long since the representative himself was the Council of State and was responsible for this field, and she knows enough that for me to promise great promises to the NRK today while we are engaged in budgetary negotiations in Stortinget, and a while before we're going to start working on the budget for 2003, it's a little too early. I'm going to have a meeting with the NRK in the near future where I'm going to get an update of the situation in the NRK. We have chosen to lead the draft budget from the Labour Party Government when it applies to the NRK, then to the Stortinget, we have not changed it, so that the priorities that the Labour Party did in relation to the NRK, after they had, of course, a careful assessment of the state, we have chosen to continue. Then I'll have to listen to NRK's needs. I also see that they have large cutting plans. I am interested in listening to where they intend to cut, and how they intend to do so, but of course I will not go out today with any great promise in relation to the promises that will come in 2003 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e652	I thank you for your answer. We know that technological developments in the media field are moving fast and fast. It is unclear whether we will be able to secure a licence in the long term. We know that in the future we will have an explosive number of programs in what will be a fusion of TV and the Internet. Also in Norway, we will go in a direction where available channels and portals will be owned by an increasingly narrow circle of international financial interests. The price of setting up own portals and being part of the most single portals could be very high. Therefore, my follow-up question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State be prepared to use state budget funds or, where appropriate, legal regulations to ensure NRK and TV 2 access to and visibility in the new portals that we have to expect to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e661	As I said in my previous answer, I'm going to have one of the first days in close dialogue with the NRK. What I've just heard is that the problem in the NRK is pretty similar to what I felt when we put in government the previous time, but now it's kind of even more important that we act. I can see that. That is why I also look forward to that dialogue, and of course I will follow up on my next budget proposals. But I can't stand here and promise big sums. I think the representative knows I can't, but I can assure the representative that they will have a proper review of their needs. We also see digital developments as a very big economic boost for NRK, which I want to go into, and we want to see what we can do with it. The representative also mentions that we may not be able to secure the license. At the moment, we can do that. But it is obvious that if we have to go away from it – which I hope we do not need during this four-year period at least – we need to look at other ways of financing. For the Government, it is important that the NRK should be free of advertising and be a public broadcast, and then we need to use the means we have to use to ensure that it is still the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e668	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e673	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jørund Leknes to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, this question is moved and answered in front of question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik. Question 2, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5 by Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister for Agriculture has been withdrawn. Question 10, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister for Education and Research, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16 from Bendiks H. Arnesen, representative of the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in front of question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Helga Eggebø. Question 21, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e694	Question 1 has been moved and is to be answered in advance of question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e708	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e714	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Norway has the funds, and it is not a big problem to finance new fighter aircraft by taking the money directly from the oil fund and thus avoiding inflationary measures at home,” said State Council Kristin Krohn Devold in the evening post of 1 November 2001. Is this a position behind the Government, and is it in the case that the Government wishes to create its own foreign budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e723	The assessments in budgetary policy are based on several considerations: Firstly, we must have an overall budgeting, with all items of income and expenditure being given priority to each other.Secondly, economic policy must be adapted to the situation in the economy, where one also takes into account that different items of income and expenditure in the budget have different effects on the economy. In the supplementary proposal put forward by the Government last Friday, we gave a thorough discussion of the budgetary policy guidelines. In my presentation to the Stortinget, I also stressed that the Government is following the new rule of action on budgetary policy. The rule of action says that the country's annual consumption of oil revenues by sector is equal to the expected real return on oil revenues we have saved in the Petroleum Fund. This ensures that budgetary policy is gradually phasing in oil revenues, so that we can meet the strong growth, among other things. in the pension expenditure of the population in the decades to come. The rule of action provides a sound generation balance and contributes to a balanced development of the economy, in which the competitive sector can be maintained to an adequate extent. Thus, the action rule is based on the long-term sound phase-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. At the same time, it ensures that there is greater uncertainty about future oil revenues than about the revenues already earned and set aside in the Petroleum Fund. Within the scope of action resulting from the action rule, it is important to establish budgetary policies in order to strengthen the basis for a growth-driven economy. Relievements at tax and tax levels are important here. In an overall analysis of how the budget affects the economy, it is also of interest that different items of income and expenditure operate differently in the economy. The importance of this is sought through the macroeconomic projections and analyses contained in the budgetary documents. The effect of different government expenditure items on the economy does not change the fact that the rule of action has to be seen as a long-term guideline for the country's overall use of oil revenues. In this context, no government budget expenditure or revenue is special. Using a year more than what the rule of action says, reduces a space for action for the coming years. It is therefore wrong to leave if, after one has given priority to items of income and expenditure within an overall budgetary framework defined by the action rule, one should increase the appropriations to, for example: Defense. What is actually doing is breaking the rule of action. And one will break with the principle of total budgeting. It will also be grounded. Nor has the Minister of Defence addressed this issue, either in the referenced interview in the evening post or elsewhere. I will end by stressing that the Government does not intend to create its own foreign budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e750	I would like to thank you for the answer, which is only clearly understood so that the Minister of Finance does not support the Minister of Defence's statements on making investments in combat aircraft on a budget alongside the ordinary budget, i.e. a foreign budget. It also confirms that the Minister of Finance believes what he meant when he was a representative of the Stortinget, and a large majority of the Finance Committee withdrew from proposals made by the Progress Party on its own foreign budget. I appreciate that clarification and thank you for that. I have the following follow-up questions: Is it so that the government has a special view of this with the repurchase regime? Will the Government withdraw from the repurchase regime to limit the impact on the Norwegian economy of any purchase of fighter aircraft? Is there a rating the government is making?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e759	I would like to stress that the government parties have the view that they had when they put in the Stortinget and agreed to design the rule of action. To the supplementary question, I would say, the government is aiming to promote a case for the Storting where the repurchase arrangements are assessed on a free basis. I think the time has come to assess the experience with the buy-back schemes, given that we now have a new industrial structure. Experience is not just good, and we need foreign purchases in a range of years to come that can mean that we need to re-evaluate parts of the repurchase policy. But this comes the Storting back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e766	I understand that we are given the opportunity to come back to it, but at the same time I have to understand the Minister of Finance's answer so that the Government is aware of the idea of changing it on the repurchase regime, which could have quite serious consequences for parts of Norwegian industry. But we're going to have an opportunity to get closer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e775	‘The NaKuHel Centre on Sem in Asker has shown in practice that it offers many a very good offer with small financial resources. The option for many would be a significantly more expensive treatment option. Centered at Sem has become a model for instances throughout the country. Despite significant voluntary efforts, NaKuHel is struggling financially. Will the Council of State contribute to the continuation and further development of NaKuHel's work, and what role does the Council of State of Culture intend to play in a health prevention context?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e782	In 2000, NIBR evaluated the original ‘Culture Gives Health’ project, which was a joint effort between the Norwegian Cultural Council and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The report «Health and culture. Process evaluation of a national commitment to culture as a health promoter’s instrument’ concluded that culture is an important factor in health promotion, disease prevention and rehabilitation. The Ministry participates in the National Advisory Group on Culture and Health set up in 2000, where the NaKuHel Centre is also represented. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have jointly, and as a pilot project, created a focal point for culture and health in the municipality of Levanger in the spring of 2000. Both departments are involved in financing the activities of the hub, which will last for three years. Two major cultural and health conferences were also held in 2000 and 2001 under the auspices of the Advisory Group and the focal point, and a conference is planned to take place in 2002. The Ministry of Culture considers it very important to be a partner in further work, in particular to disseminate the positive experience of cultural and health work. The NaKuHel Centre at Sem in Asker, or the National Centre for Nature-Cultural Health, aims at ‘to be a centre of globalisation and creativity in nature, culture and health in order to contribute to better health, environment and quality of life and where public institutions, businesses, voluntary organisations, fires and others work together to achieve this common objective’. The Centre benefits from its cultural and cultural activities in connection with the natural resources of the immediate surroundings of Semsvatten, and is thus a valuable supply for local users, but when it applies to day-to-day services for local users, a municipality must seek financial support for the continued operation. The Centre was also evaluated by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research (NIBR), which published the 1999 evaluation report ‘Visions and realities: a difficult balance’. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in consultation with the Ministry of Culture, drew the following conclusion from the evaluation report in a letter to the Centre of 12 May 1999: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has, following an overall assessment, found that it is not appropriate to grant further State aid for the operation of the Centre. Other lashings, such as a stronger and more obvious municipal/communal lashing, could be more timely to offer activities and to disseminate the experience developed.» The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health informed me that this position is still pending. In view of this, it is not natural for the Ministry of Culture to go in with financial support for the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e800	I thank you for the answer, which was positive in one respect, namely in relation to the Council of State saying that she is concerned that the Ministry of Culture should be an active participant in the work on culture and health. In the case of NaKuHel, the answer was not very helpful – unfortunately. In the Center Party, we have more than a general understanding of the concept of not letting the cow die while the grass grows. And NaKuHel is in an acute economic situation because the government grant has been reduced, because there has been a significant amount of government grant, at least some government grant. In these days, a krone roll is carried out to get the company at NaKuHel to go. So there is an urgent need to build a bridge between a difficult now situation and a future situation that can be maritime, as the Council of State says, that one has a larger element of funding either from the municipality or the county. But the problem is that you're in an emergency now. And my question to the Council of State is therefore whether she will be able to consider participating in building a bridge in terms of funding, until new financial instruments are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e811	I gave a negative answer to that, and I have to stand by that. It's probably also preferably within the Ministry of Social Affairs this belongs to home, and not in the Ministry of Culture first and foremost. I know that funds have been disbursed to help the centre in emergency situations before, but there is something else that one has to put in charge of the operation of such a centre where it belongs at home, at the local, municipal or, where appropriate, at the regional level. I imagine it's the municipal level that's right, also based on the user groups that use the NaKuHel Center. I know the center well. I've been there several times. Well done, and that's a good help for the users. But the state cannot rescue all such institutions that should be locally anchored. I would like to remind you that in my answer I also said that from the Ministry of Culture's side we have been on a trial project and put a centre to Levanger, which is to be given responsibility to the national authorities. And so it's up to the municipalities to give the permissions to the local supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e820	The council says that the natural anchoring point is going to be the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm very uncertain about that, because what's exciting about the idea of nature, culture and health is just multidisciplinary cooperation. I hope that the Council of State will not be interpreted to mean that, in her further work in the Ministry of Culture, she will not be concerned with ensuring cross-sectoral cooperation in areas that link culture into the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e825	I want to make it clear that I thought of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health as an entire department. The point for me is to stress that we take our responsibility in relation to the node institution, or the trial project, which is in Levanger. They shall be responsible for the national bit. I said in my last answer that it is important to link culture to both social and health services, because I also believe that it does users well in relation to what they need in different situations. I'm not particularly happy to give this answer, because the center is in my community, and I know it well. But the point for me is that we are forced to add responsibility where responsibility is to be laid for such day care, to those who need it, and who benefit from it. I'm pleased with the voluntary involvement shown by the Kronerulningen, and that Haga's representative points out. But I hope that the municipality can find the means to continue to have this as an open offer to users in the municipality of Asker.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e843	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e850	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In the newscast of TV 2 on 7 November 2001, Swedish police found that pit bulls are exported from Norway to Sweden. These are used in illegal dog fights. It also appeared that such dogfights are likely to also occur in Norway. What measures can be taken to stop both the illegal breeding of pit bulls and the terrible animal plague?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e859	In principle, pit bullying is allowed in Norway today. However, this presupposes that these were born or introduced before the provisional law of 4 July 1991 No. 48 entered into force on 20 July 1991. Pit bull terriers introduced or bred after that time it is illegal to have in Norway. Under this law, there is a general ban on the introduction, keeping or breeding of dangerous dogs. Dangerous dogs are dogs that are particularly aggressive, combative and persevering, and because of these properties are dangerous to humans and animals. By virtue of the law, the Ministry of Agriculture has drawn up a regulation listing which breeds are prohibited, irrespective of the animal’s gliding. Pit bull terriers are mentioned in this list. The law allows the police to take any dog listed in the regulation, including pit bulls, into custody and request it to be killed, regardless of whether it has caused any damage or not. This happens from time to time. Under the Fight Dog Act, police and customs authorities may require the owner to document the breed of the dog if there is doubt that the dog is of a breed prohibited by law or regulation. So it's the owner who has to prove that the dog is not of a forbidden race. I would also like to point out that if the dog has caused damage to humans or animals, the police, irrespective of the breed involved, are entitled to demand the death of the dog both in Section 5 of the Dog Fighting Act and in the second paragraph of Section 354 of the Penal Code. Overall, this shows that the law of combat dogs provides a good basis for action against certain dog breeds, regardless of whether the dog has been harmed or not. If a dog, regardless of its breed, has suffered damage, the police have the right to demand killing under the Dog Fighting Act and/or the Penal Code. Finally, I cannot fail to note that the kind of dog fights that were shown on the TV 2 news last week made a deep impression on me, not least from the point of view of animal protection. It is unacceptable to put on animals such pain and suffering as they experience in a dogfight, for the sake of excitement, entertainment or bets. Such dogfights are a violation of the Animal Protection Act, regardless of the dog breeds involved. I also find such activities very unethical.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e876	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he shares my view that dogfights are animal plagues, but I am not very pleased with the answer. The Swedish police officer who was interviewed on TV 2 gave an exact statement that these were Norwegian dogs, introduced from Norway. And even if the Council of State is not responsible for the police, I could imagine asking him: does the Council of State know what action the Norwegian police have taken to collect information from Sweden, and whether there may be cooperation to stop this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e883	No, I don't know, but I'm absolutely convinced that the police are awake and follow when obviously illegal activities happen. And when it's broadcast in this way, it's clear that the police are recording it. I expect action to be taken as a matter of course. I think it is important to find out that this is prohibited in Norway. If that's the right thing to do, it means that it's a police task. When the audience experiences and sees such dogs, it is important that they alert the police about it. Then the police will be able to contact the dog owner, and then it is, as I said in my reply, the dog owner's duty to prove that there is a legal hundred-year-old sitting with him. It can often prove to be difficult to determine. You might need to be a professional and have a good eye to know if the dogs belong to what are legitimate breeds or ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e892	I agree with the Council of State that it is difficult to separate pit bulls from some other hundred breeds. I also know from the past, after information from dog environments, that there has been training of combat dogs in Norway. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will make contact with the Minister of Justice and get us to cooperate, so that we will intensify this work and get rid of both the type of dogs and not least the type of activity we have seen from Swedish TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e897	I can assure the representative that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Agriculture are happy in such dogs as we would like to stick with, and we will make sure that is the kind of dog team we are going to have. We're also going to talk about how we can make sure that crime is brought to life here in the country. I also think it is a point to find out that the Ministry of Justice is now working on a new dog law, where we can bring together this temporary legislation on dangerous dogs, the Fight Dog Act, into a permanent law on what kind of dog teams we want to have in this country. Work has been conducted at the hearing, and when the process is completed, a legislative proposal will be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e907	I have allowed myself to ask a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Both Stovner and Majorstua police stations in Oslo are doing an important job of prevention youth work in their neighbourhoods. Stations are closed, however, from 0 p.m. 16:00 Saturday to Monday morning. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure police availability even on weekends?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e916	The police department reports that the police chief in Oslo is constantly making an ongoing assessment of how best to provide public service. The closure of police stations about the networks and weekends has been done to ensure that resources are available where the audience is and not tied up inside. The system being practised means that the police can have more patrols in operational service and thus also respond more quickly when necessary. For all kinds of public enquiries, the Centre Police Station is open 24 hours a week. The police director agrees with the police chief that the solution chosen is the one that best meets the needs of the population based on the resources available. For example: to ensure that the prevention of youth work is maintained at all times, the Stovner Police Station has two police posts, one on the Furoset and one on the Romsås. One of these police posts is always manned on Saturdays from 5 p.m. 18 to Sunday at 6 p.m. 02, as well as Sundays from 2 p.m. 16 to 24. The police posts are subject to preventative sections at the Stovner Police Station and are staffed by two police officers from there. For Majorstua Police Station, a separate youth patrol has been set up, manned by police officers from the preventive section. This patrol is on duty every Saturday from 9 p.m. 16 to 24. In this way, the Oslo police have arranged for the prevention of youth work to be carried out in a good way even on weekends. It is considered very positive and important to be where the youth is, and Oslo police districts have arranged for this by patrolling current neighbourhoods on weekends by police officers in preventive sections of Stovner and Majorstua police stations. The public can always receive help and guidance from the 24-hour police guard at the Central Police Station. All telephone enquiries are answered by the operating centre, which controls the patrols as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e931	I thank you for a thorough and informative response on both availability and patrolling by the police in Oslo in those areas. A few years ago, I was working on a programme on young people's growing-up conditions in Oslo and got a thorough introduction to the work done by the Stovner Police Station in the field of prevention youth measures, including for the so-called storks, and not least in cooperation with other agencies in this area. I've also gone night off with the police at Majorstua and I know they're doing a great job. Although it is ready, although it is patrolling and although there are some other open places, I know that the police organization would like to have the two stations open also on Saturday afternoon and Sunday. I would like to ask the Council of State if he can take an initiative to see if it is possible to reorganize it so that it is not least possible to keep the Stovner Police Station open during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e942	Both the representative and I share excellent experiences with the police in Oslo. It is also apparent from my answer that what is happening during both Stovner Police Station and Majorstua Police Station, is satisfying to be more open than being closed on weekends, especially to meet young people. With regard to the situation in the police district, it is the police district that assesses it together with the Police Directorate. That's the way it is after we've got this new governance system. Of course, I'm going to include all the recordings that I'm familiar with, in the governance dialogue we have, but I can't give out any promises. But to discuss what creates an active police force in the best possible way, i.e. The combination of a police force that is visible out there and at the same time active inside, so that it can follow up, I'll take that with me, also in the case of the Oslo police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e949	I thank you once again for both the goodwill and what I see as stretching out a hand to get further proximity in the environments with regard to the police in Oslo, especially at Stovner and at Majorstua. I think it's right to say that an open police station also feels safe in the community, and I know, among other things. from the people of Stovner that if the police station had been open also Saturday afternoon, Sunday morning and afternoon, it would feel considerably safer. The police station is just a stone's throw from both the T-Bahn station and the Stovner Center, as the Council of State is sure to know. I would therefore just encourage the Council of State to take these things back. I am pleased with what he said about the availability that is outside the closed police stations, but will nevertheless appeal to the Council of State to try to open the two stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e956	To be precise, I'm not now going to override either the Police Directorate or the Oslo Police District, but I'm taking the views with me. The representative is certainly right that many people experience it just as the representative makes it. On the other hand, according to the police directorate's experience, perhaps not so many people will turn around at night. There are many people who want to know that they are on the phone and that a patrol can be available. And then it's also a government council's duty to make sure that you get the best use of this in the budget framework you have, because what you call an active police force. In the budget we now have, we have continued the budgetary framework underpinned by the Stoltenberg Government. If it gives further room for action, that's something I always bring with me in a governance dialogue with both the Police Directorate and, therefore, with the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e968	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Justice Dørum: ‘Many women who have broken out of violent life experience that men continue to practice violence and pose threats. The Criminal Procedures Act has a rule on a restraining order for the perpetrator. However, in many cases this is understood in such a way that it does not permit a restraining order in its own home. The Stoltenberg government proposed a new clarification in the law that allows for the imposition of a visitor ban in their own home. Will the Council of State follow up this legislative proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e977	It is of particular importance for human safety that they have the right to live without fear or experience of violence. I see it as a very important task to strengthen especially women's protection against violence. The situation following a break in life requires special attention in this respect. As the representative Gjul says in the question, the Ministry of Justice of the last government, on 15 October 2001, sent a proposal to amend Section 222a of the Criminal Procedures Act on a visitation ban. In the consultation note, this includes, inter alia, the following: proposed a clear authorisation to impose a visit ban in their own home. The deadline for delivering opinions was set at 15 January 2002. The purpose of the consultation proposal is to prevent violence against women and improve the situation of victims of violence. I agree with this, also in the reinforced restraining order, but will, of course, consider the hearing opinions that come in. That being said, I would just like briefly to state that the enforcement of a restraining order is a police task. With the new police districts in place, it is my wish that in each district there is at least one person with acute competence in this area, just to meet these problems in a way that is serious in the situation, for the people who are under attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e986	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that he wants to follow up this bill that was presented by the Stoltenberg government. I have a lot of understanding that you have to wait until the consultation round is over before taking a final position, but I feel this answer is very positive. The problem is not that today’s legislation does not allow a restraining order in your own home. The problem is that it is perceived differently in many cases. Therefore, it is important that we clarify the legislation, so that we do not experience any more cases like the ones we have had in recent times, where the police do not choose to use this home. I am also pleased that the Council of State mentions this with regular police contacts that can address these issues to violent women, that he believes that there is a need for a change of attitude in the police on issues of women and violence, and that there is also a need to raise awareness of this. I would like to ask the Council of State whether, in that context, he also wants to take an initiative to develop criteria for what should be done to women at risk in the handling of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e997	When I said that there should be one person with acute competence, it was because of course he also has to make sure that there is a general competence in the various parts of the police. That's also what the representative says, that there's actually going to be a staff here. There is a staff from the Dørum State Council to the Harlem State Council, where it is in fact a common line that we must protect the victim and that we must protect against the abuses described here. That's why I chose to be so clear in my answer. With regard to how best to strengthen and build up police competence in this area, there is something I want to include in the governance dialogue that the Department has with the Police Directorate. But I have chosen to mark it with at least one person with acute competence in each police district, to stress that this is something that should be obligatory. Because there is no doubt that those who are exposed to these abuses often feel that they have to endure that they are not always met in the best possible way. We know from open debates in our society that the police have recognised that here they have more to learn, and I am prepared to contribute to that process through the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1004	I thank you again for a very good response from the Council of State. I am very pleased that he is so clear and clear on these questions, and that he will follow up. We know that this is a big social problem. We know that since 1995, 50 women have been killed by their partners, that every day there are hundreds of thousands of women who are subjected to violence from their cohabitants, and that the normal thing is that most women who are subjected to violence move out of their own homes. It's a very unfortunate situation that it's actually the woman who's moving out, instead of the man who's practicing violence. But then there's also another side to this problem. It is that when the man can now get into a situation where he has to move from his own home, and in a way he loses both his family and his home, there is also a danger that he will practice further violence. My challenge to the Council of State is: Has he thought about how to follow up these rapists? How can we prevent them from committing further violence? And how is it to prevent men from committing any kind of violence against their partners at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1013	These include: the views that the representative is now promoting, which means that I will await the hearing opinions, because when you choose to go to work as drastic as to increase a restraining order, it is of course that it also has other aspects. It's to have an overview of those pages and be able to act as rational as possible in relation to it, that I said I would await the hearing opinions and take with me all the recordings that are coming. But in terms of the basic attitude itself, that's to set a value limit here, I already marked it in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1023	Then we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1032	This question, from the representative of Jørund Leknes to the Prime Minister, will be raised by the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik. The question will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1035	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘When the current Prime Minister in the election campaign was asked about government subsidisation of the gas pipeline to the conventional gas power plant at Forest, he was clear that such support would not be provided. Is this something that the Prime Minister still insists on, or is the Government going to give in to the demand of Industrikraft Mid-Norway DA for State co-financing of the pipeline to Forest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1044	The position of the cooperative body on State participation in the financing of gas pipelines intended to supply conventional gas power stations with gas is perfectly clear. In the Sem Declaration, the Government's position is clear, and is identical to that previously expressed by the Prime Minister. The Sem Declaration states: « Any Member State's participation in financing/ownership of pipelines shall be subject to the condition that it does not subsidise gas transport to conventional gas power stations. [[Scoffs]] The country’s contribution, if any, shall be limited to the additional costs related to other purposes.’;» This means that the Government will be able to look at aid for branches in Trondheimsfjorden and additional investment in increased capacity in the pipeline that can benefit from other purposes. On the other hand, there is no State aid for gas pipelines supplying a conventional gas power plant. Cooperation management will make more use of natural gas for domestic valuation. Natural gas can be used in an environmentally friendly way both as an energy source, as raw material in industry and in the transport sector. To achieve this, there is a need to invest in the national distribution and use of natural gas. During an introductory and development phase, public support will be required for the construction of infrastructure for the environmentally friendly use of natural gas. The government will also stress that this support must be within the framework of our international environmental commitments. The purpose of the co-operation administration is to provide a global strategy for the use of natural gas at the end of the spring 2002 season.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1060	I would first like to thank you for your answer. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy to clarify a little more what he means by «the government will be able to look at support for decommissioning in Trondheimsfjorden and additional investment in increased capacity in the pipe that can benefit other purposes.» Where does the Minister believe that the pipeline of the conventional gas power plant, which the Government does not want to support, starts? Which part of the pipeline – exactly – is what you can't support? And what do you put in this with increased capacity? Can the minister say what this means?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1067	As the representative is sure to know, Stortinget has already taken a decision on the construction of three gas power plants using today's best available technology. For the Government, this is not satisfactory in relation to the environmental obligations we have entered into, but we have agreed that what the Storting has made of decisions concerning these three gas power stations will be carried out in line with the Storting assumptions. That means that there is a commercial decision ahead of the possible construction of a gas power plant in Forest. However, the government will not contribute to the co-financing of such a gas power line to supply such a conventional gas power plant only. However, there are interesting plans for decommissioning in Trondheimsfjorden, for example. industry, to replace fuels in taxis and buses, where, for example: can replace diesel with the corresponding use of natural gas. These are interesting purposes for which the Government wants to stimulate, and for which it is therefore committed to co-financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1076	I would like to reiterate my call to the Minister to be a little more precise in relation to how one imagines delimiting the part of the supply pipeline that is going to go to the gas power plant – a conventional gas power plant – and that part of the Council of State is going to go for other purposes, as it is talking about a dimensioning of the gas pipeline that is planned for the Tent Goods and into the Forest, into Trondheimsfjorden. In relation to the previous decisions of the Stortingen, no decision has been taken on the financial aspect of it, and there is no doubt that the decision of the Stortingen will thus have an impact on investment decisions that Industrikraft Mid-Norway may eventually make. That is why I would like to reiterate the call for a better clarification of what the Minister thinks can contribute to increased capacity in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1083	I do not think it is necessary for the representative to contribute to creating confusion about what is the actual situation. I assume that the representative and the Minister of Oil and Energy are in complete agreement on the views of conventional gas power plants, on the problems this creates. What's the question here is not the technical, but the financial. The Government does not wish to contribute to a co-financing that contributes to the construction of the gas power plants currently travelling with conventional technology. On the other hand, the Government wishes to contribute to the financing of other types of environmentally friendly measures, both industrially and in relation to replacing more polluting energy use with natural gas. So there are not questions about technological solutions, but about financial participation in such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1090	We're going to go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1097	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘For oil extraction, large quantities of drilling water containing alkylated phenols, having a hormonal effect on the fish are released. This can lead to major problems with reproduction. It's been out 300 million in the last 30 years. tonnes and emissions only increase. What will the Council of State do to deal with this problem, and is it a thought to impose a stop to production in cases where the reinjection of drilling water to the seabed cannot be carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1106	Alkylated phenols are organic compounds naturally found in the reservoir and are supplied with the water produced from the well. The amount of water produced depends on the level of activity and the maturity of the fields. With an increasing proportion of older oilfields on Norwegian soil, the amount of water produced is expected to increase in the coming years. At the same time, technological developments in recent years have suggested that we have more opportunities than before to deal with this produced water, and therefore also alkylated phenols. I think here, among other things. on further reinjection and further pre-sea discharge clean-up. Companies are now testing promising clean-up technologies to prevent emissions of water produced. I attach great importance to implementing measures that can reduce environmental problems related to the oil industry on the base. However, I cannot see that the imposition of a stoppage of production is a particularly topical instrument. The marine research institute has carried out laboratory tests on the hormonal effects of alkylphenol on cod. Alkylphenols are suspected to have the same effect as the female sex hormone estrogen and may contribute to the effects of fish reproduction and development. It is now important to determine to what extent the tests are representative of the real exposure around the installations on the socket. We still know too little about the possible effects of alkylated phenols on the ability of the fish to reproduce. In order to meet the challenge of emissions of alkylated phenols, it is important to strengthen knowledge of the potential effects of these compounds. Substantial research is already under way in this area. At the same time, there seems to be a strong consensus that in this field, the need for knowledge remains high. The government wants to contribute to increased knowledge in general about long-term impacts from emissions at sea. An overview of knowledge status, research needs and skills needs has already been developed in this area. There also seems to be broad consensus between the different professional environments and industry, even though the need for increased knowledge is greatest, and I support the assessments that have been made so far. Against this background, together with other departments and industry concerned, I will take the initiative as soon as possible in a separate research programme on the long-term impact of emissions to sea from the petroleum sector. The government’s objective is to ensure a framework for Norwegian petroleum activities in a sustainable perspective. Instruments based on the principle of driving were also important in this context. Companies on Norwegian base must, among other things,: apply for an emission permit from SFT in order to be able to release oil and chemicals at sea. These emission permits have been granted under the provisions of the pollution law, and the subject matter addressed by the query is, of course, included in that assessment. In addition, in the context of the emissions permit, rights holders on Norwegian continental shelf are required to carry out regular monitoring of the marine environment. The purpose of monitoring is to have an overview and proper control of the impact of offshore activities on the environment and living marine resources. The zero-emission philosophy is another important tool for limiting environmentally harmful emissions to the sea from the production of oil and gas, i.e. a continuous reduction of environmentally harmful emissions towards a practical zero level. The Government considers it important to achieve the objective of a practical zero emission level for environmentally harmful substances at sea by 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1125	I thank you for a full but not adequate answer. It is a fact that in 2003 more production water is produced than oil on Norwegian soil. In the case of oil companies from the Marine Research Institute when it was to begin research into this, the marine scientists were exposed to heat and were accused of animal plague when they were to expose cod to testing for alkylated phenols. It's a secret of what kind of chemicals are used to treat drilling water. It doesn't have the Council of States' overview of it, because it's secret. Trust that the companies themselves will take this problem seriously is not present for my part. Governments spend a lot of time researching this problem and the need for it. The Marine Research Institute has been working on this. It is a heavy and laborious work that needs to be done. We have a reduction in fish stocks in the North Sea, especially in the case of cod, which is justified by overfishing. But 300 million. tonnes of harmful water discharged over these 30 years may also have had an impact on the reduction of North Sea fish stocks. Does the Council of State see that problem? And is he willing to fund a research position at the Marine Research Institute, which is working on researching these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1136	I have no problem sharing the concern of the representative Bastisen relative to the possible impact of alkylated phenols on fertility in the case of cod and other fish species. It is precisely to find out that the Ministry of Oil and Energy, together with other departments concerned, is taking an active initiative. We know something about the effect, but we don't know enough about the effect on the fish around the North Sea installations. As I mentioned in my answer, it is that several of the oil fields get older, which means that we get larger quantities of water produced and thus an increasing problem compared to the question that the representative Bastesen raises. With regard to the draft budget by the Cooperation Government, I am sure that the representative Mr Bastisen has noticed that I have strengthened my budget in areas that are just going to investigate the impact of petroleum activity on Norwegian soil compared to the environment. This also includes the problems that Mr. The sauna's picking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1145	I thank you for your answer. I have to go into another small matter, which may be under the Ministry of the Environment, but also under the Ministry of Oil and Energy, because I have a copy of a letter here that has been sent to the Oil Directorate. It goes on oil protection in the fields, after an additional towing vessel has been demobilized from all fields and replaced by a small motorboat of 24 feet – I have had several rounds of this in Stortinget with the Environment Minister of the previous Bondevik government. There is one boat with 12000 hp and another with 160 hp to draw on the oil lens. I will quote what Statoil writes – I feel it in writing – after I have been working since 1999 to get on board a boat and participate in a realistic exercise at sea. Statoil writes, with a copy to the Oil Directorate: ‘In countries there is more guarantee that the exercise can be carried out. Oil protection equipment has wave height limitations. There are better opportunities for finding satisfactory sea and weather conditions at land in and with the exercise can be carried out in fjords or bays that provide shelter for extreme weather.’ Copy of this letter is in the Directorate of the Council of State. Has he intended to investigate the matter and perhaps do something about oil protection, as in my view, and I also believe in the President's view, must be completely absent from Norwegian oil fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1159	It is possible that the representative Bastesen goes quite far beyond the rules and the framework of the Questionnaire, because it is a whole new theme he is now introducing. However, I will reply more generally and say that the responsibility for the responsible conduct of the petroleum industry in relation to environmental regulations and in relation to fisheries interests is not only that of the Minister for the Environment – it is also mine. I take full responsibility for this, and I actually want to run a business that also takes into account other important social interests, including. the fishing interests. I can assure the Bastisen that here I have a strong, fierce and enthusiastic commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1174	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1180	I have the following questions for our Minister for Fisheries: ‘The coastal population in Eastfold is increasing at risk, while fishing resources are greatly reduced. The fourth year's census showed that there were 500 animals in the Heia area in addition to 2,200 animals in the Koster area. According to the Coast Guard of the Directorate of Fisheries, the cell population has increased further by 350 animals. The quota quota in the county of 2001 for 18 animals is met. Will the Council of State support a significant increase in the fishing quota in Eastfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1189	I would first like to stress that the purpose of the management of seals on the coast is to ensure viable cell populations. Within this framework, cell populations can be taxed as a renewable resource and stocks are regulated according to ecological and social considerations. Coastal fishing quotas are determined on the basis of scientific recommendations. In recent years, researchers have recommended annual allowances for coastlines based mainly on a 5 pst off-take. of the countable part of the individual populations. Quota fixing has partly met strong resistance from fishermen and hunters, since the perception has been that the quotas have been set too low in relation to the actual stock of seals. However, the fishing authorities have increased their quotas, bearing in mind that the stock of seals poses social problems in relation to fishing and aquaculture activities. The increase has been partially made as a general increase of 20 pst. in all regions, as was done in 1999, and as a special recommendation of 30 p.m. in areas where specific problems can be documented in relation to fisheries and aquaculture, as was done in 2000. The allowances for the current year were determined in accordance with the same pattern. It was decided to increase the quota by 30 pst. for stone copper also in Eastfold, so that the quota for 2001 was 18 animals. The quota proposal for Eastfold for fisheries research in 2002 is based on the population figures of August 2000, with the highest estimate of 320 animals. In addition, 160 animals were observed just above the borders of Sweden, which is likely to form part of a relatively large population on the Swedish side, estimated to be at least 2,650 stone copper. This population may vary considerably in number material. However, the authorities base their stock estimates on the Norwegian side in setting the quota. Fisheries research considers it appropriate to increase the tax burden on stone copper up to 30 pst. beyond 5 pst. of the stock estimate, as a temporary scheme until new stock estimates are available. These recommendations give a quota for 2002 of between 16 and 21 animals in Eastfold. As regards the quotas for 2002, these will be determined by the Directorate of Fisheries based on the recommendations of the researchers. The Fisheries Directorate will determine the coastal quotas following a meeting of the Maritime Animal Council. The Council of marine mammals is a consultative body on matters relating to the participation in and regulation of catches of marine mammals and advises the fisheries authorities on, inter alia, matters relating to: next year's coastal regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1206	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On a number of occasions, Councils have pointed out that it is important to capture a higher percentage of the coastline, and on a national basis only half of the quota is caught. In Eastfold, all animals, 18 animals for the current year, are caught. Despite the fact that the quota is set on a scientific basis, the cell stock is constantly increasing. The supervisor in Eastfold has assessed that there is an increase of 350 seals, and sometimes there are black seas in Oslofjord, at least on the Eastfold side of Oslofjord. Would it not now be appropriate to increase the quota and not build on percentages? When you have a very small number of animals, that is, 18 animals, 20, 30, and 5 pst. This has been tried for some years, yet the stock of cells is increasing significantly. Both the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Regional Director believe that a much higher number of animals, for example: 50, would be justifiable. Now, if we're not going to go into it a little bit, you can think about it again next year and see if this has gone beyond the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1213	I understand the concern of the representative Hedstrøm. I stress that the stock estimates on the Norwegian side must be seen in the context of the population that is also on the Swedish side, and this may give rise to variations in the figures. But from my point of view, it is important that we look at the management of marine mammals as part of an integrated ecosystem management. Commercial capture of a renewable food resource is important, but it is also crucial that we maintain viable cell populations, and that we take an off-take based on scientific recommendations. As the figures are available per year. So today, before the Marine Animal Council has met, the population estimate is 320 animals. 5 pst. withdrawals, in line with practice, give rise to 16 animals. If we were to increase in Eastfold by 20 pst, that would give 19 animals. If you subtract it to 30 pst, which has been practice until now, we're up to 21 animals. I don't intend to increase the figure this year in addition to the estimates and recommendations that come from the researchers. I understand that this is a problem that you are also concerned about in Eastfold, but I stress that it is important that the purpose of management is to maintain viable cell populations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1222	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. In Eastfold, this catch works perfectly well. You have catch layers, and early in the year, you would have taken the microscopic amount of sales, that is, 18 animals. Earlier, a few years ago, the quotas were much larger, and then there was a certain extra income in this too by supplying meat to some Oslo restaurants. Does the Council not believe that the economic argument must also be given some meaning? Then you have to increase the quotas by something more than a couple-three animals, as this is carefully suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1229	It is true that in recent years, the coast off-take has been less than 50 pst. That's what I'm worried about, because it's not a good enough management of the marine mammals in an ecosystem. In Eastfold, the quota is taken, and there is a relatively small quota in the number of animals, but, once again, it is in line with the recommendations and guidelines laid down nationally. The economic argument is important, that we get the best possible economy out of the renewable resources we have, but the most important thing is to preserve and secure viable cell populations. And you can't go on chords with it to trigger the value creation potential that might lie in the marine mammals. But I'm always open to having an alert eye for whether our estimates are good enough, whether they are Eastfold or in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1242	‘In the last few years, cod quotas have played a significant role in the recommendations of researchers. At the same time, negotiations in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission are taking place without public interest, contrary to the international agreements to which Norway has acceded, and contrary to the wish of other Norwegian environmental organisations and 50 rapporteurs. [[Official Journal of the European Communities, 5 November 2001]] Will the Council of State in the future make the Norwegian negotiating position in the Norwegian-Russian quota negotiations known in advance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1249	The task of negotiating joint stocks in the Barents Sea with Russia has been assigned to the Ministry of Fisheries. The negotiating delegation shall be appointed on the basis of the appropriateness and soundness of the department's assessment. This assessment also includes compliance with any government and wholesale policy, as well as international obligations in general international law by which Norway is bound and/or obligations in conventions signed by Norway. Today, the Norwegian delegation consists of representatives from the Norwegian fishing industry and Norwegian authorities, including representatives from the Marine Research Institute and Fisheries Research. The appointment of the negotiating delegation by the Ministry of Fisheries is based mainly on representation from industry and management, legitimacy in industry, negotiation tactical considerations and the need for the delegation to have a manageable size. Fisheries authorities manage national resources responsible for maintaining and further developing the fishing industry along the entire Norwegian coast. No geographical representation has been provided through municipalities or county municipalities, but a functional representation through business organisations. The trade organisations participating in the preparatory meeting and in the delegation during the quota negotiations themselves are the Norwegian Fisheries Association, the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture. In addition, the Ministry of Environment also meets. The Ministry of Fisheries is aware of the international obligations relating to transparency and participation in different decision-making processes, and the Ministry of Fisheries is of the opinion that the composition of the delegation and the preparation of the negotiations are the responsibility of the United Nations Agreement on Transparency in 1995. Negotiations with Russia on the management of stocks in the Barents Sea should take great account. Among the most important are the consideration of sustainable management, and also the ability to achieve as far as possible the objectives set out in the principles of a leading convergence of goods, as well as the best interests of Norway within the current fisheries policy objectives. Negotiations on fisheries resources are about giving and taking to reach an agreement. In my opinion, publishing the Norwegian negotiating strategy in advance will lead to a worse position for Norway in the negotiations, with the result that Norwegian interests will be harmed, both in the short term and in the long term. To put it simple, you don't tell me what cards you have on your hand until the game starts. In conclusion, I would like to sum up by saying that as long as the composition of the delegation reflects the stakeholders, the size of the delegation is manageable and the composition of the delegation is not contrary to international obligations, it is not appropriate to make the negotiating positions known in advance of quota negotiations. Since the negotiations are often repetitive exercises, it is also not appropriate to publish the mandates after the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1268	I thank you for your answer. I must admit that was the answer I had expected, although that was not the answer I wanted. But I get to believe that the value of publicity around and democratic governance of fisheries management is currently different from that of the Council of State and me. Now the government actually answered my supplementary question, so I get to go on to the next additional question: Will the government take seriously the signals that come from nutritionists, municipalities, spokesmen, county councils, environmental organisations and not least opposition politicians, and evaluate a more open fisheries management, where the focus is on sustainability, and to be sure that we speak the same language, including on future foresight, not just immediate foresight? Will the Council of State consider more openness in the industry, or does it consider this to be entirely satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1275	It is nice that the Council of State can be in the forefront and answer questions that have not been asked. Nor is it the case that you have to ask additional questions, but at least I will try to answer what is now given, and then we will see if there is a need for another question. I take seriously any requests from industry and from operators along the coast, even when they come from coastal rapporteurs and others, but on my side it is important that we carry out the negotiations – with the Russians in this case – in a way that ensures that Norwegian interests are safeguarded in the best possible way. I then feel convinced that a greater degree of transparency and knowledge about Norwegian mandates and negotiating positions will not benefit the Norwegian fishing industry, nor will it benefit the coastal settlement. Therefore, I do not see that Norwegian interests are served that we should have a greater degree of transparency in the sense that mandates and positions should be made known in advance or afterwards. Because this will also mean that our honourable counterparty will be familiar with the positions for the next few years’ negotiations – because these are often repetitive exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1282	I must admit that the answer concerns me. The research staff of the year has revealed that there is little cod to talk about. On October 20, the magazine Vesterålen referred to the fact that not only has the cod owl hidden, it is simply gone. When the council then said to the newspaper Nordlys yesterday that the long-term prospects are somewhat unclear, he did not take too hard into it. State councils are not even willing to take the consequences of such a prudent statement, on the contrary. Next year's cod quota is more than double that recommended by the researchers. I record the answer from the government councils in relation to openness in government. I have to say it worries me. There's been a pretty strong signal coming from the coast, including from nutritionists, that you want a change of scenery. There is a signal that I take seriously, and that I will continue to challenge the Council of State further.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1287	I understand the concern, but perhaps the representative should also be concerned if our honourable counterparty should be familiar with all the positions before we go into negotiations, and if they should be familiar with the mandates and positions that we have in long-term negotiations. It would, in my opinion, be more damaging to the Norwegian fishing industry than the lack of total transparency that is requested. On the basis of an overall assessment, I am on a safe basis in the sense that the practice that has been conducted throughout all times in negotiations with the Russians will be continued. But I have a awake eye and ear for what's coming. When questions are raised in relation to the agreement on allowances for 2002, they are slightly outside the original question raised. But I just underline that the set quota gives room for both the total population and the broodstock to grow. Based on that, I believe the agreement is sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1297	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State of my own country on his debut here in Stortinget's Question Time today. Then we'll see if there's any reason to be satisfied with the Council's answers. I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In addition, about 7 000 of the country’s part-time fires are lacking in primary education. Lack of education among part-time firefighters in the country has been a continuing problem. The result is a weakening of fire preparedness in the municipalities of the country. The plans for the provision of training for both firefighters and part-time firefighters have been developed. However, the remaining problem seems to be lack of money to implement the plans designed to increase the competence of the country's firefighters. Will the Council of State give an explanation of this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1308	Let me first say that I share Andersen's concern about the lack of training of part-time firefighters. Part-time staff are an important part of the overall fire preparedness, and it is of great importance both that there is a training offer for this group and that the offer is actually being used. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that you have a proper fire service, and in this respect it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the personnel have the necessary education and training. The State must ensure that the municipalities fulfil these tasks and, in addition, it is natural for the State to ensure that there is a full education offer. In 1996, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, the KUF, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which was then the general authority for fire and explosion protection, appointed a working group to provide training for and funding part-time personnel. On the basis of the work group’s proposals, Norway’s Fire School has been through a construction phase and cooperation has been established with local safety and training centres to implement the practical part of the training. In addition, extensive preparations have been made for the implementation of a decentralised part-time training offer. At present, pilot projects are being carried out in two regions, the Østerdalen and the Vesterålen, to test out the scheme before starting up on a full scale. The responsibility for the Norwegian Fire School will be transferred from 1 January 2002 to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. In connection with the transfer, we will continue the work that has been done on decentralised part-time training, and in this connection we will also focus on providing municipalities with as cheap a quote as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1319	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My concern in this case is to try to ensure that we receive training from both full-time and part-time firefighters who function and who are implemented according to the plans that have been developed. This is the second time that I, as a case rapporteur for this type of matter at Stortinget, feel that it is necessary to address this matter. I therefore assume that the responsible State Council will take care of this, so that we can be sure that this part-time reform goes its way without being concerned with uncertainty about the financing of the educational offer that we are talking about here. So it's approx. Eight million. the State which is lacking in order for the Fire School in Tjeldsund to implement this reform, and it is unacceptable that the money is not in place above the budget. 7.9 million. kr is what's going to happen. If not, there is a danger that the whole reform will actually be iced up, according to the information I hold. The problem is, in fact, a lack of money for Fire School in order to implement the plans, which are comprehensive, and with which it has been working for a long and thorough time. It would be a pity if a few million kroner were to stop this important measure that is now on the stairs and to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1326	Let me repeat the main features of what I said, and clarify the economic aspects of it. What I'm saying very clearly is that we must not deviate from the basic division of tasks that we have between the state and the municipality. It is a municipal responsibility to ensure that both full-time and part-time staff have the necessary training. What is our central responsibility is to make sure that the offers are available. The offers are now in place. We'll make sure they're as cheap for the municipalities as possible. To the extent that the municipalities had to have difficulties in obtaining funds to provide that training, there is a general question relating to the income framework of the municipalities. In that case, it is a question that it is natural for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to consider. What is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration is to ensure that there is a good offer that the municipalities can make use of, and I believe that we now have in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1331	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to the information I have received in this case regarding the Fire School budget, the State has also committed itself to participate in the financing. In the case of the training provision itself, which has been decentralised to this extent, it is also a week of practice and that bit costs 5.4 million. kr. That's what the state has committed itself to pay, and that's part of the 7.9 million. kr as requested, which is missing from the transfers to the Fire School in Tjeldsund. That's right, what the Council of State says, is that it's the responsibility of the municipality. But the state has assumed a partial responsibility, and this is possible, among other things. to finance the part of the Fire School. There's still 7.9 million missing. kr. If that money does not come, we risk this important part-time reform being put on ice. The Council of State should take a closer look in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1340	Let me repeat once again that the state's responsibility here is to ensure that there is a full education offer. We're going to make sure that's where the day the municipalities want to send people to this offer, and the day the municipalities are willing to cover the costs that naturally belong in the municipal sector in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1350	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘23. On October 2001, the Competition Authority briefed the airlines SAS and Braathens that they did not find the basis for intervening against SAS acquisition of Braathens and that the Competition Authority ‘at this stage’ would not intervene in bonus programmes, wholesale agreements and travel agency agreements. What reasons does the Ministry of Labour and Administration have for the work of the Competition Authority to deal with these issues, and why such urgency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1359	We are in a hurry on the issue of the competitive framework conditions for aviation because the matter is urgent. It is urgent both for the benefit of air passengers and for the sake of air carriers. For passengers, it is urgent that the prices of air travel should actually decrease if the Storting adopts the Government's proposal to remove the air passenger charge. Recent developments have led to SAS having a very strong position in the Norwegian market. That's what SAS takes over Braathens or one. In such a situation, it has not been clearly stated that lower charges will provide lower prices for passengers. If we are to be sure that lower charges actually offer lower prices, airlines need to have a framework that does not encourage them to exploit market power, and framework conditions that stimulate entry. Therefore, in a letter dated 2 November, I asked the Competition Authority to immediately initiate a thorough review of all agreements and arrangements that might act as anti-establishment and anti-competitive in the aviation market. I am pleased that last Friday, the Competition Authority notified the Norwegian airlines that it would consider interference with the bonus schemes. Although many passengers will initially experience it as a loss if the bonus schemes disappear, there is no doubt in my view that passengers are better served with competition and low prices than with bonus programmes that bind them to one company. I am aware, of course, that the crisis in international aviation following the terrorist attacks of 11 September has created major financial problems for many airlines, and that these measures that I have asked the Competition Authority to assess can be seen as compromising the burden. However, in the difficult transitions facing companies, it must be important that companies know what competitive conditions they have to deal with in the future. Waiting to clarify the framework conditions would create additional and unnecessary uncertainty, and if there is something the airlines do not need now, there is even more uncertainty about the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1370	These were many fine words. But we now know that there is a Nordic investigation work going on that could better explain the importance of the bonus schemes for competition internationally and nationally. The result of this work will be available in the spring. What basis does the Ministry have for not waiting for these assessments? The Council of State understands that this urgency can be very easily linked to the reluctance of the Council of State to buy Braathens?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1375	As regards the issue of coordination in relation to the investigation work carried out on a Nordic basis, there is a question that naturally needs to be assessed by the Competition Authority. Let me make it clear: we have not instructed the Competition Authority to implement concrete measures. We have asked them to consider measures that may seem restrictive, and it is the Competition Authority itself that has decided this warning about the bonus schemes now. I'm glad they've done it, but we haven't ordered them to do it. So the timing of different measures is the Competition Authority that has to assess. As for the second part of the supplementary question, I would like to make it clear: there is no one here that adds up to any rematch on the SAS-Braathens case, but I think it is very important that both SAS and Braathens and everyone else know what competitive conditions they should be dealing with, not just next week, but in six months and a year. We must not get there to create competitive framework conditions as a surprise package to be published sometime in the future. That is the worst thing for all parties in this market. That is why I maintain that the matter is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1382	Through the media, it has become known that the Ministry of Administration has engaged in the matter, despite the Minister of Administration expressing principleal scepticism for the political review of the Competition Authority's assessments. It is now that this letter from the Council of State to the Competition Authority is perceived as an instruction for the review of the bonus programme. Is not the Council of State itself aware that this can be perceived a bit strange, yes very strange, in the aviation environment, and that it can easily be seen that the Council of State is out to take SAS instead of caring for the interests of passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1387	I have no guarantee of how it is perceived elsewhere, but let me stress again: I am interested that we should have an aviation industry that works well – for passengers and for those who work in the industry. Let me also make it clear that we have not instructed the Competition Authority what to do in concrete terms; we have asked them to consider some questions. Finally, let me – and that may be the most important thing – make it clear that what I have said in the past is that I want independent competition supervision for the assessment of individual cases. But, of course, I do not want the Government to engage in competition policy. It is clear that competition policy, like all other policies, is what the Government is going to do, the Council of State is going to do and the Storting is going to do. Competition supervision shall implement the policy we pursue. So I've never raised, and I'm never going to raise, that the Minister of Labour and Administration or anyone else should not be involved in aviation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1397	I want to ask the Social Minister the following questions: ‘In Røros secondary school, there has been a frighteningly high level of drug abuse among students. In this youth group, drug abuse has increased sharply in recent years. What action will the Council of State take to prevent increasing drug use among young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1406	Unfortunately, I am afraid that the situation at Røros is not unique. The State Institute for Drug Research has shown that recent years have seen a marked increase in the use of both legal and illicit drugs by young people. In 2000, there was evidence of a flare in the use of illicit drugs, but it remains at a high level. However, the use of alcohol among young people shows a sharp increase in the trend. The situation is alarming. There is a link between the use of alcohol by young people and the use of illicit drugs. The purpose of the co-operation administration is therefore to reduce total alcohol consumption and bring more of the alcohol turnover into legal forms. I understand that it is not just a drug problem, but that there is also a significant amount of illegal alcohol on the market in Røros. Reducing access to home-burning and smuggling alcohol, especially among young people, will therefore be an important tool both to reduce consumption and to prevent experimentation with drugs. Cooperation management will focus on prevention and targeted health and social policy measures to combat drug abuse. We have already implemented a number of targeted measures to address the situation to the most serious abusers. Responsibility for the further development of health services for drug users is transferred to the new Ministry of Health from 1 January 2002. We have proposed a 20 million increase in funding for lowthreshold health measures. kr, and for medicament-assisted rehabilitation of 35 million. kr, so that all who are in line are offered. The government will present a separate action plan on drug problems, which will focus on both prevention and improved treatment provision for drug users. In this context, we will strengthen the prevention work aimed at young people and the parental regeneration, including the drug prevention work of voluntary organisations. Co-operation management will also aim at more effective coordination of the resources used in drug users’ and psychiatry’s interventions. Good preventive work must be locally anchored and the municipalities have their own responsibility for this. In order to improve the quality of work, regional drug competence centres shall assist municipalities with recommended methods and guide them in their practical implementation. They may also contribute some financial resources to the development of preventive measures. A research commission has also recently been set up to summarise existing knowledge in the field of drugs. It will point to drug policy dilemmas and choices in the coming years and look at the need for further research. The Commission shall report by July next year and there is reason to believe that it will enable us to choose and implement even more targeted and accurate instruments. Otherwise, I can tell you that I intend to visit Røro's high school with the first. The aim is to get first-hand knowledge of the situation there and to have a dialogue with the community about what can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1425	I thank the Council of State for a satisfactory answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State describes this as a worrying situation and that several measures have already been taken. I am also very pleased that the Council of State has planned a visit to Røros High School. Like the Council of State, I am also concerned about how we can achieve the results we want in prevention. I am of the opinion that it is very important that parents and schools become active participants in this work. I hope the Minister for Social Affairs will look at how the future prevention work can be carried out in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1436	To what the representative points out about prevention, I would just like to stress that we are in the process of adopting and working on a plan of action in the field of drug care, and just how the prevention work is one of the main pillars.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1441	Question 16 will be answered in front of question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1447	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The use of wire centre components on motorway passes or encounters strong reactions from the motorcycle environment. In Denmark, these middle parts are being dismantled due to several nasty accidents. In Norway, wire will be used for economic reasons. The zero vision in relation to fatal accidents must cover all road users, including those driving motorcycles. How does the Council of State assess the use of wire dividers, and how will the Council of State ensure safety with the use of these middle parts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1456	Different types of handrails are used to reduce the level of damage caused by accidents at the disposal of the public or by the public. Wire railing is one of several types of railing used in this work. As the representative here points out, cable pickers have been in use for a long time in some of our neighbouring countries. The Danish Directorate of Roads has carried out studies comparing wire-retardants with steel rail-retrieves after the decision to remove wire-retardants. This study showed that there do not appear to be more accidents with serious results in the use of wire screeds than in the case of steel rail screeds. In Sweden, wire works have been used to a large extent as middle parts on both four-field and three-field roads. Here, very good results can be demonstrated in reducing the number of deaths and serious injuries. From the beginning of wire meshes on three-field roads in 1997 until now, no one has been killed on these road sections, while on the control sections, where there have been no midway works, there have been several fatal accidents. The type of wire truck used in Norway has been improved in terms of road safety compared to the type of handrail used in Denmark. According to the State Road Service’s assessment, the main line of pillars may present a risk to motorcyclists. Bars with sharp edges and protruding parts are more dangerous than, for example: round posts. The new guidelines that will be available in a short time will point out that consideration for motorcyclists will have to be given to the choice of the type of handrail and the location of handrails. This will include, inter alia: be required to use rounded posts. The State Road Service, in cooperation with the Norwegian Motorcycle Union, has concluded that it is also appropriate to look at how handrails can be tested with respect to motorcycle rides and that an analysis of handrails should be carried out. These works are under way and the results are expected to be available in a short time. An examination is also made of how these handrails can be further improved, if necessary, in respect of motorcycle rides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1469	I thank you for your answer. I think it might be a little defensive to say that there are as many fatal accidents with steel rails as there are with wire dividers. Well, I guess we're working on not having fatal accidents at all. I agree that the poles can also be a danger. But if you look at these wire parts, you see that they also look very scary for motorcyclists. I am aware of the work done in the NMCU and the Road Directorate in this area, which is important, and that you have the motorcyclists in what is now going to happen. But there is a lot of faith and doubt about what will benefit the traffic environment, and in that context, new tests are needed. My question to the Minister of Transport will then be whether she will ensure that tests are carried out so that research results can be taken into account before using more wire units than one has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1476	I think we all agree that keeping the accident figures down is an important goal. In this context, it is important to identify the appropriate measures to avoid such accidents, and it is important that the motorcycling environment is involved in the debate on the appropriate measures to avoid accidents to which this group of road users is exposed. That is why it is important for me, as Minister of Transport, to ensure that we constantly seek what measures – and in the case of middle-parties, which type of middle-parts – are the best way to ensure safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1481	I thank you again for the answer, and will ask the Council of State to elaborate a little bit more on what kind of tests have been done in relation to this, when it will happen, and whether it will happen before new wire intermediaries are set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1486	I assume, when the State Road Service looks at these kinds of issues, that they will carry out the tests that should be carried out, before deciding on the type of middle parts that should be used where, and also to the extent that you are going to use wire centre dividers, look at their design and how to ensure that they are as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1495	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Helga Eggebø.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1498	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘High-speed rail bets, inter alia: in France, Germany and Spain, has been a major success. A similar effort in Norway could, for example: give a travel time Oslo–Skien of 1 hour, Oslo–Bergen 2:25, Oslo–Haugesund 2:05. With such travel times, the railway could be a real alternative to the car for travel on shorter distances, and for aircraft at longer distances. Will the Council of State contribute to a more positive focus on a more environmentally friendly and forward-looking railway policy in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1507	As part of a policy for better public transport, the co-operation administration will give priority to rail activities where the railways have their greatest advantage and contribute most to improving the environment and accessibility. Now I am very aware that the population density and opportunities for profitable railway operations in France, Germany and Spain are completely different from those in Norway. We must have a level of ambition adapted to Norwegian conditions. For passenger services, the aim is to increase the pace of double-track development in the metropolitan areas, in particular in the Oslo area and in the intercity sections. In addition, a higher priority will be given to the development and development of stations and hubs for railway traffic and other public transport. This will make the railway more competitive, through shorter travel time, higher frequency and better quality for travellers. In the case of freight transport, the development of appropriate terminal and cross-rail capacity and profile extensions will be given particular priority to those sections where the best means of facilitating rail to relieve the burden on road transport for the benefit of the environment and business. The broad lines of railway policy for the next decade have been drawn up through the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2002–2011 by the Storting. As is known, neither the Haukelibane nor other high-speed projects are priorities within the national transport plan. Today’s highway in Norway is a first generation railway built with few exceptions 100 to 150 years ago. The requirements for trasé, speed, carrying capacity and profile in tunnels were completely different at the time than today. Today's network is approx. 4000 km, of which only approx. 200 km double tracks. This situation poses major challenges in relation to the priority of resource use over the years to come. In my opinion, it is very important not to create unrealistic expectations about what it is possible and right to invest in for the railways in Norway. The government has a clear objective of improving the quality and capacity of the overall collective offer, including the railway. A good collective offer means less cows, better access to food and utility transport and also dampens the need for new road projects. How we can best set up a comprehensive policy to achieve this, I want to get closer to a announced public transport report, which the Government intends to promote in the spring of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1518	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Today we have high-speed train from Gardermoen to Oslo S. After Oslo S, the speed has to be reduced dramatically, thereby prolonging the journey time. Would it be interesting for the Council of State to assess the construction of a high-speed flight train from Oslo S and beyond to, for example, The drama?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1525	We will continuously assess where it is most beneficial to invest in infrastructure in Norway. Whether it's going to be on the railways or in other ways, we have to evaluate it continuously. I can't promise here and now that we will continue to work in relation to the flight trasé further to the Drammen, but we're thinking about how we can solve the rail challenges as effectively as possible, among other things. in the Oslo area. This is part of the initiative in relation to the Oslo package II. The part of the railway operation contained in the Oslo package II is important to address several rail challenges in the metropolitan region. That's why the bet we have here now is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1530	I thank you again for the answer. The Council of State addressed the problems of high-speed rail in Norway compared to Europe and argued that the population density in Norway is quite different. However, studies show that air traffic between East and West Norway actually has a passenger base of more than three million people per year, which is more than what is calculated as necessary to be able to bet on high-speed rail in Europe. I welcome the fact that the Council of State wants to invest more in environmentally friendly public transport – and therefore wonder: When will it be appropriate for the Government to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal that contributes to such a forward-looking rail debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1539	As I mentioned, Norwegian railway policy was properly discussed when the National Transport Plan was dealt with in Stortinget not long ago. The co-operation government will, as I said, present a big message on public transport during the spring session, and there we will address what is important to bet on when we think about public transport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1547	‘Does the Council of State intend to ensure that the State contributes significantly to a reduction in flight prices on the short-distance network and the main route network in North Norway and between North Norway and South Norway, and that, at the discretion of the Council of State, the best means of achieving such an objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1552	The government considers a good and decent flight offer to be absolutely necessary in a country as far away as Norway. Therefore, the country uses considerable resources to contribute to a good and appropriate provision of air transport services also to the population of Northern Norway. This applies both to the extensive purchase of air route services and to significant financial transfers to the operation of North Norwegian airports. The government has proposed to remove the passenger fee of DKK 256 for a return trip as of 1 April 2002, which will help to reduce ticket prices accordingly on the important routes from Bodø and Tromsø to South Norway and between Bodø and Tromsø, and for the rest of the country that has this charge today. Aviation is a market of free competition, i.e.: free pricing and capacity determination. There is free access for EEA-based airlines to establish themselves on routes also internally in Norway. The liberalisation of aviation, which was a consequence of the EEA Agreement, means that the previously relatively detailed government management of price and capacity in the route offer has lapsed. Therefore, one has no direct means by the authorities to affect the determination of offered capacity and price structure by airlines. In order for the removal of the passenger charge to have a positive impact on competition, it is necessary to reduce barriers to establishment in the Norwegian aviation market. Competition supervision, which has a general responsibility for promoting competition in this market as well, is therefore requested to go through all agreements and arrangements that may hinder establishment and competition. In exceptional cases, competition authorities may intervene in the event of abuse of a dominant position by an airline. The most direct means of action by the State is the purchase of air route services, including the establishment of requirements for offered capacity and normal price levels on routes in the districts which would not have had a good enough transport standard without such public purchases. The Ministry is now working on the preparation of requirements specifications in relation to the next contractual period for such purchases of air route services from 1 April 2003. The call for tenders will be made in the new year, and prices are a key issue in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1565	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is specifically proposed in the State budget is the cancellation of the passenger fee, which will have a consequence of NOK 230 per person. ticket in general. I will then show that a full price ticket today between Finnmark/Troms and Oslo return costs more than NOK 6000, and on the Nordic network, for example. between the aerodromes and Bodø costs from NOK 2000 to NOK 2500. There has been a significant increase in prices in recent years. And one could say that a consequence of this is that the framework conditions both for the population and the business community of the country have been significantly worsened, because there are no alternative ways to travel quickly. In the case of transport, aviation is self-financing. There has been a surplus on the Aviation Agency’s budget. It doesn't seem like it's going to be in the future. But my point is that travelling by plane is a necessity and in that way a public transport, in line with e.g. Railway here in the East. So my supplementary question to the Minister for Transport is whether the Minister agrees that air travel is a public transport in, for example. North Norway, and in budgetary terms, in the same way as NSB, is willing to consider measures to bring down flight prices in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1570	What's now being pointed out is absolutely correct. We live in a country that has major transport challenges. That's exactly why it's important that we have the ability to use the means that we can use, and that we use through the tendering process on the short-range network. Here we have the opportunity to push the price down as far as we can, and that's important. That's what you do through negotiations, and at the same time, the state goes in and buys services here. We do that because we believe that the journeys would otherwise be too expensive. This is a clear signal from me that aviation is important in Norway. We will also give priority to this in the future, including: by the way we are now working on a new bidding round. We are deliberately using tenders to get as low a ticket price for passengers as possible. We also go in from the state side and buy services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1575	I notice that the minister refers to the short-distance network in terms of the purchase of services. It has been discussed in Stortinget in the past to investigate and look at the possibilities of doing the same thing on the main route network. My question to the minister will be whether she is willing to see if the same scheme can be applied to the main route network between North Norway and out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1580	In principle, it should be that when we have an aviation market that we have as part of the EEA, we want to make use of the possibility that other airlines should also have the opportunity to establish themselves here in the country and thus compete, so that travellers too can get lower prices. Therefore, it is still the case that the main route network will be slightly different from the short-distance network. Of course – and I want to – we want to keep an eye on how prices will develop in the future. It is clear that aviation, as is said here, is very important in our country, so I'm going to keep track of how prices develop. We have the possibilities now mentioned to influence the prices of the short-distance network, through the purchase of services and through the bidding round. That's what we're going to use in the first place. Otherwise, we're going to follow closely what's going on with the prices of the main route network.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1589	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The election campaign in Hedmark, and probably also in other states, included the theme of express buses and the number of new concessions. Among other things, Østerdal Billag AS has applied for four new routes. Can the Council of State promise a rapid and positive response, so that the offer to travellers is as good as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1598	The establishment of cross-border bus routes requires appropriate permission. The application shall be sent to the county councils, which are preparatory bodies and which make recommendations. A final decision was taken by the Ministry of Transport. The need test shall focus on the relationship with the railway, the internal routes, which are the responsibility of the counties, and other express bus routes. In practice, the relationship with the railway has been central. Through Stortingen's treatment of St.meld. No 46 for 1999–2000, National Transport Plan 2002–2011, it opened up to an embellishment of the rights policy in relation to the railways in the central eastern region. According to this, before the summer, Busslink AS was granted six privileges for six high-frequency bus routes in this area. I want a more liberal rights policy. Although this will be able to compete with the railway system, it is most important for me collectively to establish a better collective service. The policy mix in this area will be discussed in the Communication on public transport, which I intend to present in the spring session. As far as I know, Østerdal Billag and Gauldal Billag currently have two applications for new express bus loops, namely between Trondheim and Oslo over Kvikne and Elverum, and between Folldal and Trondheim over Alvdal and Kvikne. The applications are currently pending in Hedmark County. Following the completion of the proceedings in the county municipality, the cases will normally be referred to the department for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1609	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an orientation on how things are done, and on what will be done in the future. I am very pleased with the views expressed by the Council of State that she wants a liberal rights policy so that we get better public transport. The most important thing for me – and certainly for many others – is that we get good offers at the lowest price possible. Hamar Arbeiderblad has had a number of articles on, among others: That's exactly what this theme is. It has been found that with the support given to NSB Passenger Traffic, 59.8 million. kr a year, Østerdal Billag could have twenty departures each day and the passengers drove for free. Can the Council of State say anything about this idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1618	When we want a more liberal express bus policy, that doesn't mean we have to hit good rail solutions hard. We have spent considerable money on the railways over time, so it is important that we also have good rail solutions. But at the same time, I see that there is a flexibility in such express bus routes, and as long as it can provide travellers with a good offer, I think there is every reason to look at such solutions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1625	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We agree that express buses – by being able to stop anywhere – provide a flexibility that trains can be difficult to provide, and that assistance has now become more flexible. When we're in economics, the railway here is going to change sleepers for 350 million. kr – that is the sum I have heard – which is a quite significant sum. Rv 3, which goes along the railway here, would have needed those heads. Is it possible for the Council of State to think about transferring funds from the railway to – in this case – Rv 3 in order to make it both more roadworthy and in other ways more traffic-friendly for those using it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1634	I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that for me, as Minister of Transport, it will not always be the case that the elections are either – or. We need a good railway in Norway. That's why it's important to spend money on the railroad. It is also important to have a good road network, which is both road-safe and provides better accessibility. So when we're going to prioritize and have to choose between rail and road, it's going to be about what solves our challenges best, both in the short and long term. That's why it's important to bet on both rail and road.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1652	This question has been withdrawn. We will now address question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1661	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1664	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who addresses them: ‘Regional transport aid was introduced as an important instrument to improve the competitiveness of business. Since the end of the designation of these funds, the county councils have cut significantly in the scheme. What will the Council of State do to correct this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1673	As from 1989, responsibility for the transport aid scheme was transferred from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the individual municipality, the first two years through earmarked transport aid frameworks. From 1991, however, transport aid was introduced into the income system. There are now four counties who practice the scheme: South-Trøndelag, North-Trøndelag, Nordland and Troms. Based on the former national legislation and the EEA Regulation, county councils have developed their own legislation adapted to regional circumstances. Norwegian companies may also receive indirect transport aid through the approval of a differentiated employer’s fee under the EEA Agreement as an indirect transport aid scheme. In recent years, regional and regional policies have been a deliberate strategy to focus on the decentralisation and delegation of responsibilities and powers. There's a line The Cooperation Government wants to follow up. The county has an important regional development role. This development role was underlined by the bulk of the population involved in the processing of the task-sharing message. According to the Planning and Building Act, the county also has a coordinating responsibility for industrial development in the county. In general, the Cooperative Government wants to work for minor designation and detailed management of the county framework. Regional transport aid is one of the instruments used by the municipality on its own initiative to offer business. I therefore do not regard it as a current policy to earmark funds for transport aid or to reintroduce the regional transport aid scheme as a state scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1684	I thank you for the answer, but I must say I am disappointed at the defensive attitude of the Council of State to such an important issue for the business community in this part of the country that is so far away from the market. In fact, the way it works today is that the further from the market the producer is, the less transport aid he receives. Many rural enterprises compete with Swedish enterprises, which receive significant transport support. Very well known, Sweden allocates nearly 400 million Swedish krona in such support to business. With the large distances we have in our country and little or no transport support, it goes without saying that competition with Swedish business is becoming quite hopeless. Therefore, I had hoped that the Council of State could assess a transport aid scheme in line with the one they have in Sweden, which could possibly be subject to the SND system, as I understand it works in Sweden. I ask again: can the Council of State consider the Swedish system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1693	In repeated individual cases, the Ministry has assessed the difference between the Swedish and Norwegian schemes. The main difference is that in the Norwegian scheme there is a differentiated employer charge to calculate as indirect transport aid and to offset each situation against the amount that an enterprise receives, for example. from the county, in transport aid. This means that it appears that Norwegian companies are getting significantly less in transport aid than Swedish companies. But that is where we have to deal with the EEA legislation, also taking into account the fact that the differentiated employer fee is a transport aid in an international context. That is why I do not agree that our transport aid scheme – and not for the Nordic states – is worse for the individual company than the Swedish scheme is. Many people do not want to take into account the fact that we are required to include the effect of a differentiated employer's fee in that context, but this is the case. The EEA Agreement thus provides a framework for what we can do in the area of State aid in general. And in line with the desire of a large majority to develop the county council more in terms of the regional development role, I am not prepared today to say that we will reconsider taking out these kinds of questions from the county municipality's portfolio. I personally and my party have disagreed, but this is the basis of the cooperation government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1700	In fact, I thought that when it came to the differentiated employer's fee, it had other elements in it than compensation for transport. And I actually still think that's the way it is. I would like to ask the Council of State: does not the Council of State believe that such compensatory measures as transport aid are even more important when it is now seen that SND should be built up as a tool to promote innovation and business in District Norway? Does not the Council of State think that such a level playing field is what is needed to enable businesses in the northern part of the country and other districts to compete with other industries in the domestic and foreign countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1707	I agree that compensatory measures are important and that they should be operational in the form of a transport aid scheme. But it is, as I said, a framework around our transport aid scheme that is therefore a differentiated employer charge that also counts in relation to what support you can provide to an enterprise, which means that it is to be seen as an indirect transport aid. I think we can discuss whether we should have other models for this. But the single examples I have on calculations of what companies have got from county municipalities, and how one emphasises the differentiated employer's fee, show that we have about as good a system as Sweden in this area. Then we can discuss what's going to happen in the future, but I'm not prepared to take away the county council from this task at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1714	We go back to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1721	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In Finnfjordbotn secondary school in Troms, two Kosovo Albanian boys are students. Both boys have been denied their applications for an extended residence permit in Norway and have to leave without a completed education. Is this in line with the Government's policy, and will the Council of State take the initiative to conduct a political review of this field?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1730	Initially, I would like to say that I answered this question from the big group to SV in a letter dated 31 October 2001, and the answer there is in line with the answer I am giving now. It is in line with the Government’s policy that persons who are refused asylum should leave the country as soon as possible after notification of the decision. There must be strong reasons why they should not. It is positive that asylum seekers in Norway have a meaningful life while they are here as asylum seekers, either by taking education or by working. However, this cannot prevent them from returning to their home country when it is clear that they are not entitled to asylum or reside on another basis here in the country. The starting point is that asylum seekers are not entitled to admission to secondary school while the application for asylum is for treatment. However, exemptions are granted to minor asylum seekers who may attend secondary school until they may be refused a residence permit in the country. But when that rejection comes, we believe that they should leave the country immediately. I see no need to change practices in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1741	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a very clear, but very little nuanced answer. I'm very disappointed in the answer. This case has engaged and upset an entire community. It has engaged school management, students, the local population and the local government. Does the Council of State see the point that has been pointed out all along, that these guys are in the middle of an education that they've been occupied with on a very ordinary basis in the past, and that it's going to be little humane and little humane to send these guys out of the country before they've completed their initial education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1748	In a lot of cases involving asylum seekers and refugees who have been allowed to be integrated and associate with the Nordics in our society, it's actually like there's counter-reactions about whether they're at work or whether they're going to school, at the moment you send them out. For me as the Council of State, it is important to say that the institution of asylum we have is about people in need of protection being protected in Norway. Then we're going to apply strict humanitarian criteria related to special situations, but completing a school offer is not, in my opinion, such a strict humanitarian basis. It is also important that people return to Kosovo today. It is important that people are involved and contribute to rebuilding their country, and there has been quite a development in Kosovo in recent years, among others. within the school system. New schools are built, and the offer is getting better than it was a few years ago. In addition to SV’s ageing group, the Ministry has also had correspondence with Finnfjordbotn secondary school where these children are students. We have made recommendations in this letter on what they should do to provide evidence of the training they have already taken here, so that it can easily be translated into the education system in Kosovo when they come home. But we do not think, as I said, that this is a strong enough humanitarian basis for being left to complete education. The longer you're gone, the harder it is to get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1755	There have been several similar cases in the past as well, so this is not the only example. But I would like to ask the Council of State a question, because I want to go into and discuss and discuss the policy that is being implemented today: how does the Council of State want me to proceed to create a dialogue with the Government today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1760	Such legislation is now no longer the political treatment of individual cases. I assume that the representative believes that there is a question of principles related to being allowed to stay if you are first under education. In this case, it is a question where the representative is free to discuss the various types of documents that can be promoted in the Stortinget – and get feedback from the Government, the government parties and the majority of the population – if you want to put new types of leadership in this policy. So I suggest that the representative use the usual forms that a wholesaler has with regard to raising questions for discussion on a basic basis and not related to very specific matters, which we do not have to deal with in the department, and where I would break Norwegian law if I were to start going into the individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1776	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Does the Council of State feel that opening the boundaries of unskilled labour will not go beyond the 60 000 jobseekers in this country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1783	I am – just like the representative Eye – concerned that they are approx. 60,000 jobseekers we have here in the country are going to get to work as soon as possible. At the same time, I think we need to realize that many industries have for a long time not been able to provide the labour they need, despite the 60 000 jobseekers. The annual business survey of Aetat showed in May this year that enterprises in Norway need 40,000 more workers. If we can't meet this need, it will go beyond the value creation in general and our ability to solve many important societal tasks. Increased value creation is necessary if we are also to succeed in finding good offers for many of those who are today looking for work. To top it off, shortages of labour can now increase the number of unemployed in the future. In many cases where employers have problems with recruitment, this is due to the nature of their work. Many have, for example: difficulty in recruiting labour for hard physical work or for work that is highly routine. Many of those who are today looking for a job or who have a social security scheme, but want to work something, do not have the physical capacity to take these kinds of jobs. At the same time, there are geographical differences in unemployment in Norway. We therefore want to expand access to unskilled labour from abroad. However, the government will hold employers responsible for recruiting from abroad. This means, among other things: the requirement to provide suitable housing for the worker. Of course, recruitment from the rest of the world is not to replace available domestic labour. We are also bound by the EEA Agreement, which requires job vacancies to be published throughout the EEA territory before being filled with third-country nationals. Access to labour from non-EEA countries shall not lead to lower labour costs for employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1792	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but she does not answer my question. It is not that the Labour Party is against increased labour immigration, but at the same time we are very concerned that we should focus on how to get those who are outside the labour market today to work. It should therefore be quite obvious that we made every effort to obtain those who are out of the labour market today, training, labour market measures, so that they can enter the job vacancies. Therefore, it is also very important that we now focus on labour market measures, help for further training and retraining. The right, as you know, will often cut labour market measures, and they are now also cutting in Aetat, which is the key to getting them to work. Can the State Council confirm that the increase in unskilled labour migration does not mean that the Aetat and labour market measures are downgraded?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1801	We have presented a budget that maintains the level of labour market action at exactly the same level as that promoted by the Stoltenberg Government. In addition, we have worked a long time to find other ways of conveying labour. This has also been followed up by the Stoltenberg government after a majority in the Stortinget last year adopted a proposal from the undersigned as a representative of the Storings to use intermediaries other than the Aetat also for the disadvantaged. We think it will mean that more of the 60,000 who are looking for work, plus the large amount that does not come in among the 60,000, but who have some residual capacity, people who are insured, or people in the more protected areas who have disabilities of different types, can also be more likely to enter the labour market. If an enterprise has not found the skilled labour force they have been looking for in Norway, but has found a person, for example: from Eastern Europe, which can solve the problems, and which will be a good employee, I find it unnatural that it is not the company's assessment of whether this person can do the job, which is crucial, but a regulation adopted by the Storting, and the Foreign Affairs Act. That's one of the reasons why I want to liberalize in terms of unskilled labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1808	But it's a little funny that the availability of immigrants here in the country is actually five times as high as among the Nordics. We also know that we're going to settle in a place between 7,000 and 8,000 immigrants in the municipalities for next year. The municipalities say that it is a problem to accept immigrants because they do not get them to work, and that they thus become very costly. Even skilled immigrants are actually available in this country. Will not further labour immigration by unskilled workers make it even more difficult to get immigrants who have received a residence permit here in the country to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1815	If an employer receives qualified applicants for the job they have advertised — and it is an obligation to publish it in advance in Norway — they are not allowed to apply for employment outside the EEA territory. This means that it is not a person who is qualified to do the job, who is displaced by increased immigration of labour even in the case of unskilled workers. There has been an important requirement in the Sem Declaration and also an important requirement in the proposals that the Right in ours has put forward on exactly the same issue, because we are to prevent it from happening at the expense of those who are already looking for work in Norway. In addition, we are going to make it more expensive to take in labour from other countries, precisely because we are making some extra demands related to housing. This in itself means that there will be a stronger motivation to hire people who are already in Norway, while the company may have to take a higher training cost at the beginning. I therefore believe that we are well within the scope of taking account of the fact that the 60,000 unemployed in Norway will get to work before the issue of labour migration becomes relevant. But we have a mobility problem in Norway. There are some places in the country where the unemployed are unemployed, while elsewhere there is a total shortage of labour. So we have some problems we have to solve internally, but some of them also have to be able to solve when we import.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1825	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The dreaded salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris has now been detected in a rainbow trout farming plant on the Swedish side of Enningdalselva. [[Gyro]] There is now a high risk that the parasite will infect the salmon strain in Enningdalselva. What will the Council of State do to prevent Gyro from spreading to the salmon of Enningdalselva?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1834	The information on the detection of Gyrodactylus salaris in the Swedish farm in Bullaren reached the Ministry of Environment at the end of October. In a letter to the Swedish Minister of Agriculture on 2 November, I expressed great concern that the parasite could be spread to the valuable salmon population in Enningdalselva, which was also in the presence of the representative, and asked that the infected plant be refurbished from the Swedish side as soon as possible. In addition, I asked her to contribute to the fact that there is no driving of rainbow trout in the water catchment area of Enningsdalselva in the future. The Bullar breeder plant is a marshalling plant, i.e. a plant using open seas lying out in the water. This is considered to be the most remote form of farming, due to the risk of disease spread and escape. The cultivation of rainbow trout in Norway was previously mainly farmed in fresh water. All such rearing has now been completed and no authorisation for re-establishment is granted. Because the rainbow trout can act as host for Gyro, no new permits are granted for breeding this species in fresh water at all — neither in marshalling plants nor in land-based facilities in Norway. Since the detection of the parasite, Norwegian environmental and veterinary authorities have been in constant contact with their Swedish colleagues. The preliminary signals from the Swedish side indicate weaknesses in the legislation, and it appears from the Swedish side that it is difficult for Swedish authorities to implement the necessary reorganisation measures quickly. This question will be clarified in a meeting between the Swedish and Norwegian professional authorities scheduled for the next week. After the meeting was held, the Minister of Agriculture and I will assess how we will handle the matter further in relation to the Swedish authorities. Fortunately, Gyro was not found in the samples taken by the wild axis of the Enningsdalselva so far, but we cannot be sure whether the parasite has all spread to the river and will now intensify the monitoring of the watercourse. It is announced today early, and it is now started. In my opinion, this case shows that it is necessary to strengthen long-term cooperation with our neighbouring countries in order to prevent the spread of Gyrodactylus salaris to new areas. I will therefore ensure that both the outbreak in Bullaren and the long-term work in this area are given high priority in the future. I also want to add that the Norwegian Atlantic salmon actually does not tolerate Gyro infection, while the Baltic salmon over many years has been used to Gyro. It's another genetic salmon strain, and it can withstand it. We see the same thing with regard to the Russian salmon that is linked to the Baltic Sea area. If the rainbow trout that is now found in the Bullar, should come down into the Halden watercourse, the infection will therefore spread rapidly, and the salmon in the beautiful watercourse will die. Now we just have to get an understanding in Sweden first because it's actually dangerous with Gyro in Norway, which is not the same in Sweden. This is now given high priority by my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1851	I thank you for the answer from the Minister for the Environment and appreciate that he reacted so quickly to my – I choose to believe it – question submitted, dated 1 November this year. Already on 2 November, the Minister for the Environment sent a letter to the Swedish Minister for Agriculture, to which he was referring. The Environment Minister's commitment to Sellafield has been very positive, and I am now wondering what means he will use if this dialogue does not take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1856	I would first like to say that the representative May Hansen has shown a very good commitment, which I very much appreciate, and which is also necessary for us to get there. Yesterday afternoon I took a phone call to the Swedish Minister of Agriculture and entered into a direct dialogue with her. I think that was actually necessary for us to get this matter properly on track. During the conversation I promised to send her additional information in addition to the letter I sent, and I was promised feedback directly from the Swedish Minister of Agriculture during this week. At the weekend's party conference in the Social Democrats, she has marked herself by shutting down all cages for fur farming in Sweden, and she is known for having a strong environmental exposure. I tried to get through with an understanding that the salmon in Norway does not actually tolerate this infection, because then it dies out. Maintaining a rainbow trout plant in Sweden, where there is a high risk of transmission to the Halden watercourse, is not acceptable. In fact, it is also possible to ask questions in relation to the environmental conventions that exist. There's a review going on, but first of all, we're going to have a good dialogue with the Swedes, so that they can get an understanding of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1863	I thank you again for the answer, but it's clear that this is very urgent, we know that. There are narrow national interests and national laws that now have major regional environmental impacts for Norway, so I expect that we will have to act in the future, and that the Minister for the Environment will do so if these talks do not reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1868	The dilemma is that the Norwegian authorities cannot actually go into the Swedish territory and shut down and clean up such a facility, which would have happened if it had been in Norwegian territory. That is why we are totally dependent on having a dialogue and understanding in Sweden for this plant to be refurbished. I have now tried to do my very best in relation to this to the Swedish Minister of Agriculture, and I am very pleased that she has promised me feedback this week. I have also asked that we think through national measures that can be implemented if we do not target. There is a possibility – theoretically, of course – that is to set up a sieve in the river. The problem is that the farm is high and the Halden watercourse is low. Setting a sieve to stop everything that comes from the bully is technically very demanding. It's expensive and maybe impossible, because the water level is changing, and it can also have other biological consequences if you stop what is naturally going to come down the river. But as I said – because I am very concerned about this matter and I am very concerned that the salmon in the Halden watercourse will survive and not be infected – I have asked that we think through what many think is an impossibility. But first of all, I hope now that I get to this dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1879	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘It is important to ensure that everyone can move freely in the coastal zone. Although there is a general ban on construction in the beach zone, much is still being built. The evening post says that since 1982 7800 new buildings around Oslofjord have been authorised. The Stoltenberg Government’s public health report on outdoor life mentions measures that will delineate further construction in the coastal zone. Since the new government has not drawn the outdoor message, I expect the Council of State to support the proposals. When will these legislative changes be submitted to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1888	I fully agree with the representative Sylvia Brustad that it is important to ensure the movement of everyone in the beach zone. The policy of the Co-operation Board is based on the Sem Declaration. This statement states that the Government will monitor developments and ensure universal and public access to natural and coastal areas. In fact, it is a characteristic of Norway in relation to other countries that people who think they need to get into another person's property are at least free to travel out of the country and usually not to be stopped by people who think they need to get into another person's property. We have some more challenges along the beach zone, but that's why the open-air message has also stuck with it. Allemannsrecht is the foundation of outdoor life in Norway and is well anchored, as I have mentioned, in Norwegian tradition and partly also in legislation. It provides the population with better opportunities for use in outdoor and natural areas than those we find in many other countries. It is therefore important to protect the values represented by the rights of all persons. The figures from the Evening Post show that careful monitoring of developments in the coastal zone is important. The news about outdoor life being treated in Stortinget is not being drawn. That means that I agree that it is important to continue the coastal zone effort, i.e. free movement, with particular emphasis on information and land documentation. I also agree that it is important to define further construction in the beach zone. In its first sub-position, the Plan Law Committee has proposed amendments to the provisions on exemptions and on construction bans in the hundred metres belt along the sea so that the construction ban can be tightened. These proposals will be followed up and evaluated by the Ministry of the Environment by means of a proposed odelstation in the spring of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1899	I am pleased with the signals from the Minister for the Environment to ring a bell on the rights of all people, which are somewhat in conflict with the Højre's election programme, which is clear that local authorities will continue to have freedom of movement, regardless of the negative consequences – at least as we read it – and that the party will not restrict private property rights. Can the Minister for the Environment assure that the Right, the Minister for the Environment and the Government will support the Workers' Party's proposal for a new rule in the Outdoors Act which restricts the possibility of granting exemptions to build in the coastal zone, in order to establish that the right to free movement shall, in any case, apply to the first 25 metres from the beach area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1906	I think we agree that the rights of all people are essential and that we must protect them. Now the representative goes into some single points. Firstly, free movement in the coastal zone is quite rightly linked to the outdoor law and to the formulations that lie there. The Open Air Act has not been withdrawn from the Government's side, so it will be a great deal of treatment. In the case of construction bans in the 100 metre zone, it is actually part of the Planning and Building Act and in particular not the Outdoors Act. Essentially, we need to follow up on the Plan Law Commission, which addresses these questions. But I think one should be aware that a good part, in fact the main part, of the matters in the Evening Post's suggestion about building in the hundred meter belt actually revolved around plans where there was a change in the regulation and not the dispensation of the municipalities that were used. And in terms of regulatory change, then, since 1982, state authorities have been sitting and accepting these regulatory changes that involve building in the coastal zone, without using the state right of objection that has actually existed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1915	There can be no doubt that there has been a quite significant undermining of the decision taken here in the house about 35 years ago, when the Stortinget was very foresight when it was under construction ban in the beach zone. We can take a discussion about which law things belong, and I am of course aware that something belongs to the law on outdoors and other things belong to the Law on Planning and Building. But what's the interesting question here is whether you want to put power behind the words of securing the public's right to free movement even in the coastal zone, and that you actually intend to act in that context. That is why, once again, my specific question: Will the Government and the Minister for the Environment contribute to supporting proposals from the Workers' Party which make it more difficult to obtain exemptions, and that it becomes more difficult to build in the beach zone, so that we can actually ensure that there is more universal and more free movement? That's what this is all about. Words are good and good, but there are actions that count.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1922	In the case of free movement and the report contained in the open-air message on a clearer definition of the free movement right in the belt 25 m from the shore zone, the Co-operation Administration has not drawn the open-air message and there is also an answer to the question. The second question is related to municipal exemption. The Ministry of the Environment, under my direction, has now given notice that the county councillors should follow closely with regard to the matters being dealt with, and also exercise the State's right of objection if it is contrary to the intentions. This is an intrusion. In relation to the exact proposal to limit municipal dispensation, my answer is in line with the first answer I gave, that there is a proposal from the Plan Law Committee on this. It has the Government for treatment, and I will come back to Stortinget in the spring in a suitable form with a proposition and with the Government's conclusions in relation to that partial position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-14.ana.ud571e1931	Case No. 1 on the current map has thus been completed.
