ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e29	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e34	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e39	Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as chairmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e60	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Jørgen Kosmo State Council Tore Tønne State Council Hanne Harlem The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e79	I have questions for the Minister of Justice. Due to the fact that the majority of the population and governments have not listened to the warnings and proposals of the Progress Party for many years, the result is the expected increase in crime, among others. in thread crime and in open conflict with firearms in Oslo. The Joint Police Association has now made the following demands: Several cars in Oslo must be equipped with firearms. The weapons must be stored inside the cars, so that officials can quickly arm themselves when dangerous situations arise. Police have to get cars secured against shots, so-called half armored cars. Several officials must enter operational duties. It should be debated whether each official should be given his personal weapon. Will the Minister of Justice confirm that, in particular, the demand for weapons in the cabins will be met immediately, so that no more policemen are put at risk of life – by the end of the next week? Will the other demands be met during at least February, so that we can now end up fighting the police against growing crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e90	I do not agree with Mr. Hagen's description that the crime scene would have been different if Carl I. Hagen's proposal had been given a majority here in Stortinget. Then we had e.g. has not had the amount of prevention work that we have in Oslo today. A number of the prevention projects in Oslo are taking place despite the votes of Carl I Hagen and his party here in Stortinget. I'll show you, for example. to the grants for metropolitan actions. With regard to the issue of police access to weapons, my position and that of the Government is that Norway should not be in favour of a general armament of the Norwegian police. The reason for this is that what we know from comparative studies, for example: in Sweden, there are much more injured and much more shooting episodes in a country that has general weapons, a country that we can compare with in many other areas, namely Sweden. And then the solution is not to go to general armaments of the Norwegian police. With regard to the specific questions about the location of the weapons, what kind of weapons the police should have, etc., I believe that the police director and the police community have to talk about how we can do the best we can. And the fact that there should be easy access to weapons for the police in an emergency situation is a matter of course. When the weapons today are not always in the cabins, they have, among other things, purely practical reasons. The more practical organisation of how the weapons are, I don't think that is primarily a political issue; it's a question of how best to organise it. I fully support the best practical solutions for the police, but there must be a threshold for the police to arm themselves in situations, otherwise we will move to a general armed police force in Norway, and that is not in the police's interest in the security of police officers or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e99	Let me first say that I'm a little surprised by the growing practice that state councils and prime ministers instead of answering questions in a question hour are attacking those who ask, for completely different things than what is involved in the question. We have proven the outcome of the Labour Party's and other parties' criminal policies. It is a quite remarkable claim without any basis when the Council of State claims that the policy of the Progress Party would lead to other things. We've been with the police for a long number of years. The result of not having listened and not having followed up on strengthening the police, more criminal regulations, etc., we see today. That is the result of the policies of the Labour Party and the other parties. Is it so to understand that the Council of State and the Government will acknowledge that you get guns in everyone, or more, police cars in Oslo, and that they're in the cabin? I would like an answer to that question. Is it completed with approval of the Government within a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e108	All uniformed police cars in Oslo today have guns in the car. I have recently, not later than an hour ago, been confirmed by the police chief in Oslo. As to the question of the location of the weapons in the car, exactly where the weapons are, there is something the police in Oslo do not want a public discussion about. But if it is the case that the police find better and more practical places to have the weapons placed in the car, e.g. in the passenger compartment, the Government shall not prevent it – of course not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e115	There will be follow-up questions – Tor Nymo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e118	The accelerating development of crime and violence in Oslo, which we have recorded recently, cannot be accepted. In the Justice Committee and in the UK otherwise, we have focused very much on what is happening here in Oslo, and we have also given resources to Oslo, especially to have financial freedom to do something about this development. We continue to see that violence is getting rougher, and that the use of weapons is actually almost daily. I have a small feeling that from the political point of view in the Ministry of Justice, there has been a slight backlog in terms of implementing measures to match the developments we are in. [[President clubs]] You can see that there are more and more weapons being used, and these are weapons being imported into the country. [[The President Clubs Again]] My question is, what does it do, for example? The Minister of Justice to stop the ever-increasing introduction of weapons? [[The President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e125	The President notes that speaking time is limited to 1 minute, and the representative is now in arrears.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e129	It must be a police task to investigate, intelligence and then to seize weapons illegally introduced into Norway. There is also a task done by the police, but I think the police can intensify their efforts in terms of the search for and seizure of weapons. In my conversation with the police chief in Oslo today, it was confirmed that it is a task for the police to intensify – also in cooperation with the Customs Directorate – the search for smuggled weapons. The problem with the smuggling of weapons is that a weapon can be dismantled in tiny pieces, so it is completely unrecognizable, and then it is not always so easy to find weapons when you try to find them in connection with a smuggling situation. The other thing the police asked for, and as the government is going to follow up, was that you had to look at the access to search for weapons and make it easier to search for weapons. The size decision was taken a year ago in respect of a new post-weapon visitation. [[President clubs]] We're going to review the search warrants to see if it's possible to further increase the possibility of looking for illegal weapons. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e138	The President will also remember speaking time limitations for state councils. There will be follow-up questions – Kristin Krohn Devold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e143	In the last three years, we have passed several laws and put in place several measures to bring about a return to crime. The problem is that it doesn't always seem like it's being followed up in practice in the field of politics. The Killangrene promised, among other things, to follow the case and bring cases before the courts at a high rate. The announcement sent out by the police in connection with the last shooting episodes showed a long record of sins for the wanted, and the natural question that people are asking is: Why aren't these with these sin records inside? And my question to the Minister of Justice is: can the Minister of Justice promise us a statement in the Grand Duchy about what has actually been done in practice to bring about the recrime crime, after the Grand Duchy has adopted both increased access to the search for weapons, more policemen on the streets of Oslo and a rapid court at Oslo City Law to deal with especially juvenile criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e150	If Stortinget asks for a statement on this, I will, of course, give it. Much has been done in practice, but of course it is possible to do more. One of the things that we're most concerned about, and that I understand the representative Krohn Devold is asking in his question, is the speed of criminal proceedings, and that's the most important area to focus on for the Justice Department and the police. There has to be a much faster pace from a criminal offence to a prison sentence. It takes too much time today, but we're on the right track. There has been a reduction in the processing time in the last year, so we're going in the right direction. The Oslo Police Chamber has its strategy of following those who are known to be members of the criminal environment. The State Attorney in Oslo has a project of his own to follow these. There's a lot of people in there, but there's too many people out there, and the proceedings take too much time. I agree with that without further delay, and that is the thing that I believe the Norwegian police must have the greatest focus on until we get the processing time down to a suitable level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e161	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e164	We in SV fully agree with the Minister of Justice when she rejects the party lead, a prescription that does not work at all. When combating crime, we have to run on two tracks at once, the prevention and the long-term aspect, and then control and repair, the acute here and now aspect. And then it is a paradox that in 1993 the appropriations for children and young people were 9 pst. higher than the appropriations made available to the police, while in 2001 the appropriations made available to the police are 13,5 pst. higher than the appropriations allocated to children and young people. In this regard, I have a question: does this not mean that while we enable the police to fight crime, we have to think far tougher about prevention? Does it not also mean that the seas of a attractor of all the world's action to the police, but does not prevent, will one not have the chance to combat crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e171	I can answer this very easily. I can answer yes. But let me add one thing: I think the increase in the resources of the police that has happened in the 1990s has been quite correct and absolutely necessary. The figures the representative describes, I can't deal with, but it's awfully important to do something about prevention and preventing recruitment to the criminal environments, I totally agree. The size of the population dealt with an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency in June. What we are also working on in the Government is moving on to the part that goes on the reaction side, namely that children and young people — even under 15 years of age — have to face reactions when they do something wrong. It doesn't work well enough today, and we'll come back to that in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e178	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e181	I am also concerned about the security of policemen and that in the necessary situations they will have access to weapons. But when serious events happen, a common impression is that there has never been political debate in the same area before. But we had a review of police security in the spring of 1999 – even when it was about weapons. The current Minister of Justice of the Central Government concluded that there was no need to change the legislation. It was pointed out that there was and is an opportunity to store weapons in a police car, and that storage/use is determined by the local police chief, who knows the need best. And it was informed that it was roughly 100 pst. coverage with regard to the delivery of each operational official’s own weapon. I just want to confirm whether the situation is as described by the then Minister of Justice of the Central Government, or whether something has changed significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e190	The situation is about the same today. Nevertheless, when I said in my reply to Mr. Hagen that we are of course discussing routines, it is because when the police ask to discuss the specific routines, we are of course open to it to see if we can do things better and easier. But the principle must be clearly established. There shall be a threshold before the police arm themselves, and we shall have no general armament of the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e197	Jørn L. Stang – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e201	I noted that the Council of State spoke about the interests of the representative Hagen. And it is well established here that the Council of State once again and in line with its party trap when we discussed the security of police officers, emphasizes the security of criminal elements more than the security of the police and the environment. It seems like it's been fixed once again by the Minister of Justice. I would like to ask whether the Minister of Justice is not aware of what is happening in Norway in terms of criminal elements from abroad and organised crime. Isn't the attitude of the Council of State an invited to criminal elements from abroad that here it is so good to provide, because here you meet a police without the necessary power and the means to stop organized crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e208	I think the answer to that is no. The Oslo police armed themselves 500 times last year, so it's not that the police have no access to weapons or can't use weapons in the situations they need it. The question is, should they wear guns all the time? But what we know from comparative studies – and now it's possible I repeat myself – is that shooting episodes and the total number of injured, and then I'm not necessarily talking about injured criminals, are much higher in our neighboring country than here. And it's at least as much the security of the police as I'm the Council of State worry about when I say we're not going to have a general weapon of the Norwegian police. I think the security of the police can be so much in danger if we have a general weapon of the Norwegian police, because it will easily lead to a escalation and a spiral effect in the use of weapons between the police and criminal environments. If criminal environments know that the police have a common weapon, so is the danger of their being regularly armed the greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e217	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e220	The Council of State and I share the view that we should not have the general armament of the Norwegian police. But then it is all the more important that the police are prepared for the situations in which the use of weapons is relevant. I would therefore like to ask the State Council here to confirm that it is now the basis for police officers to have their personal handgun, and that they have a training in relation to this which is adequate for the situation, and that it is assessed especially in relation to the Oslo police district, so that you know that the training is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e225	All the police in Oslo – at least those who go patrol – have their own personal weapon. They're still going to have that, and they're going to have to have practice. And again, the police officer in Oslo confirmed this morning at the latest that they believe that the training the police in Oslo get is good. There is some reason why there has been no shooting from the police in Oslo since 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e232	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e235	I was actually going to ask questions in the same ladder, but I refuse it because I think it should now be more important for the council to concentrate on getting the criminal environments disarmed than being concerned about what ways to continue in a arms race. I will therefore draw attention to what is happening in traffic. Each year, according to Dagbladet on December 7, 1999, about 40 drivers are judged for negligent killing. It was also claimed that legions as co-judges in other such cases are strongly influenced by the guidance of the disciplines – yes, so strongly that they actually feel pressured to go from acquittal to conviction. There is dramatic information, and the reason for a question of quality assurance of our judicial system. It has been decided on a number of things to be implemented. The information brochure is to be improved, information films are to be made, and the department should take a closer look at the selection procedures for the co-judgments. What is done, and is the Minister of Justice satisfied with today's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e244	The representative started with a careless frame rap, so I was about to answer it in my head. What the representative is asking is the co-judgment, as I understand it. In general, I believe that the co-judgment we have in Norway is good and correct. That department is working on, and we're aiming to get it done so that it can also be dealt with in the Storting before the next appointment of co-judges, is a review of the whole system of homework, the selection procedures, etc. related to this, with the aim of promoting any changes to the Storting, so that they can take effect before the next municipal elections, which is the time when new judges are appointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e251	Information has been obtained that is partly dramatic, for example: in a photocopier case, the following is claimed by two of the co-judgments: we were going to go for acquittal, but professionals say that if we do, he will get a more stringent judgment in the next court. Does the Council of State feel that this is helping to strengthen the democratic side of our legal system, and that legal certainty is being safeguarded in this way? Will this be taken into account in the procedure that the Council of State has now described that you are working with, or will you continue to do so now, but with some improvements of some kind? The main content of the question is: does today's co-judgment system work so that we can be sure that it is worthy of our rule of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e256	I'll give you a two-sided answer to that. If it is that fellow judges feel pressured in a situation to take a different position on the guilt issue within the law that applies, than what they themselves feel is right, I agree that it is wrong, and that should not be the case. But I also think we need to be aware that when in some cases co-judges do not want to judge, it may be because there is something wrong with the law, and that the legal certainty of the co-judges suggests that this should not have been punished. Then there is a problem for the Stortinget to see if the law is right. I don't ignore the fact that one of the issues in a case of photocopies is that the co-judgments, or the juries in the past, feel that punishing someone for something that they have done many times is heavy, and that they react with it, while the judicial judge says that this is the law, and if you think that and that has happened, it is negligent according to the law, and therefore it should be a judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e263	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e267	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. In the last three years, the size has adopted a number of measures to speed up criminal proceedings: it should be easier to use the custody of repeaters, it should be speedily, even with the use of a rapid court, and it should be immediately after judgment. Nevertheless, the simple examples illustrate to us whether practice is what the Storting wanted. In the summer of 1998, a man was brutally killed in the center of Oslo. Still the killer goes free, he's convicted, but he's not yet called to atoning. It's starting to approach three years ago. My questions to the Minister of Justice are: Can you see that this makes the situation for the relatives even heavier, and that it breaks down people's sense of justice? And will you make sure that for the future you are transferred directly from judgment to atonement in such gross acts of violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e276	You don't have to go to single examples to get upset about the time it takes from the time it's committed a criminal act, and until the reaction comes. You can just look at the cold, clear speech of the numbers to get upset about it. It takes too much time, and we have to be able to work down that time. That's why it's very good that biging and government work together so intensely with what we're doing. Fortunately, it's going in the right direction. The average duration of proceedings has fallen markedly during the course of 2000 and the number of stays has also been considerably reduced in the course of the last year. We're going in the right direction, but there's more than a hundred thousand cases in the Norwegian police on the way through the stream, and so, unfortunately, it's not that we can only adopt shorter criminal proceedings. We have to do all the little things together that we're doing right now, whether there's a new criminal code or a change of laws. There is now a consultation note outlining proposals for a number of legislative changes aimed at reducing the time of criminal proceedings, and a course has been set for prosecutors to improve the procedures for dealing with this. I believe the representative Krohn Devold and I fully agree that it is a very central task to bring down the processing time, and it will not take as long as we see both in general and in a number of individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e283	It is important to place an executive responsibility with the Minister of Justice. We don't need a course or a change of laws to ensure that people who have a rightful sentence are actually sent to atoning. In autumn 1998, almost two and a half years ago, the Stortinget said that it would take a maximum of two months from judgment to atonement. The Right Party and the Advance Party suggested that this should happen immediately. We also said in the Justice Committee in November this year that if it was the prison capacity that was the problem, there were even more doubles on the cells than what is happening today. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Can you promise me a review of all the judicial judges for violence that has fallen, to ensure that sentences will in future be called to a settlement within the limit set by the Stortinget in October 1998?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e292	The President asks to speak to the Minister, and not in another – let us say – private form.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e295	I'm sorry, President. I let my feelings run away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e300	The President can't do anything about it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e305	If I should have any reason to believe that a review of the just judgments will lead to that one being able to get those sentences into awe before you can do it today, I'll do it. The most important thing, though, is that we have enough prison places to get people settled at the rate we want. I fully agree with Mr Devold that this should be done as soon as possible and that the deadline of two months should be met. We're going to want to double to the extent that it's reasonable in each case, and there's a doubling in cells today just to get the reconciliation queue out of here. But the challenge today is that we do not have so many prisons, especially in the eastern part of the country, as we should wish, and that is why today there is more queue than it should be. We're trying to bring it down, but some of it's just about building new prisons, and unfortunately I don't have a magic wand to get new prisons up to zero comma nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e313	I want to address a question to the Minister of Health. In November, the Stortinget, all parties except the Workers' Party, granted DKK 1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. After the Stortinget decided to grant the money, it was discovered from a number of teams that there is a residual capacity for treatment in Norway that stands unused; there has been a letter from the manager of the Norwegian Orthopedic Association, enquiries from Martina Hansen Hospital and also from smaller hospitals, such as the hospital in Mo in Rana, the Red Cross Clinic, etc. This means that some of the interventions now taking place abroad could probably have been much more reasonable in Norway and less burdensome for patients. I want to ask the Minister of Health whether he sees that the funds can be used in an economically more cost-effective way, and more focused on patients, by using at least part of this sum in Norway instead of sending patients abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e322	I see that decision taken at the time by the majority in Stortinget, as a decision to use up to NOK 1 billion to finance the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad. It is clear from the decision taken that, as Minister of Health, I do not have the power now to re-disposal the funds for similar patient treatment in Norway. I want to add that I think, when it is now pointed out that it has become known that there is capacity available also at Norwegian treatment institutions, that it must have been well known for a long time that this is the situation. We have pointed out for a long time that the problem is to a large extent to organise the activities of the Norwegian hospital system in such a way that we get to use the capacity – that is not the situation today. But it's a different question than that of patient treatment abroad. I would also like to add that when it is now pointed out that there are examples that this could be made more reasonable, my opinion is that when the Stortinget made its decision, the cost side, or for that part the price question for the individual types of treatment, was not a topic. But I repeat: I do not have the power to redeploy the billion Stortinget allocated to financing treatment abroad, to similar treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e331	I believe that the Minister of Health is bypassing the whole question, because I ask whether the Minister of Health wants this type of mandate. Does the Minister of Health think that it would be a sensible use of resources targeted at using some of these funds against Norwegian hospitals, which are likely to carry out treatment much more reasonably than could be done abroad? And so until now, the Minister of Health has not answered those questions, despite the fact that he has been asked those questions a number of times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e337	I believe the question that the representative of Ballo here raises is a different question than re-disposaling the billion that the Stortinget has granted for that purpose, namely, patient treatment abroad. Another question is whether, in addition to what Stortinget decided to grant patient treatment in Norway during the treatment of the State budget in the autumn, we should now go in to spend even more money on this treatment. It's a question you might want to raise, but it's a completely different question than the question of using the billion that the Stortinge has granted for this purpose abroad. It is not the case now that there is a lack of money as such as is the question in this context. And if it were to be so that the Storting now comes to a different conclusion than what was the conclusion a few months ago when dealing with this matter, in case you have to collect the funding elsewhere than to take off the billion allocated for this particular purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e344	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e347	I think most of us in this room have known that if more money had been spent, there would be capacity in the Norwegian health care system, both in private clinics and in hospitals, to expand the time for operations and that bit there. Some members of the Labour Party of the Social Committee have expressed their views, among others: that part of this billion should perhaps be used domestically. I would therefore ask the Minister of Health to confirm, or cancel, whether it is the case that this money is to be spent abroad, as the proposal is based on, or whether the Labour Party is also considering changing its position afterwards. This has been decided by the size of the population because the majority of the population did not want to increase the appropriations allocated to the Norwegian health care system in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e354	The decision taken by the Stortinget on this matter was taken against the votes of the Workers' Party and towards the Board of Government, not because we were in any way opposed to treatment abroad, but because we thought the matter should be investigated in a different way, and presented to the Storinget and seen in connection with the budgets elsewhere. Once it has been adopted, I see it as my task as Minister of Health to implement this decision as effectively as possible and in accordance with the Stortingen's assumption that the funds will be used to finance the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad. Then I have to say again: it may well be that you want to discuss the question of whether, in addition to what has already been granted patient treatment in Norway for the current year, NOK 37-38 billion, you think it is right to grant more, but I think that is another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e361	Are Nose – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e364	The rationale for the Storting decision was twofold: a lack of capacity in Norway, an assumption of a lack of capacity in any case, and a budget balance. If it turns out that one can ignore these two conditions, and considering that sending patients abroad means that we also export medical expertise and experience and that we import some multi-resistant bacteria, will the Minister of Health agree with me that there are no health policy benefits of using these funds for the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad rather than in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e369	I believe, first of all, that one cannot simply ignore the assumptions that were so strongly advanced at the time the Stortinget made its decision. I also do not believe that this is an export of medical competence from Norway. If we put this up in the future in the way that we initially had as our intention, I would rather say that we will link it up with a cooperation with professional environments abroad that could also involve the introduction of medical competence to Norway. The problem of infection is serious and needs to be addressed then, but I have so much reason to believe that with the extent and the organisation that this business will receive, you will be able to handle it. However, as I said, although more information has now been provided on the lack of capacity utilisation in Norway — perhaps one of the most immediate effects of this allocation is that it has become so clear — I believe that, despite the fact that it will still be in the situation that it will be appropriate to treat Norwegian patients abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e376	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e379	The Health Minister and I have communicated on this matter for a while per. letters. I am a little surprised at the health minister's point of view today, but we can well agree that at least this billion that was granted has triggered a better overview of the capacity situation in Norwegian health care and hospital treatment. It is true that the Minister of Health does not have a mandate to use this billion domestically today. But it is clear that it is up to the Storting to change the mandate, and it is also up to the Minister of Health to take initiatives to trigger more resources or try to make the Storting change its mandate. The money has to be taken into account by both parties, but the main responsibility for health is the Minister of Health. And I would like to ask the Minister of Health: is it not that the patient's concern should weigh more heavily in this situation? It is likely that treatment will be beneficial in Norway in most cases. The quality of health treatment is highest here and the risk of treatment abroad is relatively high. Will the Minister for Health use his right of initiative to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e388	The President reminds us again of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e391	There should be no doubt that there is consideration for patients who weigh the most, and that is really the only consideration that matters in this context. I also believe that those who made the decision in Stortinget at the time made it based on the best intentions in terms of treatment and treatment capacity for Norwegian patients. I have no reason to doubt that, even though the decision was against the Board of Government and the Labour Party's votes. However, I still believe that it is right for Norway under certain conditions to take advantage of opportunities to attract skills and capacity abroad when it benefits Norwegian patients – and that is what we want to do. The majority took this decision without the initiative of the Government and the Minister of Health. Of course, the size also has the opportunity to change its own decision, but I have to see it as my task to implement that decision and also to implement the measures necessary to increase treatment capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e399	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e402	This round of questions, which in many ways is a reprisal on a similar round of questions a week ago — at that time the Prime Minister answered the same questions correctly — may be updating the question of whether to introduce a new spontaneous Question Time where the Storting can ask itself questions, rather than re-addressing them via a State Council. But it is useful, and I understand the Council of State so that he agrees that this billion-dollar allocation is well spent money if it has come up with the truth about the available capacity of the Norwegian health service. My question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State come so far that he has made clear his thoughts on how to take advantage of the message that is now coming from our Norwegian health institutions about available capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e409	First of all, I have to agree that some of the questions that have been asked, I feel that I myself also partly have to return to Stortinget. I also have to say that I believe that I would grant NOK 1 billion for the purpose of obtaining information about the available capacity, I would not characterise as well spent money. But what I said was that one of the first effects of the allocation was perhaps that there was a lot more information about available capacity than what was at least given in the form before. And then I repeat that I think it was probably known to most people who are dealing with these issues, that the problem in the Norwegian hospital system is probably so much to get to an effective organisation and thus to use the capacity as it is a matter of adding more money to get more treated. In this way, I can also confirm that we are still working on further measures to see how we can make better use of the capacity that has been announced recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e416	At least the allocated speaking time is used properly. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e421	I would also like to ask the Minister of Health about a completely different topic. It is now raging a debate on the problem of jealousy in most European countries, and there is considerable concern among consumers in most countries about this disease. There are only four countries in Europe that have so far not been able to detect infection by jealousy, and not least because we have skilled professionals who have been restrictive, Norway is considered to be one of the safest countries in this way. The risk of infection in this country is therefore very small. However, despite the fact that we have a safe animal health status and food, we continue to import live animals from countries that have already been infected, where some EU countries have asked to be allowed to introduce import bans. As responsible for public health, does the Council of State feel comfortable with the measures we have taken to safeguard the precautionary principle in relation to possible imports of infectious agents?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e430	First, I have to make it clear that the measures and supervision involved in the import of live animals are not under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, and that I cannot say anything about it except that, based on what I am informed about how that control is handled, I feel comfortable with the safety of what is done. My concerns in this context relate to the control of food products marketed in Norway. It is a control carried out on the basis of food law and under the supervision of the State Food Authority. And it is clear that, not least in the light of what has now been seen in other countries in Europe, there has been every reason to review this in order to ensure that we have a oversight and a vigilance that the situation warrants. In this respect, I can answer that I feel comfortable with the way this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e437	Professionals recommend import bans and claim that there are no safe methods of analysis, no methods to detect the presence of infectious agents on imported animals, or for the part where imported meat contains bovine infection. So despite the technical advice, the government has chosen to maintain imports of both live animals and meat. Accordingly, the risk of the presence of infectious agents in Norwegian food or in food sold on the Norwegian market by imported animals is also present according to the professionals. As responsible for public health, the Council of State has a separate responsibility for carrying out assessments in relation to that risk. Does the State Council still consider that the precautionary principle is sufficiently at the bottom of the policy pursued when it is claimed by professionals that infectious agents cannot be excluded from the meat present in the shops in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e444	My answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e449	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e452	On a case-by-case basis, this government overlooks the health advice – it happened when the food make-up directives, it happens in this case – and not only the health advice, but also what is said by the consumer organisations, which went against the approval of the food make-up directives, and which now advises not to import live animals or products into Norway, and that applies on a Nordic basis. In other countries, EU members take unilateral security measures across the EU. In Norway, we are committed to one-sided EU adaptation, regardless of health advice. We don't know too much about the path of infection in the case of cow disease, and about the success of the tests. It was confirmed not later than yesterday when the Committee was at the Veterinary Institute. Imports of live bovine animals and meat may be imports of infection, it is also said from there. Why should we stand out so much from EU members in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e461	I understand that the question – if I understood it correctly – is why we need to separate so much from the EU countries in this area. It is clear that in a number of areas we are acting in Norway different from the EU countries do, and in this respect, it is also the representative of Lund, in some cases at least, who believes that we should act differently. What I am emphasising in this regard is that we ensure that we have food controls in our country that are in accordance with the legislation that the Stortinget has established and that adequately safeguard the risk factors that have been assessed here. I believe we are doing that in this case, and I say that regardless of whether we can behave differently from the European Union in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e471	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e474	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has issued a consultation note on the state acquisition of the specialist health service, and the Progress Party must praise the Minister of Health for much of the content of that note. What surprises me is that when I go through the note, it is quite clear that in the case of the care of ruscows carried out in the individual county, this will remain with the county council and thus not receive the same follow-up from the state as the other health services will receive. When dealing with this matter, will the Council of State also consider including care in the state acquisition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e483	Once again, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e488	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave there. It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State is also concerned with the same thoughts that I signed – that it is now important for us to have this area worked together. Norway is, after all, the nation of Europe now that has decidated the highest figures when, among other things, it is the United Kingdom. overdoses. My question to the Minister of Health in this regard is: Does the Minister of Health have any thoughts and views about this, so that, in the event of a state takeover, we can take action to better address the issue in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e495	I could also say yes here – as far as I have any thoughts about it. I have to take the reservation that in that case I would go into the responsibility of another Council of State, namely the Minister of Social Affairs. I would prefer to have the opportunity to go through these issues with the Social Minister, and I point out that there are also questions that we might come back to the Stortinget with in connection with the proposition that we are preparing for the state responsibility for the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e500	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e503	It is interesting to be involved in putting in place the pieces of this puzzle called state enterprises and state responsibility for the health sector. However, the health sector is closely related to the social sector, and that is also what emerged from Nesvik’s questions. And the Minister of Health confirmed that the state will take care of the drug. But then we have a very clear link between care and family protection/child protection. I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following additional questions: What will the Minister of Health do with this, which is so closely related to the first-line service and municipal care? Will child protection and family protection now be fully taken over by the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e510	First of all, I would like to make reservations as to whether I should have confirmed that the State will take responsibility for the care of Russo. But what I confirm clearly is that as part of the work we are doing now, and also in the light of the feedback we receive from the consultation round, we will also consider that question. I am aware of the issues raised by the representative in the area of child protection/family protection, which are, in part, a difficult border area today. It is, whether it is the county councils or it is the state that has ownership responsibility in the specialist health service. The fact that the State would, if necessary, assume ownership of the specialist health service does not in itself give rise to a clarification of these issues. But I believe there are questions that in any case require clarification, and look forward to coming back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e517	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e520	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. I want to refer to the VG from Monday 22 January, where I can read that a number of bleeders have been treated with hepatitis C during treatment in Norwegian hospitals. In dealing with the matter of compensation, the Health Inspectorate of the State Department, in the light of thorough medical evaluations, has recommended a replacement sum for the individual. My amazement was great when I read that the Ministry of Justice has tried out the State Health Authority and has set aside significantly lower compensation amounts to the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Cheapness Compensation, which takes the final decision. My question to the Minister of Justice will then be: Does the Council of State believe that the Ministry of Justice has the expertise to enable it to review the State Health Authority, which is an independent professional body?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e529	In this context, the Ministry of Justice is the Secretariat of the Grand Duchy's Committee on Cheapness Compensation and is thus fully subject to the Grand Duchy's own arrangements, and is therefore not part of the responsibilities of the Council of State and the Government in this respect. It is the Grand Duchy's lavish substitute committee that also takes a decision on the amount of compensation to be paid. What I know about this matter more specifically is that the recommendation given by the Secretariat of the Committee on Billing Replacements to the Committee on Billing Replacements is based on an assessment of the previous decisions The Committee on Billing Replacements, and insofar as the Storting itself in connection with the complaint, has taken on board and provided compensation in similar or similar cases. Besides, I don't have much to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e537	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This question is not just about jus, so my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health. It is reassuring that healthcare now has treatments to ensure that all blood products are free from hepatitis C virus. Many bleeders often have additional diagnoses, and getting infected with hepatitis C is a major extra strain on these. Money does not return health, but can make everyday life easier for the 100 that are infected. How does the Minister of Health view that the professional body, which is the State Health Authority, is being tested by the Ministry of Justice in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e548	I have got a follow-up question to a matter that I must be open and say that on the move I do not feel comfortable answering. I do not know the matter so well that I can give an adequate answer. I therefore ask to get back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e553	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e556	My question goes to the Minister of Health, and concerns the treatment capacity of our hospitals. For the right, the starting point is that when there is no capacity in public hospitals in Norway, patients should be able to take the money with them to private hospitals or to treatment abroad. The most important thing is that patients receive treatment. That's why we also supported the use of one billion. There are clearly opportunities for Norwegian hospitals to treat more than they do today. A look-up in the VG last week shows that surgeons only spend four hours each week on surgery. There's a waste of medical competence and labour, and it's the patients who lose it. I agree that better organisation and a state responsibility for hospitals are one step on the way, but it is also necessary to look at how hospitals get paid for what they do. Today they are paid for each patient, and it will pay off for the hospitals to treat more people. Will the Minister of Health consider increasing the proportion of hospital prices so that treatment capacity can be released and patients in line with faster treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e569	I stress as often as I can that I believe a better use of the capacity of Norwegian hospitals and treatment institutions is not primarily questions of more money, but questions about how we organise the business, so that we get more out of the large amounts put into the service. And I think it's typical when the representative here refers to examples where surgeons operate relatively few hours a week. It is very much a matter of organisation and management in hospitals, and I think more than that there is a question of more money. So you can say – and I don't think there is much disagreement – that there will always be improvement opportunities in the funding systems we have. There I can also confirm that I believe that the systems we have should be subject to ongoing assessment. There is a dynamic in this which makes it impossible to define a funding scheme once and for all. In particular, treatment methods and cost factors develop, making it quite natural that these issues are being evaluated on an ongoing basis. Then you also have to take into account that you cannot change all the time, because that is at the expense of predictability for those who are planning their business. I believe that in the future we will also have a funding system based on a combination of framework funding and input-driven financing. The input-driven funding, the ISF, needs to be reviewed first and foremost with regard to the underlying DRG system and its rates. That's where maybe the biggest problems lie today. In this context, however, it is natural to consider the proportion of the costs to be financed by the ISF and the amount of the framework funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e578	I agree that a review is necessary, and I am also pleased that the Minister of Health sees it this way. The right has proposed to increase the percentage of the price and let the money accompany the patient directly to the hospital, and do not take the road to the county council. In Akershus we now have a situation where the state funds that were to go to the hospitals for completed treatment, nearly 80 million. kr, has been messed up in the county municipality. It was money that was going to treat even more patients. This is unacceptable. My question to the Minister of Health is whether he does not see the bad thing about the money going to the county or to the new health regional businesses, as the Minister of Health has now suggested. Instead, should they not go directly to the hospitals that treat the patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e587	I believe that there should be the shortest possible distance between those who make the effort and, in this way, the results, and those who pay for the efforts made and the results achieved. It's an important and, in my opinion, correct principle. I also believe that the proposals we are now working on for a comprehensive reform of the hospital sector will lead to a shorter distance and a more direct link between efforts and results and funding. I think that's the way we should go, and I don't think – in all circumstances taken into account – that it's a more appropriate way to make an indirect way with the funds through the patient than making indirect ways through others. I believe that funding should go as far as possible directly to those who carry out the assigned tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e592	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e595	I note that the Minister of Health has said over and over again that it is not primarily questions of more money, but of better organisation, and I fully agree with the Minister of Health. And then back to this billion, which also Sonja Irene Sjøli had in mind: the point here is that that money is just allocated, while the Minister of Health is talking about, is that to the extent that you have to use the extra capacity, it should be via an extra allocation. It's completely illogical, it's the opposite of what the Minister of Health says he wants, namely to use existing funds in the best possible way. What, then, is the Minister of Health's reason for not wanting to use this billion as best he can?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e602	I mean, of course, to use that billion in the best possible way, and I also mean to want to use it in accordance with the assumptions the Storting has made for it. Thus, the Storting has also decided that the next year, additional resources will be used for patient treatment in Norway. I am not a stranger to go into a discussion about whether additional money is to be allocated to hospitals in Norway. That's not what I've said in this, I've said that I think it's as important now to do something about the organization as it is to give even more money. But it may well be that it's time to grant even more money in the current year. But in that case, the question that I think you have to be able to decide completely regardless of whether it has already been granted NOK 1 billion for treatment abroad. I think that is two completely separate questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e609	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e613	Health policy is full of paradoxes, and the population is asking a lot of questions as politicians are discussing things that the few understand. The paradox is that we have Europe's best medical coverage, we have an input that is the same size as in other European countries, while at the same time we have the longest queues on many planned health services. These are paradoxes that people don't understand. So we have the longest health cows, and there people are standing quite calm and still for quite a long time, to the extent that they are able to stand. Can the Council of State explain to the Norwegian people and the Grand Council how in all the world's kingdom it may have evolved in this country that people do not accept to wait a month for the car to be repaired for a casco damage, with a great deal of self-interest, while waiting patiently in line for up to 12–15 months for a health service to be paid after paying taxes and a people's money tax for decades? Is the Workers' Party based on the fact that patience should continue even when the Council of State assumes its financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e620	Governments have one minute to respond to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e623	Let me first say that there's a philosophical question when you're going to start wondering why a population seems to be more patient about standing in a health queue than about standing in a car repair queue. I don't know if I can give a reasonable answer to that, but at least I want to partially answer the second question. No, of course, we cannot rely on such patience – if the representative will call it – when it comes to standing in a health queue. I guess we see examples that it's not. I don't think that will last either, and I don't think it should last. That is why I am also so concerned that we need to get into a situation where we do not have these waiting times for treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e631	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e636	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the comprehensive overview that has just been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Defence, will be raised by the representative Anne Britt Stråtveit. Question 3, from the representative of Vidar Kleppe to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be raised by the representative of Terje Knudsen. Question 4, from the representative of Mr Stensaker to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered before question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Question 11, from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will direct him. Question 18, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 22, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e660	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: «The Old Town of Fredrikstad is the best-preserved garrison/festivities city in the Nordic region, and has been since 1644. The district is a historic gem and an important part of our cultural heritage. The Chief of Defense's plan is that the military unit should cease there. It is assumed that the Council of State sees what the consequences can be for the historic city that the Defence has contributed to building up, and in this respect the question is whether the Council of State has views on the post-use and responsibility for the military constructions in the Old Town?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e669	For many years, the defense has shown great interest in keeping Fredrikstad's fortress in Gamlebyen in a presentable condition. A large rise was made in the years 1991-1994, where the planning of the full, the laying of footpaths, the securing of the water front in the moat and the treatment of vegetation were carried out in this context. This was done to obtain the correct profiles and contours, which had subsequently been erased. The work was a major joint project between the municipality of Fredrikstad, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Defence. On the state side, 27 million were granted. kr to the project. The result was very good, and I agree with the representative, Stang, that the Old Town is a historic gem. A number of municipalities and military units across the country will be affected in the context of the current change in the defence system. The Chief of Defence has advanced his proposal to the Ministry of Defence. In the department, we are now working intensively to design a long-term proposition that we intend to promote for the Storting next month. I therefore do not think it right today to address the concrete organisational changes that will be proposed. In any case, it would be natural to refer to guidelines for the management of all types of property, construction and facilities for which the Defence will no longer need. This applies not least to old fastening works of national importance, where the State has a clear responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e678	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. That was clearly what was going on with buildings of national value, and that was really my main question, what to do with these buildings in Old Town. All 30 pst. of the buildings in the Old Town are military facilities, and it is not possible to stab under the chair that both those who live there and those who see the Old Town for tourist purposes are afraid of development overall. Since the defense has brought down 50 million. For the last ten years, I would like to ask the following question: Will he make sure to the Chief of Defense that he puts sufficient emphasis on his assessments and conclusions, just as the Minister of Defence was now in and out of his mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e685	I am a more frequent guest in the Old Town in Fredrikstad than the representative may be aware of, and I therefore fully agree with what has just been said, and in the representative's position as the basis for his question. The old town in Fredrikstad is a pearl we have to take care of. The measures to be taken depend on the decisions taken by the Stortinget concerning the location of Old Town and Fredrikstad in the future military structure. It is too early for me to comment on behalf of the Government, and probably too early for the Stortinget to comment on before you have seen the content of the proposition. However, in any case, there must be a national authority responsible for managing the cultural values contained in national fastening plants, whether in military use or not. And somehow it has to be dealt with in the proposition that is planned to be presented in mid-February, so that we can meet the important needs that the representative points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e692	I thank the Council of State for a very clear response so far. After all, we are all aware that there are strong cuts in the field of defence and that it will produce effects that the Old Town will also suffer. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister of Defense whether he believes that there should be any military activity in Fredrikstad. Since he's such a frequent guest there, he might have a feeling if it's important that the Army is there somehow. In addition, there are also some investment needs to be met when parts of the Army in the Old Town are to be transferred, including. to Rygge. Is this also seen in relation to total costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e697	It is allowed to ask — this is a question time — but it is also allowed not to answer. I do not respond to the substance in the long-term proposition that will be submitted to the Stortinget, as planned on 16 February, neither in relation to Fredrikstad nor anywhere else in the country. It would carry the wrong place if I saw if I were to distribute pieces of the answers without standing for a whole that the government is putting behind in a total proposition. So I must unfortunately disappoint the representative on that point – but he may have been aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e705	This question, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister of Defence, is raised by the representative Anne Britt Stråtveit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e708	The question goes to the Minister of Defence: ‘According to a report addressed by the Council of Europe Environment Committee on the environmental impact of the war in Yugoslavia, there has been a strong increase in the incidence of birth defects’ – there is likely to be birth defects – ‘in areas where depleted uranium has been used in bombs, both in southern Iraq and Bosnia. Why did the Minister of Defence not address this issue in his statement to the Stortinget on 18 January 2001 and will he base the precautionary principle on any further consideration of issues related to the use of depleted uranium in ammunition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e717	The report to which the representative refers is, as I understand it, a report presented by the Council of Europe's Environment Committee on 10 January this year on «Environmental impact of the war in Yugoslavia on the South-East Europe». The report – which I was not familiar with when I made my statement on 18 January – details the environmental consequences of the air war against Yugoslavia in the period from 24 March to 5. June 1999, including the pollution of air, water and soil as a result of the bombing of industrial installations and infrastructure. The report concerns the use of depleted uranium ammunition, but, as far as I can see, it does not contain any new documentation or information which is not previously known from other sources and which was the basis for my review of the statement last week. The report identifies pollution following the massive air campaign, emissions of jet exhaust and nitrogen oxide and pollution caused by the bombing of industry and oil installations, including: of 20 chemical and petrochemical plants, approximately 70 pst. of the oil refining capacity of Yugoslavia, 78 industrial plants and 42 power plants. Pollution of water and air as well as damage to landscapes, forests and soil are dedicated to more space in this report than the use of depleted uranium ammunition. The focus is on measures to reduce environmental damage, and the report points to the fact that these damage partially includes countries such as Albania, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and FYROM. The report, which, as I understand, is not final, has a broad perspective in its assessment of environmental damage in south-east Europe. I share this broad perspective. In my presentation on 18 January, I just stressed that, in addition to various types of pollution caused by the use of weapons in a former war zone, there are also pollutions caused by the destruction of civil infrastructure and industry. My point was that any link between health damage and service can lie in the combination of several relevant sources of pollution. An increase in the number of birth injuries in southern Iraq and Bosnia may have such an explanation, although at present we should not draw any bastant conclusions in any direction. So finally, the question of the precautionary principle. In my statement on 18 January, I stated that there is currently no military conflict that is up-to-date on the use of ammunition with depleted uranium. If so, it is my view that such ammunition should not be used as long as medical causality is not clarified. I also stated that this view would form the basis for the Norwegian position in NATO bodies, which might deal with the issue. I therefore believe that in my statement to the Stortinget on 18 January I have already answered confirmatoryly on the question the representative now asks on behalf of the representative Rise, namely the question of the position on the use of weapons with depleted uranium. Otherwise, I will follow developments in this matter carefully. Next week, I'm going to meet NATO Secretary-General, Lord Robertson. I would then like to address various aspects of the use of depleted uranium ammunition, including: the latest information that plutonium may be present in these grenades.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e735	I thank the Council of State for that answer. As far as I understand it, this matter is to be raised in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today, and so the issue of depleted uranium entering the ecological cycle, which can lead to chromosome damage and foetal harm, is to be debated. Given that, the precautionary principle is absolutely important. The council therefore had a somewhat narrow approach angle in its presentation and revolved around that particular part. Now the Storting will discuss this if not for too long. But I still have some questions: Will the Council of State ensure that those who have been in the area where depleted uranium has been used are also followed up in terms of fear of having children with harm to the unborn child? What kind of help and support can be expected if such damage proves to occur because of this? The government will probably see that this is a matter of follow-up for quite a long time. It is natural that young soldiers feel this now as it has been written so much about it, and have some fear of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e744	I do not fully share the characteristic that my response today or the presentation last week was ‘small’ in relation to the Council of Europe report. On the contrary, I said that there could be a broader cause behind any health problems than depleted uranium isolated. The fine thing about the Council of Europe's report is that it actually deals with a broader aspect than depleted uranium, and I therefore, as I said, agree with that in principle. It is very important that the wide range of health studies now being started, with professional input and advice from all the competent authorities in Norway, are as broad as possible, so that we do not check for anything that comes to zero, but then there may be something quite different that is wrong. Then we have abused a golden opportunity to get an overview. It is in the extension of this answer that we must, of course, also have an eye on the health aspects that the representative addresses in relation to birth defects, children, etc. The target must be as wide as possible to cover all potential adverse effects related to external environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e753	The Government and the Defence Manager have taken action and the ‘I know’ declarations to which it is addressed are good. The Council of State has also said that initiatives will be taken to ensure that adequate health examinations are carried out at the end of and one year after the completion of international service. Cancer can develop slowly, and foetal harm can occur in a long time. Does the Council of State think that it is sufficient, or should this staff be followed up over a longer period of time? As far as I know, personnel in the first quota of the Telemark Battalion in Kosovo are not yet personally informed of the investigations and measures undertaken to provide the security they need after all publicity in the media. Do the Council of State agree that it should have been? And what time perspective does he have on information about health studies for those who are uncertain about what is being done for them as individuals in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e763	The Defence Manager’s initiative is that a large number of staff who have served in international operations — around 18 000, probably since 1990/91 — are to be called to a wide-ranging investigation. I have no reason to criticize him for being slow there. I think there are medical reasons why the professional services now need to sit down thoroughly and be absolutely sure of what they are going to investigate, so that the design of the studies is as good as possible, rather than reacting on the day after to something that may not be a proper medical setup. I am fully open to the aspects that the representative addresses regarding the follow-up of this type of damage in particular, but there are also many other types of possible damage. When we then put so much resources into a broad study and other follow-up that we do – I refer to my statement – it is very important that all the professional bodies in Norway, the Cancer Register and everything else, who are now cooperating with the Defense Department on this, have the necessary input, so that they make the right decision. Otherwise, the studies can become pretty pro-forma. But we must follow up on the aspects raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e770	So we go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e776	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Salt power stations can be built in Sunndalsøra in a few years’ time. Researchers say that this energy source can increase Norwegian power generation by from 50 to 100 TWh. The government does not give priority to this option, but allows government companies among others to build more low-energy and highly impurity gas power plants. What is the reason why the Government controls or manages the alternatives that increase greenhouse gas emissions, when it knows the potential of the environmentally friendly alternatives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e785	Let me first thank the asker for once again giving me the chance to answer why the government thinks it is right to facilitate the construction of gas power plants in Norway. There are three main reasons for it: By building gas power plants in Norway, we are exploiting a Norwegian raw material here in the country, thus helping to increase the value of this raw material, a value increase that would alternatively occur abroad. Building gas power plants in Norway improves security of supply. In a normal year, we now use more power than we produce. The construction of gas power plants is the only realistic way to become self-sufficient. The option is to become increasingly dependent on imports of more impurising energy. Building gas power plants in Norway helps us reduce CO2 emissions in northern Europe. A number of research reports and expert bodies say that Norwegian gas power is most likely to replace coal power. There are therefore many good reasons to bet on gas power. But unlike Langeland, I do not see the contrast between it and efforts for new renewable energy sources. The government is well aware of the potential of the new renewable energy sources, and wants to focus on further development and their introduction. We are working concretely to achieve the goal of using 4 TWh more water-borne heat based on new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat and to build wind power plants that produce 3 TWh annually. These objectives will be achieved by 2010. We are also investing, through the Research Council, in research and development of new and environmentally friendly energy sources. Hydropower is such an energy source. I know that individual researchers in my saline power can have a potential of between 50 and 100 TWh. I think it is more realistic to base a technically expandable potential of 25 TWh, as is done in NOU 1998:11 "Energy and power balance against 2020". This number is based on an extension of the ten largest rivers in Norway. Whatever our potential, we know that realising the potential requires the development of new technologies, including: on the membrane side, and that it may take several decades before the technology becomes commercially available. We also know that there is an environment here in Norway that has great competence in salinity, and that a comprehensive research and development project has been launched on this in Norwegian. State power and SINTEF are included, in addition to some international actors. I can inform you that the Research Council has recently supported this project with 1.4 million kroner. kr for the current year, at the same time as they have promised a social benefit of 1.6 million. kr for 2002. One cannot therefore say that salt power is not prioritised in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e807	I thank you for your answer. It is no surprise that the Council of State takes time to confirm that one stands firm on the point of view that one has previously held, making the Labour Party – despondent – one of the environmental delays of the Storting, together with the Right and the Advance Party. There's no rumor, of which there's a lot of time, that now confirms the Council of State. What's one of the points of the question is simply state ownership, and what one wants with state ownership. Now, the Labour Party is going to give up the right to govern through the privatisation of Statoil. Here's another possibility through, for example. Natural forces and others to steer in a more environmentally friendly direction, but the Council of State does well to stick to the option that creates major environmental problems. So the problem is, what should the Labour Party now do to get out of the position they're in when it's dealing with the environmental sinking problem, in relation to the revised e.g.?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e816	If it is that this was a matter of state ownership, I just have to say I am sorry that I have then misunderstood the question. I thought this was about the benefits of gas power, and what we would have done on, among other things. this with salt power plants. I tried to answer that, and in my view, it's fine to combine these things. I'm also very pleased that the representative of Langeland is concerned about the image created by the Workers' Party, and would like to give us the opportunity to improve on it. But in my view, we have provided documentation that shows that our plans to facilitate gas power actually contribute to reducing CO2 emissions in the Nordic region. That's why it's going to be completely wrong for us, when we have that knowledge, now to withdraw it, even if this doesn't fit into SV's philosophy in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e823	In fact, in relation to state ownership, the Council of State – Government – uses state-owned companies to build energy-inefficient and highly polluting gas power plants, but does not use the right to control. That's why I thought the Council of State had seen it as part of the problem, but I take note that he didn't have it. The main problem, then, is to invest in the alternative renewable energy sources, salt power plant rates, solar and bioenergy rates, the focus onincreased measures and energy efficiency. It is clear that if one is to bet the most on gas power plants, it will be less on the other, and then the point for the environmental party SV is to work to get the Workers' Party on a course where they start thinking about more environment than they do. Then is the challenge for the Council of State: What is the main strategy for the future to avoid a focus on greenhouse gas-generating options?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e830	I believe that the representative of Langeland has either deliberately or for other reasons misunderstood his policy in this area. One does not want to focus more on the construction of gas power plants, but we want one to have the same possibilities in Norway as in other countries. When it comes to government intervention in the form of both financial means, attitude campaigns and other things, it is an asset of which, unlike gas power, there are other actors who have to bear the financial costs. There is no contrast between the desire to have the ability to build gas power plants in Norway and to use our energy more efficiently than we do today, and the desire to invest in new renewable energy sources. In connection with the energy message that was addressed last year, I think it became clear that the Labour Party wants an offensive policy to implement the new energy sources. We have also included it in the budget and in the cases before the Grand Duchy, which are now in the committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e835	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e841	This question, from Vidar Kleppe to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, will be raised by the representative Terje Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e844	On behalf of Mr Vidar Kleppe, my question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Maritime Director has recently indicated that he knows what is going on in order to ensure better coastal preparedness, but has failed to provide the public with knowledge of this. Does the Council of State have any opinion on what is to be done to ensure a better control of what is going on along the coast, so that in the future we can prevent accidents caused by vessels outside the Norwegian flag State control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e853	I agree with the representative Terje Knudsen that we should and must improve the control of ships sailing along our coast. It is true that the Maritime Directorate has made several proposals for action to improve coastal preparedness. The proposals and ideas submitted by the Maritime Director and the Maritime Directorate are not exempt from public disclosure. Security and preparedness along the Norwegian coast is a theme on which the Government is concerned. This concerns responsibilities under several government councils, and we have already gone into a discussion and work on measures so that we can present an overall package to the Stortinget, whether it will be a budgetary matter or otherwise. The areas we are now assessing are maritime surveillance, unloading services, the maintenance of the work on electronic navigational charts, to mention something. The latter is part of the Sleipner Commission's recommendations, which will be followed up by the Government in the near future. Furthermore, we consider an extension of the territorial border from four to 12 nautical miles, alerts on coastal transport, and opportunities to improve the efficiency of interactions between different actors in the event of ship accidents. As far as liability is concerned, I would like to inform you that new and significantly higher amounts of liability for Norwegian ships will be introduced as early as 20 February this year. The background for this is the adoption of a separate convention, and we are the first country to implement those arrangements nationally. The International Maritime Organisation decided in October 2000 to increase the amount of oil spills from tankers. This amount increase will enter into force in 2003. As far as the spillage of bunker oil is concerned, I hope that in the International Maritime Organisation in March this year a convention will be adopted. It will strengthen the international regime in the case of oil spill compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e868	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. Nevertheless, allow me to ask a follow-up question: a few weeks ago during a meeting in Tromsø, the Maritime Director promoted the need for monitoring the activities of shipping outside the territorial border. That was to the extent that the Council of State entered. The Maritime Director recommended that the responsible authorities should also be responsible for notifying other departments if this monitoring revealed abnormal circumstances. His word was to prioritise proactive solutions rather than reactive solutions. This was justified by the fact that it is often more reasonable to prevent an accident than to clean it up after an accident. Does the Minister have any further views on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e873	I think it was a good proposal for the Maritime Director to agree that we should focus more on the system that is in place, among other things. in the United States. Then the Defense – Coast Guard – will get more into the picture and could be the ones reporting from in advance. This is one of the proposals that different departments are now considering together, where not least the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry are involved. So that's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e878	Does the Minister have any opinion on how these problem areas are organised in our neighbouring countries, and whether any of these models may be interesting to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e883	The arrangement they have in the United States with a kind of coastal police, so to speak, seems to be a good suggestion to go into more detail. We are now going through liability in relation to what happened to the various ship accidents we have been in, whether there is a need for tightening up in order to improve the functioning of systems and procedures. We will come back to Stortinget with a separate case about this, but I cannot now say how it will be promoted for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e888	Question 4 will be answered in front of question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e894	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The World Gang writes on 15 January 2001 that the UDI/State Building was informed of the requirement to build a footpath in connection with the planned Onsrud Transit Reception in November 1997. When the project was stopped in the autumn of 1999, it was the same route that was used to justify it. How can the Council of State defend the fact that the project was not stopped when you became familiar with new major cost elements, but that, on the other hand, at least 10 million were continued to be spent. krona for no use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e903	As you know, I was not the Council of State in this period, and I cannot therefore answer for how my predecessors have assessed this matter. It is not possible for me now in retrospect to assess or comment on the decisions taken by the former political leadership in the department. However, I would like to inform you that yesterday I became aware that the Swedish Aviation Agency has sent to the hearing a proposal to place the Trandum area in noise zone 3, while it is currently located in noise zones 1 and 2. The proposal is justified by the expected increase in air traffic in the years ahead. In my opinion, within the noise zone 3, it is not advisable, based on the information I now have, to make new start-ups or new constructions. In the light of the latest information I have now received, it seems little relevant to set up a new reception unit to meet both the needs of the Foreign Directorate and the police in the Trandum area. The government will therefore review the issue of the creation of a new single reception unit and return to Stortinget with such an assessment as soon as possible. It is obvious to me that the planning, coordination and management of this project has not been good enough. I would therefore like to take the initiative to get a thorough assessment of this with a view to making this type of project more feasible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e912	What the council here is bringing is completely new information, and it was okay to be informed about them so quickly. However, when it comes to the very question of the procedure and the work on the reception of transit, there are several issues that are being updated here. One is, of course, the appropriateness of the new election that you had, and that you've gone away from, as far as I understand the council. The second is what light it puts on the capacity and suitability of the UDI and the State Building to solve these problems. It is true that the UDI has traditionally had further access within the regulations in connection with the construction and establishment of reception, because they have needed rapid capacity building up and down. In this case, it is a transit reception which should be much more permanent and where one should be within the normal rules of procedure and allocation. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on how it is perceived that the role of the UDI has been both in relation to this and the administrative capacity and ability they have in relation to other matters that VG has been looking up about recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e919	What has happened before I took over the Council of State chair, I cannot comment. Previous political leadership assessments have been carried out and, as the representative of Solberg is well aware, this has unfortunately been going on since 1995. But I'm going to, as I've also stated earlier, as soon as possible, give a statement to the Storting about what's really been going on, why things have gone wrong, and why it's taken as long as it's actually done. What I think is quite obvious is that this has been a lot of actors inside the image. There has obviously not been good enough coordination and good enough coordination, and as I said, also not good enough management of the project. And there are many who have to bear the responsibility. Of course, I take full responsibility for the time I have been in charge of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and will do what I can to prevent that kind of thing from happening. In the case of UDI in particular, UDI – as far as I can see now – has given me the right information in this case, but there are many things that have come to the table. I feel the need to go through it and have therefore asked for a statement from the UDI until tomorrow afternoon, and I will then see what it says there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e928	I am glad that the council says she will come back with a statement to the Stortinget. We have, as the Council of State knows, to treat St.meld No. 17 for 2000–2001, which is a suitable occasion, and questions relating to the case have also been sent to the Ministry. However, there is one relation to the establishment of transit receptions that I want to address – since it is now likely that a whole new project will be launched – and that is the clarification in relation to the non-governmental organisations that are currently operating such transit receptions. The history of Onsrud/Trandum shows a very poor treatment on the part of the UDI by both the Red Cross and the Refugee Aid AS – which has driven reception at Trandum – in terms of information related to the winding-up of Trandum and the further development of the Red Cross transit reception today. Because these organisations are also responsible employers, there is a need to clarify soon how long the transit reception that currently exists in Bærum must continue, in order to deal properly with the employees and the large and good environment of competence that exists there. Will the Council of State ensure that the UDI now has an ongoing dialogue with the voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e935	I am also very concerned that information in relation to the receiving operators is getting better than what we have seen some examples of. There is also no doubt that we, for example. on Tanum, has a very good environment with a lot of professional competence that I think it is possible to pull switches on. But, as I said, with the new information we received from the Swedish Aviation Agency yesterday afternoon, it seems to me quite clear to me that there is now a need to give signals about, at least as I assess the matter now, that building a new transit reception on Trandum is little time. I will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible. What's going to happen instead, whether it's building on Tanum, which exists, or other things, I have to get some time to consider, but at least I'm going to come back with all the information and with suggestions on how we should proceed, as quickly as possible. As I said, on the basis of the information I am now sitting on, I do not think it is appropriate to recommend that a person proceed to Trandum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e944	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘On behalf of the KS, the Social and Business Research Foundation has conducted a comprehensive study on competitive outsourcing and the ordering/executing organisation in Norwegian municipalities. [[SNSF]] The study shows that increased use of market-related instruments to improve the efficiency of municipal service production has been and is expected. The trend towards increased operating privatisation is clear in both small and large municipalities. This is positive, but what is the Government’s view of the observed development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e953	The launch of public service production is one of the most comprehensive and central trends affecting the municipal sector in recent years. For some, competitive outsourcing is an objective in itself, and some wish for ideological reasons that as much as possible of public service production should be privatised or put off for competition. My starting point and the starting point of the government is that we need a strong public sector to ensure a fair distribution of value creation, and that as much of the public funds as possible should benefit citizens and not become profits in private businesses. It's this that's putting the users in the center, as we see it, of public service production. But that doesn't mean, of course, that the municipalities are going to do absolutely all of the tasks seagoing. When municipalities build a school or a nursing home, a construction worker sets up an entrepreneur, and one often cooperates with non-governmental organisations when holding, for example, cultural events. There are also many municipalities that have allowed a private company to carry out renovations every year – without it having been seen as privatisation – since the municipalities have never had their own employees in this area, for example. Municipalities are different both in terms of area, number of inhabitants in the municipality and infrastructure, and therefore municipalities also have to decide to a large extent how service production is to be organised. However, for the Workers' Party, it is important that municipalities do not organise themselves away from the control and control of welfare services. The scope and execution of public services is and should be, in our opinion, the responsibility of the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e962	I thank the Council of State for the answer that reveals the Workers' Party's view of this now in 2001; there was nothing very new here. Unlike the Workers' Party, we have long argued in the Progress Party that the public should be deprived – in practice – of their exclusive right to carry out welfare production today, and that a principle of competition must be established throughout the range of public welfare and service production. We have strict competition laws in Norway with regard primarily to private enterprises, with the aim of ensuring the efficient use of society’s resources through effective competition. In fact, I very much doubt whether it will be possible to streamline and renew the public sector if we try to exclude the market and competition as instruments in this modernisation process that the Workers' Party has talked about. Now it's time not only to think new, but also to act like this to create better conditions for Velferds-Norway. I am disappointed that the Workers' Party is still standing on what the Council of State initially said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e969	This government is both rethinking about the organisation of the entire public sector, and we are also acting. We have already shown that through some concrete proposals, and it will be more in the coming months. Despite doing very well, and there are an incredible number of employees doing an incredibly good job, including within tight deadlines, there is no doubt that in some areas the public sector should and can be better organised for the benefit of its citizens. Not least, the coordination of services, so that those in need of public assistance or assistance, as a general rule, have one place to go, and we have to stop getting the many examples we have today that people feel – rightly – like throwing balls in the public system. When we are so concerned that the public must have control and control of this, including those elected by the people, it is because we want everyone to have equal access to basic welfare services, such as: health care, no matter how rich you are, no matter where you live in the country and no matter what sex you have. We believe that this is best done through a strong public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e976	In fact, most people are very little concerned about whether the hospital is municipal or private driven. People are concerned that welfare services are available when you need them. The main point must be that we maintain a publicly funded welfare production that is both cost-effective and qualitatively good and meets the actual needs of the population when they need it. But when we see that the public does not stretch, as we see today with health cows and other things, private actors should be encouraged to work to complement shortcomings in welfare services. What, I ask, is really so wrong with such a thought for the Workers' Party? As long as all important considerations are taken into account, it should not matter whether it is a municipal employee or a private employee who hires our grandmothers, teaches our children or treats us in the hospital, only it is done – and under official control and under public payment and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e983	Now there's municipal maritime governance in this country, and I think that's a good thing. But for the Workers' Party, it's important to stress that what we're doing is so sure the equivalence of the services offered around the country, and compared to the other thing I said in the previous answer. What we think is important is that the municipalities have control and control of this, and we also believe it is important that the elected representatives can determine both the scope and the performance of the public service service provision just so that we can reach all the people around the country. So today there are many ways to organise an offer around the municipalities. As I also pointed out in my main response, it is going on, for example. good cooperation with non-governmental organisations in many places. We don't mind. That's also what I said, in many municipalities, there have been other than municipal employees who have been doing renovations for many years, and in some places it works well. But what is our main point is that we must ensure that we have a strong and good public sector, which can be improved in many areas, but which can meet everyone's needs wherever we live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e993	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘According to Asker and Bærums Budstikke, the amount of ecstasy seized in Asker and Bærum tripled from 1999 to 2000. The same trend is seen elsewhere. Younger and younger people are using the drug, and the police are being intimidated by the generalization. Ecstasy, according to the superior Jon Johnsen of the Psychiatric Youth Team in Akershus, is particularly dangerous because it is «empty» serotonin in the brain. Parental responsibility is clear, but does the Government have a strategy that can help reduce the use of this dangerous substance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1002	In recent years, we have recorded a general increase in the use of drugs among young people. This applies not only to ecstasy but also to the use of cannabis and amphetamines. We also see that youth use of alcohol seems to have increased relatively dramatically. Therefore, we cannot see ecstasy in isolation; we must take into account that young people use more drugs than before. There are several reasons for this development. Among other things, I think we need to see the use of drugs by young people in the context of a more liberal attitude in the adult population towards alcohol, as is known to be the drug that causes the biggest problems in total. At present, alcohol consumption appears to be on the rise, and measures to limit availability have less population expansion than in the past. While adults largely distinguish between alcohol and drug use, today’s young people do not do so to the same extent. Many, therefore, do not have the same restrictive approach to drugs as adults. The Narcotic Section of the Oslo Police Chamber reports that young people increasingly consider it trendy to use drugs. In a report on the development of Oslo Centre, the Oslo Department describes that young people attracted by what is called the house-techno culture are developing an uncritical attitude to drugs, and perhaps especially ecstasy. The same trend is also reported elsewhere in the country. Last December I held a consultation on the new drugs. Young people who themselves have used ecstasy, parents, social workers and drug law enforcement met here. This meeting I found very useful. In the Department, we are now working on how best to follow up and develop strategies on the basis of, among other things, the advice given. So what can society do to reverse this trend? In addition to the efforts of police and customs to limit access to illegally imported drugs, such as drug trafficking, drug trafficking and drug trafficking. Ecstasy, measures that can help young people not to use such drugs are central. The government therefore attaches great importance to the development of prevention strategies and measures. As the representative will be aware, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has reorganised the state’s efforts to prevent drug problems from 1 January this year. We have paid particular attention to bringing competences and resources closer to municipalities through the regional drug competence centres. Competence centres will draw up concrete action plans and priorities for 2001. These plans shall be drawn up on the basis of knowledge of the situation and needs of each region. We have asked them to pay particular attention to how we can meet young people experimenting with new drugs, such as ecstasy and GHB. I'll come back to that in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1013	I thank the Minister for the answer. I wish she would go a little more concretely into ecstasy. To my knowledge, it's the most dangerous substance of all of them. But I allow myself to ask an additional question. There's still new so-called party-baptism coming out on the market. The Minister of Social Affairs himself mentioned GHB. The industry that develops these substances is in the forefront, so it is difficult for professionals to follow. Is this being taken seriously with ever-increasing trends among young people in the sense of deliberately building up skills, so that information to children, youth, school and parents can be used as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1020	This question illustrates very well why it is not just about ecstasy in my main answer. In the case of all these substances, which generally have a common effect on the serotonin balance of the brain, it seems that the industry is always ahead. So we don't have to focus too much on just one substance. We have to look at the whole thing. We have to understand what it is that makes the youth seem willing to experiment so violently with their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1028	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Social Affairs the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Government has applied to the EFTA Court for discrimination against alcoholic beverages of the same alcoholic strength. Currently, beer may be sold at shops up to 4,75 % by volume of alcoholic strength, while wine and alcoholic soft drinks are only legal below 2,5 % by volume. Will the Council of State quickly bring forward a case for the Storting that equates products with the same alcoholic strength, or will the Council of State take the chance that Norway will be sentenced to do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1037	I would first like to remind the representative Nesvik that a majority on the Stortinget has twice rejected the private bill by Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on the equal treatment of wine and beer containing between 2.5 and 4.75 % by volume of alcohol. It happened on 2 June 1998 and as late as 28 March last year. ESA goes further by requiring equal treatment of beer, wine and spirits. The Government has a period of 5 March in which to reply to the EFTA Court. But I would already point out for some reasons that it is important to maintain that the Norwegian trading scheme does not conflict with the EEA Agreement: 1st@item: inlistbox The non-discrimination requirement applies only to products covered by the EEA Agreement. There are currently few products on the market next to beer with an alcohol content of between 2,5 and 4,75 % by volume of alcohol. Pages and fruit wines fall outside. On the other hand, new sales rules will allow for the production of beverages with between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. alcohol for sale in grocery stores. All experience suggests that an expanded product offer will lead to increased alcohol consumption.2. The products in question appeal to young people both through taste and marketing. Therefore, liberalisation in accordance with ESA requirements could lead to increased consumption among young people. At a time when there is also an international focus on the challenges facing young people in their alcohol habits, I find it very difficult to defend a proposal for liberalisation in Norway.3. In particular, I would like to point out that the WHO European Ministerial Conference in Stockholm in February this year has the theme of 'Young People and Alcohol'. The background is a major concern about the increase in alcohol consumption among children and young people across Europe. I share this concern, including: the increase in alcohol consumption in Norwegian youth between 1995 and 2000 has increased from 2.8 litres to 4.8 litres of pure alcohol. In this situation, I find it difficult to recommend that we comply with ESA’s requirements, although I am aware that there is a procedural risk in the proceedings before the EFTA Court. I would therefore like to give priority to defending the Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1058	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and it is clear that the Minister of Social Affairs and I have every starting point on this matter. What I'm talking about is the non-discrimination of products with the same alcoholic strength. I'm not talking about liberalizing Norwegian alcohol legislation. In its reply, the Social Minister pointed out that alcohol consumption among young people in Norway has increased significantly in recent years. But then I have to remind the Social Minister that it is despite the fact that we have the rules that the Social Minister will absolutely defend. The Minister of Social Affairs also says that everything suggests that if you get this into the shops, access will increase and, if you want, sales will increase. I have no faith in that. But what's my question to the social minister is, how do you want to deal with this matter? If one is convicted, will one comply with the claim of the EFTA Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1065	First of all, I distinguish between the different products that contain alcohol, and I don't think it's just a liquid with some percentage of alcohol in it. That's why I'm distinguishing between raspberry and beer. I agree with the representative that it is worrying that consumption has increased as significantly as it has. That's why I don't want, as I explained in my answer, to have even more offers that go directly to the youth market. When it comes to the second question, what do I do if we get convicted, I'm going to get back to it in case – but hopefully I'm going to let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1074	I notice in the answer from the social minister that she of course hopes not to come back to that question. Actually, I do, too, but I want us to be in the forefront here and equate these products. I noticed that the Social Minister in his first reply referred to what had to do with taste, color, design and that bit, as the former Minister of Social Affairs from the Central Government also pointed out. Unfortunately, as usual, I just have to point out that I have never tasted these products, so I don't know as well as the Minister of Social Affairs. But I have a question for the Social Minister. It is also announced that claims for compensation will be assessed; claims may arise if we are now convicted in the EFTA Court in respect of these products. And my question to the Social Minister is two-part. One is: is the use of alcopops and the type of products that have increased in recent years, or is the use of other alcoholic beverages such as: Homeburn? And the second is, how much will the Minister of Social Affairs really spend on the tax money of Norwegian citizens to fight for this matter as she wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1083	It is clear that every case has a process risk. We'll get back to that, as I say, when it comes to reality. And it's not that I don't want to be in the lead, but we'll come back to it when the reality is there. How much it will cost us to execute this trial, I don't know, but I know a lot about the cost of getting an even higher drug use among young people. I want us to be saved for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1090	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1096	This question, from Mr Stensaker's representative to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1099	I will promote the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The new procedures for tolling postal items make it very difficult and bureaucratic to order goods from abroad. This applies in particular to products with a low price, such as CD-ROMs. There have been many examples of the severity of this system. Will the Council of State look into this matter and promote measures to facilitate this, possibly eliminating customs duties on goods with a low purchase price?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1108	Shipments of mail orders below a certain value were previously exempt from VAT on importation. With effect from 1 March 1999, the rules were amended so that import VAT is now payable on mail orders irrespective of the value of the goods. I would like to point out that the change has nothing to do with customs, as this has turned out to be a common misunderstanding. The change implies that mail orders with a value of less than SEK 200 should also be charged on arrival in Norway. If the customer chooses to let the Post forward separately, a fee of 120 kroner will be paid for this service. The customer can pick up the package from the nearest post office. However, customers also have the opportunity to hand over the product over the Internet themselves. Such customs clearance is carried out by entering the Customs website on the Internet and completing a simplified customs declaration. The post office then charges a fee of 50 kroner. In this case, the customer must pick up the goods at the nearest regional postal terminal. The customs authority shall not levy any special customs duty in connection with the declaration of the goods, either by electronic means or by manual means. The previous exemption scheme for mail order shipments below a certain value was justified for administrative reasons. Commodity recipients and customs authorities should not dispatch small consignments. However, the scheme resulted in a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian traders who traded similar goods under the general rules of the VAT law. After an ordinary consultation round, the regulation under the Government of Bondevik was amended to provide a non-taxable treatment for Norwegian and non-resident traders. A simplified system for customs clearance of small packages is currently under way. Postal items from abroad include: a result of e-commerce. In the government’s IT policy, it is a clear objective to strengthen confidence in and reduce barriers to e-commerce in Norway. In the Government eNorway Plan, Action 1.3.14, it is a clear objective to reduce the transaction costs of e-commerce resulting in mail shipments from abroad. In the autumn, cooperation was started between the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance to look at possible simplification solutions. A pilot project has been carried out in which concrete measures have been proposed to simplify procedures. The pilot project is now under assessment in the different departments and aims at finding solutions that are both cost-effective for customers and reduce the lead-through time for goods. It is the Government’s aim to implement these simplification measures as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1121	I thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to ask an additional question. I see differences in imports of goods for resale and goods for own use. Now I have received many enquiries about this, and people believe that it has become a lot more heavy than it was before. In my opinion, one should go back on this and have the right to a fee below a certain amount, for example. 500 kroner. The IT trade is increasing, and I see no reason to protect Norwegian business from the competition from the IT trade. So my question will then be whether the Council of State will consider making it easier for such trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1128	It is important to speed up e-commerce, initially in the interests of consumers, but also in the interests of Norwegian traders. And there are two considerations that need to be weighed against each other. One consideration is for Norwegian business — and this is not a matter of protection, but it is a matter of non-discrimination, because one is in the situation that, if one makes exemptions to a certain limit, it will be goods that are exempt when they are imported but are subject to a charge if they are traded in Norway. The second consideration is the consideration of simple e-commerce. It's easy to deal with the two considerations that need to be weighed against each other. Two years ago, the then government came to the conclusion that Norwegian industry had to weigh more heavily. We see that this is preventing e-commerce, and in particular what we call retail trade, and then we're talking about the mass market. That's why the government is very committed to this, and we aim to solve this for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1133	So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1139	«In budget entry. S. No 13 for 2000–01, the majority argued that last year’s train production should be continued for 2001. In spite of this, the NSB is laying down among other things all the medium-distance trains on the Dovrebanen through the Gudbrandsdalen. This has led businesses and others in the Gudbrand valley to dramatically worsen their communication capabilities between, among others, to and from the capital. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Storting is fulfilled and that the train is restored?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1146	In connection with the treatment of the State budget, Stortinget asked that the train offer for 2000 be continued for 2001. On 19 December 2000, the Ministry of Transport and the NSB BA concluded a temporary agreement to purchase passenger transport services for 2001. This agreement states that train production for 2000 will continue in 2001, adjusted for planned changes as a result of the situation of lack of drivers. The timetable was amended on 7 January 2001 to adapt it to the accessibility of drivers. In the assessment of the route routes, it has been suggested that fewer passengers should be hit and that the available drivers should be released and deployed where the train traffic is the largest. The future train offer in the State purchasing area will be initially assessed in the context of the negotiations on the permanent agreement for 2001, at the next round of negotiations between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on a new framework agreement for the purchase of passenger transport for the period 2002-2005. Then, of course, we will consider how to set up the train offer when the driver situation is again under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1155	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which in a way gives a promise of a better time when only a slightly larger locomotive capacity is given. I understand that locomotive drivers must be given priority within the areas where NSB needs them most, but what is happening now is that the train supply up through the Gudbrand valley is almost raging. There are five train routes southwards and northwards that stay away, and that then make it totally impossible for business and for people to go into Oslo in the morning and up again by train in the evening. As there is a lack of drivers that is in a way the cause of this and not primarily the financial problem, the question is, all the time the Stortinget has said that one is willing to use the means to sustain the train production, if a premise could put in a bus offer that could replace any of the things that are now missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1160	I have a great deal of understanding of the problems involved, even though the problems where they are least in relation to the driver's situation are being addressed. It is clear that those affected by this, for example: In the Gudbrand valley, in particular, there is no feeling about what problems are avoided elsewhere. The problems for those who are hit in the Gudbrand valley are just as great regardless of the reason why this happens, so I have a great understanding of both the frustration and the turmoil that this brings. As far as the issue of setting up future offers is concerned, we are currently negotiating an agreement with the NSB for 2001. In this context, it is reasonable to take into account the consequences of the lack of drivers also in the Gudbrand valley. However, those negotiations are at a stage where it is not fair and proper to comment on them in concrete terms, but I take the views of the representative, Mr Rudihagen, into account in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1167	Thank you for that. The problem is that for a while there will be something in the future that will be unsafe, until one gets more pilots. The most important thing now is that you get a temporary solution in the precarious situation you are in now. And then my main point was that when the state is willing to spend money on keeping production up, it has to be possible either to give way to the county because they have a temporary bus offer, or that the NSB itself has a bus offer to partially replace the routes that are now missing. Obviously, one here has to see things in context – prioritizing one area, it goes beyond something else. I fully understand that. It is also such that the railway is now investing in central and population-wide areas. But my point is that it must not go beyond the territory. If we think of something with our regional policy objectives, we must also be able to maintain a certain level of communication in the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1174	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Rudihagen, that this is a very central objective, and then we must use the instruments that are most appropriate, including on the communication side. What the representative Rudihagen says about this with alternative offers, I take with me in relation to the negotiations, because the negotiations are not just about trains because you have this lack of drivers. So I'm taking these points of view further. Our aim is to provide the best possible communication services both where the population density is high and where the distances are large.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1182	This question, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1185	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Last year, 465 exemptions have been granted from unloading on board ships in Oslofjorden. Some believe this is going on in security. Others believe that monitoring in Oslofjorden has improved since the start of the traffic centre in Horten. What does the Council of State think about the safety of maritime transport in the Oslofjorden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1194	Under the regulation of 23 December 1994 no. 1129 § 6 on compulsory unloading is the general rule that ships over 500 gross registered tonnes and vessels carrying particularly dangerous or polluting cargo are free of charge in waters within the baseline. Section 12 allows the lodger to grant a dispensation from the unloading obligation for individual sailing services if there is a lack of accessible cabins. Such a derogation must be safe and sound. In all derogations, the following conditions have been assessed by the authorities: type and quantity of cargo, size of vessel, standard and navigational equipment, crew qualifications, characteristics of waters and prevailing weather conditions. Last year, 8 794 unloadings were carried out in the Oslo soil maritime traffic area, and 471 exemptions were granted. In comparison, 1999 figures were 9 747 and 135 respectively. This increase in derogations may be partly explained by an unusually high disease rate among state unemployed during a period of last summer. A significant lack of pilots resulted in more exemptions than normal, where this was safety-related. The situation was special and could be described as an exceptional situation. An essential part of the granted exemptions in the Oslofjord applies to the outer part of the fjord, a waters considered relatively simple. The bulk body is dimensioned for normal traffic management. However, occasional traffic peaks are not to be avoided. In such situations, an exemption is granted for individual sailing where, on the basis of an overall assessment of the safety conditions, this is not considered irresponsible. It would not be reasonable, either practical or economic, for the unloading service to be dimensioned to cover some sporadic peaks in traffic. Consequently, the use of exemptions is an important instrument for the appropriate implementation of the unemployment benefit scheme. In relation to the dispensation practices of Oslofjorden, the traffic centre in Horten is one of the elements involved in the assessment of the dispensation basis. Through the Central Station, the Coast Guard Agency may monitor and enforce the rules of navigation and provide the necessary information and navigation assistance to vessels operating on the waters. On this basis, I believe that the safety of maritime transport in the Oslofjorden is properly maintained and practised in accordance with the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1211	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that security is being maintained, something else would have been alarming. But when questions have been asked about so many exemptions being granted last year, it is because you wonder if the precautionary principle is respected, and you can ask if there are enough losers at all. Willingness must be high all the time in Oslo Earth because of major consequences that can otherwise be imposed on both people and the environment. And the unloading service is a cheap insurance – not only do they know the waters, but they also know how to quickly convey help if something is wrong. I want to record two relationships. One is language problems. On board the boats today, many people work that do not know Norwegian or English, and this is a problem. And then there's this one with a fairway certificate that I also want to ask about, which is issued here to the acquaintances, it's said, that's going to sail in the area. But it's also known that someone has a fairway certificate for the whole coast. How can you guarantee these fairway certificates?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1218	The pre-goods principle is used for both the dimensioning and planning of the Losing Service. To the question of adequate staffing: in a normal situation, there is a crew that can take care of this in a permanent manner, but in 2000 there was an exceptional situation – as I described – that resulted in an unusually high number of exemptions. With regard to the two specific issues, language problems and this with a fairway certificate, I will bring it back to the Ministry of Fisheries for a more detailed assessment. You'll be able to get back to this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1227	One thing is leading the precautionary principle, but the exemptions may have consequences for Losvesene, and that's what they're afraid of. I know that there is now a matter for evaluation in the department regarding the relocation of the unloading station at Håsser. We know that it works well. We're not going to "old" with security, but we're going to have security on top all the time, and – as has been said – here, of course, it's not just the economy that's going to rule. Why do you want to rock this? I would also like to ask: are the users involved in these assessments? When will there be a decision regarding the unloading station at Watser?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1234	Once again only on a general basis: it is the precautionary principle on which this is based. This will be justified in terms of the dimensioning, but also in terms of the planning of the practical design. I think I have the understanding of the representative Scarbøvik that I will also bring the question concerning Håsser, back to the Ministry of Fisheries. I assume that you will also come back in an appropriate way when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1244	This question, from the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1247	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘A recently introduced regulation imposes new restrictions on working time for young people under 18 years of age on ships. The regulation means that a 17-year-old cannot enter the same watch regime as the rest of the crew. It will in practice make it much more difficult for young people to get a job on board, among other things, fishing vessels, which is very worrying from a recruitment perspective. Will the Council of State help to demonstrate the flexibility necessary for young people under the age of 18 to remain on board fishing vessels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1256	The regulation to which the representative of Kongshaug is referring is the regulation of 31 August 2000 on the work of young people on Norwegian ships. It is based on Council Directive 94/33 on the protection of young people at work. The regulation seeks to make use of the dispensation possibilities open to it. The condition for granting a derogation is that this is necessary as a result of the young person's vocational training, where there are factual reasons, or in specific cases. The dispensation options relate to: prohibition of particularly hazardous work of general working time of 8 hours a day and 40 hours a week prohibition of night work minimum requirements for rest periods The regulation operates with two systems of derogation: 1st@item: inlistbox General exemption for work as part of vocational training. A general exemption has been granted for all work included in the vocational training of the young person, i.e.: higher education or apprenticeship contract work. In these cases, it will not be necessary to apply for a derogation. If the work is done as part of vocational training, it will be possible, without applying, to make full use of the dispensations provided for by the regulation. By linking the general freedom of exemption to vocational training, a person also seeks to motivate the fishing industry to formalise the training currently taking place. This, in turn, could lead to a demonstrable professional competence for fishermen.2. Dispensation scheme after individual assessment. For young people who do not work on board vocational training, a derogation will have to be applied for on a case-by-case basis. Applications must be dealt with individually and the key assessment theme will be whether the safety and health of the young person is well and appropriately cared for. Therefore, it is my opinion that the exercise of the regulation would demonstrate the necessary flexibility if the young person's work on board were to be carried out in a safe manner and in accordance with the other requirements of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1287	Among the nutritionists and all of us who are engaged in the fishing industry and its development, the regulation is concerned. It is found that this in practice involves a professional ban on fishermen under 18 years of age. None of the vessels in e.g. the sea fishing fleet has an operating pattern or crew solution which allows persons under the age of 18 to be employed. As we know, fishermen in this age group have until now made a significant number. The most dramatic consequence of the regulation is that the recruitment of the fishing industry will slowly dry out. Do the Councils see the serious consequences of the regulation? I noticed the possibilities of dispensation that could be given, but I think it's going to be too heavy a system. Will the Council of State work to ensure that a general exemption from the regulations for the fishing fleet can be granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1294	In principle, I would say that I would be opposed to having a general exemption for the fishing industry. We know a good deal about security challenges. We have had many rounds in this house up over the years to get the fishing fleet to become more observant and actively working for safety and health. If we are to get young people into this industry – what we need – we need to make sure that they are safe for health and the environment. This applies to young people, for whom we have a responsibility. The dispensations that have been made have actually been granted, but it requires that you be able to document what you teach young people. I think that is a responsibility for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1303	In my opinion, at a time when the struggle for the labour force has stuck to it, it is a competitive disadvantage for the fishing fleet in relation to other industries that one does not actually embark on 17-year-olds. This means that young people will enter other professions and thus be easily lost to the fishing industry. A failing recruitment to this district industry, an industry that has been and will be a supporter of our welfare society and of our national economy, among others. because of the large export revenue, is serious for all of us. I noticed the answer given by the Council of State when it came to a general exemption scheme. I disagree with that position, but I would like to ask: will it be possible to work to amend Council Directive 94/33 so that ships are excluded? My claim is that a 17-year-old does not take more damage from working on board a fishing boat than a 60-year-old.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1310	I believe that the Left Party is concerned with quality, the environment and health, and not least with getting the fishing industry and the fishing fleet up to a high level of quality in terms of safety. There is nothing wrong with individual exemptions for 17-year-olds, but it is necessary to document the situation of the 17-year-old. I think that must be very good. And again, the waiver applications that have been submitted have also been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1317	President! Can I have the floor for a brief comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1322	It must be very short.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1325	It is such that the general laws and regulations already apply on board fishing boats. The rules and laws to take care of health and safety are already in place, of course, as there is also a job for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1331	To answer that, we in Stortinget have just given some incentives directly to the fishing fleet to work up a much better level of safety. Then I would also believe that we agree that you do not have to have a general exemption in order to have completely young people in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1339	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «According to the Newspaper on 27 November 2000, researchers have found clear evidence that polar monks eating PCBs-containing eggs from Finnmark suffer from a weakened immune system and an affected genetic system. This is just one of several examples of the consequences of PCBs. So far, both the current and the previous Minister for the Environment have shown little willingness to take a force to clean up old environmental sins. Will the Council of State take new initiatives to remove PCBs from the wild?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1348	PCBs are one of our most dangerous pollutants. As early as 1979, as one of the first countries in the world, Norway introduced a general ban on the production, import, export and placing on the market of PCBs and PCB-containing products. Norway was also at an early stage with requirements for the phasing-out of PCB-containing products already in use. PCB-containing power capacitors and transformers, such as: were found in large industrial and energy plants, phased out in 1994. Last year I had adopted a new PCB regulation that requires phasing out also of PCB-containing capacitors in fluorescent luminaires and current-transmitting sleeves used in power stations and similar installations. Unfortunately, despite these measures, the environment is still being administered to PCBs. A source is the further spread of PCB emissions that may have occurred several decades ago and are currently found in soil or sediments in fjords and port areas. Other sources are PCB-containing products that are not handled properly when they end up as waste, and long-range PCB contaminations that are fed to Norwegian regions via sea and air flows. It is therefore necessary to work very widely in relation to the problems posed by PCBs. I have given high priority both to cleaning up past discharges and to ensuring proper waste treatment of discarded PCBs containing products, and to international cooperation to prevent or significantly reduce long-range transport contamination of PCBs and other pollutants In the case of emissions of pollutants already occurring, it is important to clean up or secure the contaminated areas in such a way that unacceptable environmental effects are stopped. State pollution control – SFT – has surveyed approx. 100 areas of basic pollution where rapid remediation is needed. Measures have been implemented or launched in all of these 100 areas and the aim is to ensure that the necessary clean-up is completed by 2005. At the same time, the SFT is in the process of further investigation of approx. 500 areas to find out if there is a need for action here. Those surveys will also be completed by 2005. I will, of course, keep the Storting constantly informed about the progress of that work. The clearing of contaminated ports and fjords is a work that poses particularly major challenges and where there is a great need to develop more knowledge. These include issues relating to technical solutions, issues relating to the biological impact of pollutants, legal issues relating to the responsible polluter and issues relating to the financing of clean-up measures, which could amount to billions of dollars in total, depending on the level of ambition set for clean-up. A number of actions are in progress in different areas, but there is a need for policy assessments of further strategy. I will therefore give the Stortinget a broad presentation of the status and a plan for further work on this problem area during the year. My ambition is that we should be able to take concrete action as early as this year. Among other things, we aim at a pilot project where the aim is to gain experience with different solutions for cleaning and handling contaminated sediments because we need so much knowledge. It will also be important to further work at international level in the field of chemicals legislation covering PCBs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1370	I thank you for your answer. It is obvious that the Council of State is well aware of the scale of the problem, but it is nevertheless in stark contrast to the priority that has been given to this area. We are among others have been aware that it has been cut in the research programme related to the polar regions. The working party and the centre parties have cut the appropriations for environmental monitoring, which are important in relation to the PCB problem, and there has been no willingness on the part of the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties to grant funds for PCB clean-up. So my question is, doesn't the Council recognize that this is an area that has been deprived? We have been very good in Norway to pursue new environmental goals, but in relation to the old environmental sins, I think we have to admit that it has been done very little. I would also like to ask the Council of State how she believes that we can actually address the problems she is focusing on when her own party here in Stortinget has cut the appropriations for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1379	Let me first address the issue of research in this area. It is not true that research appropriations have been cut in proportion to the impact of PCBs in different parts of the Norwegian community. Not least, there is a strong focus on new research in relation to the effects of PCBs in the Arctic. There have been newspaper headlines relating to some research projects which have been completed and which have been sought by environmental authorities to enter a monitoring phase rather than a further research phase. We have further entered into a dialogue with the Research Council on how the research on the consequences of PCB can best be carried out, and here it is a good resource allocation. This is an area that should remain a priority. As Environment Minister, of course, I would wish that we had come even further into the process of clearing up these old environmental sins. Nevertheless, I would say that the work on the investigations that was going on when I started, and the work went on, has been driven quite actively. I'm sure the Storting can get back to this quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1386	If the Council of State believes that what has been done and what is being done today is offensive, I am deeply concerned about the major challenges facing us in this area. Governments themselves pointed out that clean-up work might require billions of dollars. I would also like to point out that after the Right presented its proposal for a separate action plan to strengthen the clean-up work in relation to PCB and strengthen the research effort, we have received a wide range of enquiries from researchers and companies that are involved in the cleaning up of PCBs, and that tell quite startling stories about how this work has been down-prioritized. I hope that the Council of State can signal that it will now move into a new phase, in other words take a much more offensive position, both in terms of increasing the appropriations for environmental research in this area, for monitoring, and that the Right and SV here in the Storting will also meet by granting state funds to start the clean-up work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1395	Right-wing exposure in this area is absolutely price-worthy. In parallel with that commitment, I have looked at how we can put this work into practice, based on the advice given to me by the State pollution authorities, which points to the extent of this work, the difficulty and uncertainty of technical solutions. I will, as I said in my reply, present a plan for the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can also take a concrete position on how a person wants to proceed. I think it is right to start a pilot project in order to better understand which technical solutions can be important. I've given this work a high priority, and it's going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1405	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «In recent times, we have experienced that many ships have landed along the Norwegian coast. Many of these ships remain in the rocks or on the seabeds, and it has proved difficult to remove these shipwrecks. This is due, among other things, to the ambiguity about who is going to pay for removal and cleaning. The provisions of the Pollution and Maritime Act have not been harmonised. Does the Government intend to propose legal changes to clarify legal and financial responsibilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1414	After the many shipping accidents we have had recently, the Government is now reviewing a number of possible measures to improve coastal preparedness and safety. In this review, we also look at the regulatory framework, including: on the relationship between the obligation to implement measures under the pollution law and the limitation of liability rules under the maritime law. When a ship goes down, the owner of the ship is obliged under the pollution law to prevent and control pollution from the ship and to remove the shipwreck. In an opinion to the Ministry of the Environment of 21 December last year, following the accident of «Green Ålesund» outside of Haugesund, the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs says that the obligation to act under the pollution law initially prevails before the maritime regulations. However, if the responsible person does not implement the necessary measures, the pollution authority may ensure the implementation of the measures, including the removal of wrecks. However, the requirement to cover public expenditure in this respect will fall within the limits of the maritime law. The limitation of liability in the maritime law is based on the rules of the so-called 1976 London Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims. This was amended by a 1996 Protocol which substantially increases the amounts of liability, so that they will now be more consistent with the real costs of shipping accidents. Although this Protocol has not yet entered into force internationally, the new rules have already been implemented in Norwegian just as far as possible before the Protocol enters into force internationally. The new and significantly higher levels of liability will apply to Norwegian ships from 20 February this year. It has not been appropriate for the Government to propose amendments to the general rules on the limitation of maritime liability as a result of international law. However, we will assess whether there is a need to clarify the obligation to act under the pollution law and to develop detailed guidelines for the implementation of this legislation on the basis of the issues raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1427	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that in a number of areas some work has been undertaken to clarify these conditions. We now have in the area from which I come, two terrible examples of the fact that the law does not work in practice. Policies and procedures must be put in place to live with when such accidents occur. We are now looking at examples of ships going ashore. It becomes an insurance settlement, and the maritime law is inside the picture. But when that happens, the shipwreck is there, and then the public authorities have to take over this. There is an unsustainable situation, not least when the cargo on these ships is also of a highly polluting nature. Then it has to be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1436	As I said, the higher limit of what the shipping companies will now be responsible for under the legislation in force will help with part of this. With regard to the shipshavars in question lately, those rules would mean a lot in terms of getting a complete solution to the problem, so I think we have a little bit of a solution on the way through it. In the case of ‘Green Ålesund’, I will come back to it specifically in a question later today. There are also examples of solutions for the wrecks in retrospect. With regard to the second example from the rogaland area, a solution is now being found between the shipping company and local authorities and with assistance from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1443	A brief supplementary question: When can we expect the clean-up of the legislation to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1448	This is a matter that the Government is constantly working on, as part of the overall work we have undertaken to increase security and preparedness along our coasts, so beyond spring we will come up with various proposals to improve security, including the measures the representative asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1456	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘NRK Uppland notified on 4 January 2001 that the county conservator was deprived of more than 50 pst. the means of cultural memory measures in relation to previous practices. The funds shall be allocated mainly by the Riksantikvaren upon application. This new scheme, where the state becomes a case manager for the Riksantikvarn, will lead to more bureaucracy and central governance. Is this in line with the Government's public sector simplification and efficiency process?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1465	Cultural Memory Protection is an important matter for the Government. I would therefore like to emphasise that the appropriations for the preservation of cultural memories increased by 20 million. kr in the 2001 budget. This is part of the process of stepping up the entire cultural memory field. The addition was made to grant items which ensure that the funds go to concrete actions. There has therefore never been more money for cultural memory actions. Another important objective of the Government is to simplify the budgetary structure and increase the free resources of the municipalities. A number of earmarked appropriations have therefore been transferred to the framework grant or to the free resources of municipalities. The reductions in the designated scheme in question that have been addressed are part of this work. In this context, I would like to point out that the Government will strengthen municipal environmental protection by giving municipalities greater responsibility and authority in environmental protection policy. Concrete work shall be undertaken on transferring responsibilities and authority, inter alia. on the cultural memory field. Such reforms must be followed up by reallocation of budgetary resources, not by maintaining earmarked schemes. With regard to the redistribution of funds in the year’s budget, this means that county councils have received less earmarked money for distribution, while the State’s grants to actions have increased significantly. So, in total, the means of cultural memory protection have increased. It is important that we in the future find rational and simple ways to distribute the funds, which are appropriate to the division of tasks. I will follow this closely, and help to ensure that the allocation of this year's funds to owners of cultural memories is as effective as possible in close cooperation with county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1478	I thank you for the answer and allow me some comments and additional questions. Let me first stress that I am aware that there has been an increase in the cultural memory post, and it further increased after the agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party. I'm very satisfied with that. But I've noticed that a lot of county councils have reacted negatively to the change in function that the department has proposed. It is no wonder, because the county has delegated responsibility for the administration in this area. Significant competences, experience and closeness to users in this field have also been built. The county council has also drawn up sub-plans for cultural memories to make the field visible and put it in a binding political context. This becomes more difficult to follow up when large parts of the funds are now ‘held back’ at the Riksantikvaren. This is also contrary to what we in the Center Party put in the term ‘local self-government’, and which I realized at the Council of State that the Workers' Party really agrees very much. Does the Council of State believe that what has now happened will stimulate municipalities and county municipalities to integrate cultural memory work into Local Agenda 21?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1491	The starting point for us has been that the funds allocated should be used more quickly to promote concrete cultural memory measures in the municipalities. We will now closely monitor how the state's competence in cultural memory work is used in this work, because it is important to interact with local activity and to use the competences that exist at county level, without hindering a development towards the empowerment of municipalities. So if the aspects of this budget conversion have unintended effects in terms of red tape or other problems, we will consider how we can find solutions to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1498	I thank you for the last clarification that the Council of State made. I think it's nice that there's going to be a recognition that if it has unintended effects, one will change it. For the county as a regional political body, it is not satisfactory to be left law-managing without a particular opportunity to influence the use of cultural heritage to the benefit of our communities. I have also not registered that there has been expressed dissatisfaction with the scheme that has been in place now. That's why I'm surprised by the changes and took up the question. For 2001, it is proposed that EUR 5.7 million. kr is transferred from heading 60, from regional cultural memory measures to the general framework grant to the county of the Ministry of Justice of the KRD, i.e. the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. However, according to a letter I have from the municipality of Buskerud, one does not find this in KRD's budget. One must then believe that the funds have been withdrawn, which must be said to be very unfair in relation to the text of the budget proposal, and not least very unfortunate for the cultural memory measures. How do the specialist councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1509	I would like to stress once again that it is important that increased local responsibility in an area is followed up by direct local allocations to the same area, otherwise it will be difficult to increase the autonomy of municipalities in new areas. Nevertheless, the competence side of the county councils' work on cultural memories is a central aspect of this, and that is in particular the responsibility of the county council, which I want to follow closely, because if we are to have a successful decentralisation, it will also be important how this competence can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1520	«The «Green Ålesund» seafarer» is now on land off the coast of Haugesund loaded with 3000 tonnes of frozen fish. The degradation process of fish will cause significant environmental problems in a larger area. The wreck is also located in such a way that it blocks the entrance to Stockholm Stord/Haugesund, Security Training Department. Fuzzy responsibilities may lead to a long period of time prior to the removal of the condensed hagarist. What can the State do to ensure that «Green Ålesund» can be removed quickly?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1527	The freezer vessel ‘Green Ålesund’ crashed and ran due to land outside Bleivika north of Haugesund on 15 December 2000. After the grounding the ship took in water, went round and sank on shallow water after a short time. In the first acute phase, oil pollution was prioritised because it was the greatest potential for damage. The risk of the spread of heavy bunker oil to major overwintering areas for seabirds and to farms with significant economic interests was over-hungry. Weather conditions, together with effective oil protection and a successful clearing operation, were able to limit the geographical distribution of heavy bunker oil from the Hagarist. At the time of the spill, «Green Ålesund» had 2800 tonnes of herring frozen herring and 400 tonnes of round-frozen mackerel on board. Detailed assessments have been carried out on the environmental problem of the load, as a basis for the implementation of any further action. I am informed that on board the frozen fish are developing into a significant pollution problem for the local area and the local population around Bleivika, and that there are great opportunities for major areas to be affected if measures to remove the frozen fish on board are not implemented. Any measures will also be seen in the context of the port authorities’ orders to owner for the removal of the wreck from the entrance to Bleivika. State pollution control will receive this week proposals for technical measures to remove the acute pollution from the fish load and cost estimates. The SFT will then make an overall assessment of the relationship between the environmental impacts and the cost estimate and make a recommendation to the Ministry of the Environment at the end of this week. The department's follow-up will then take place quickly after this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1536	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. It is clear from the answer that the Minister for the Environment is aware of the seriousness of this matter and is prepared to help address the pollution risk with offensive measures. I want confirmation that the Minister for the Environment sees this as an urgent matter, and that she will aim to remove the cargo as soon as possible. It will also be necessary, seen with local eyes – and others – to remove both wrecks and cargo. It must be natural for one in retrospect to fight about the bill, and not about the wreck. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment to confirm that it is also assessed how a person can remove the wreck along with the cargo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1543	I can absolutely confirm that I know this matter very well and take it very seriously. As my response showed, the technical advice given to me will relate both to the specific pollution risk arising from the fish on board and to the consequences of the wreckage in the area. The assessments I'm going to make of it will be based on that advice. I can confirm that I will do it as quickly as possible, but I want to wait until I have received these advice during the week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1548	What I feel is that the answer goes into, is that the Council of State confirms that it is relevant not only to look at the removal of the cargo, but also of the wreck. And that I think is a natural part of a total operation. Now, in a good way, the Council of State has stated earlier today what work is being done to prevent one from coming into situations later on where responsibility is unclear, and I think the Government and the Council of State have taken offensive and good care of important issues there. However, pending these things, it is important that communities – small municipalities and larger municipalities – do not come into a situation where they feel that they are playing ball in a game between different parties. I am concerned that, while waiting for an improved regulatory framework, an improved practice, procedures are being developed that allow one to also be operational in relation to wreckage and the pollution hazard arising, as is the case with ‘Green Ålesund’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1555	I want to confirm that we have embarked on a major effort to look at measures to improve coastal safety, both in terms of prevention, in terms of monitoring, and in terms of preparedness. However, I would like to stress that the challenges of the implementation of the actions and the ex-post removal of wrecks are great, both for cooperation between state authorities and for the private responsible polluter, and that there is also a great responsibility for the state as such. There are also large costs associated with this, so there won't be any easy follow-up to these issues, but we need to get better systems and better rules for the priority, so we get on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1564	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the context of the suspension of the Coastal Management Committee, defence was given a mandate in 1995 to establish a Coastal Preparedness and Operational Management Organisation. The meaning of this was to give the defence commands sufficient authority to maintain first line preparedness for the other departments. In the light of the Intervention Convention, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has been delegated the power to respond to threats to the environment along the coast. Why has the Council of State not delegated equivalent powers to the Defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1573	As a follow-up to the decision of the Storting to establish a more effective supervision of internal coastal waters, the Defence Agency has established a coastal preparedness and action management organisation. The system is implemented by the appropriate defence command when emergency situations occur at sea and the emergency response apparatus of the trade unions is not established or cannot intervene immediately. In particular, the Executive Authority will be attached to the Coast Guard units, even if other parts of the Defence may also be used. The Coast Guard is a very important part of Norway’s emergency response. In order to prevent accidents at sea and other maritime accidents from leading to acute pollution, it is necessary for the Coast Guard to be able to intervene promptly. In order to ensure this, the Coast Guard has already been given the necessary powers by the Coast Guard Act to monitor compliance with the pollution legislation. It is therefore not necessary specifically to delegate the powers under the Code of Pollution to the Coast Guard. The same applies to intervention under the Intervention Convention. The coastguard performs first line preparedness on behalf of the pollution authority and, in this respect, has the same authority as the pollution authority to carry out investigations, impose and impose control and enforcement measures on ships presenting an acute contamination risk. Norwegian authorities have greater access to control and interference with non-resident ships in Norwegian territorial waters than outside the territorial waters. I therefore see it as important that the Government has now decided to consider the issue of an extension of the territorial waters from four to twelve nautical miles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1582	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have an additional question. Recent events have shown that there is a high potential for improving coastal preparedness. Even clear recommendations made by the Coastal Management Committee and the Storting decision based on it have not been followed up. We have also been informed that five ministers have had a meeting to assess opportunities and measures. What recommendations and solutions have the few selected people now come up with?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1591	As the Government sees it, there are great opportunities to streamline and improve coastal preparedness and security along our coasts by both strengthening the resources used in this area and coordinating resources better. The Government has therefore taken the initiative to ensure that all relevant government councils responsible in this area are working on preventive, surveillance and emergency measures themselves. This is the responsibility of the representative. We will present concrete proposals beyond spring, and the Stortinget will have the necessary opportunity to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1596	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I can draw attention to the fact that I have submitted a Document No.8 proposal on this particular matter, but I have an additional question for: It is clear that it is very rare to have an overview of both monitoring capacity and coastal response resources, but some people need to have a sense of it. It has even been informed that projects have been launched to coordinate information from the Defence Coastal Radar, Coastal Centres, oil installations, etc. It's unlikely that it's taken out of the air. It has even crept into St. Prp. No 1 for the current period. It seems quite clear that neither the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Fisheries, the Minister of Food and Trade, the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Defence are able to explain this. Does anyone have an overview of this at all? If so, who is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1603	I can assure the representative Bastesen that we have a good overview of both the rules that apply and how cooperation and coordination between the different legislations are to be managed. The last two actions we have carried out, in relation to ‘Green Ålesund’, which was grounded at Haugesund, and ‘John R’ in Tromsø, have just shown that we have a good preparedness and that the cooperation conditions work as they should. We were lucky in the sense that these were not the greatest accidents that could happen on our coast. That's why we now have a chance to be leading where, we have an opportunity to make our preparedness even better, and we also have a very good starting point for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1613	I have a question for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘The chaotic BSE situation in Europe offers great opportunities for Norwegian agriculture and the meat industry with a billion-dollar export potential. In France, for example, veal breezes and T-bonastek are prohibited. Developments are marked by mass psychosis in this country with a 50 p.m. drop in sales. The market will pay a lot for security-guaranteed products. Will the Ministry of Agriculture investigate the possibility of large-scale Norwegian meat exports?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1622	The production of Norwegian beef is currently adapted to domestic consumption and only slightly oriented towards foreign markets. This is due both to our national cost and price levels and to the fact that Norwegian meat on the export market meets with high customs duties, for example. into the EU. Within the framework of the guidelines of the WTO Agreement, some funds have been allocated to export aid for meat products. However, the export of meat was relatively modest in 2000. Only for some agricultural products do we have special competitive advantages, for example: strawberries, currently exported without any export aid. Although Norway is considered to be the safest country in Europe in the case of bovine animals, it is not realistic, in my opinion, to add to some large-scale Norwegian exports of beef to the EU. On the EU market, Norwegian beef exports will have to compete in line with Australia, Argentina and other meat-exporting countries with the same BSE status as Norway. Therefore, due to their lower cost level, they will have a competitive advantage over Norway on the Union market. As in previous crises in the EU beef and veal market, it must also be expected that the demand for meat from EU countries will rise over time. Good and thorough work is now being done in the EU to restore confidence in EU-produced beef. The Ministry of Agriculture will therefore not draw up large-scale export plans for beef. Although Norway has a good BSE status, I think it may be short-term for Norwegian agriculture to use this as a key element in the marketing of Norwegian meat. In the longer term, however, I believe that we can export agricultural products, including meat, in some market niches, but in such export work we must build on the diversity of our agriculture and our natural quality advantage rather than seeking to exploit the cowhood crisis in the EU. If, however, the export possibilities for beef are found to be in question within those limits, they should of course be exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1633	I thank the Council of State for the answer that was so good, but perhaps something defensive. As the Council of State knows, we have the best category in the EEA, ‘highly differently’, and we should be able to exploit it in our marketing. Let's take the thought experiment that 1 pst. the EU population was willing to pay a lot more to buy Norwegian agricultural products with a quality guarantee. Then we could sell everything we could produce here in the country. I guess it's not quite right that we have a balanced market. In 1999, we had a regulation export of 19,000 tonnes of prima bovine and porcine meat to the international market, and it is a resource waste without equal. With a proper marketing of this, it will be possible to get far better pay, make better use of Norwegian resources and get the farmers out of the trenches. Doesn't the Council of State think it's right that we need more on the road, so it'll be trendy to eat Norwegian food out and get us a better economy in our agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1644	Firstly, as far as I know, the fact that we are an EEA country does not make it easier for our meat to enter the EU market than for example. meat from Australia and Argentina, i.e. country that I mentioned in my reply instead. This means that those countries with the same BSE status as us have a competitive advantage over being in this top category of good countries with regard to BSE. An important element in relation to what the questioner says is that we are going to give a quality guarantee to Europe: I would have to make a reservation there, because we cannot guarantee that the Norwegian meat is BSE-free. We've tried very little. Now we're going to expand the testing program, but in any case, we can't describe any zero risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1651	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. We know that the Fatland Group is in contact with international chains that have shown an interest in using Norwegian raw materials. We also know that the Hakon Group and Coop Norden are now working across borders. And it has to be a little attractive for Norwegian producers when there are Norwegian interests to be able to lift out some of the goods we produce here at home. I do feel that the Council of State has a responsibility to look at the framework conditions for those who are now trying to be offensive – I mentioned the Fatland Group, but there are also others standing in the start-up pit – and are trying to help here to the best of their ability, even though we now know about this with customs-based protection, and that there is a great cost of getting Norwegian products out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1656	I have no problem sticking to a reasoning that goes on that of course we are going to look at the possibilities here all the time. I visited the Fatland team yesterday and was briefed on their thinking. There was no main strategy from the Fatland Group in the briefing I received yesterday, which went on export. The fact that a person constantly assesses whether that possibility can be there, and in that case whether we can help, I find it timely. But I'm very afraid of a strategy that is going to be putting everything into being that we should be able to export on the basis that we're BSE-free, when we're actually in the situation that we're only now really expanding the testing of Norwegian animals. So if it's the only strategy, you can get a serious shot at the bow if one day there might be a positive case of BSE on a Norwegian animal herd. That is why I want a broader approach where quality, diversity and exciting tastes are as important as BSE status.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1664	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1667	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Researchers believe to be able to demonstrate that certain foods have a safe preventive effect against serious health disorders such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and stroke. When can an information system be established for the usual consumer about this knowledge by means of a health marking on the food?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1676	There is good evidence that a number of diseases can be prevented by appropriate diets. However, it is not primarily the individual food alone that can be said to have a preventive effect, but the diet as a whole. Eating more potatoes, vegetables, fruit and berries, more coarse cereal and fish products, lean dairy and meat products and using less butter, hard margarine, sugar and salt can significantly reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, certain cancers, diabetes, tooth rot, obesity and digestive problems. To influence the population of a healthy diet, we use both price policy instruments, consumer information and food labelling. Today, the labelling of foodstuffs is regulated by the regulation of 21 December 1993, which states that ‘the labelling shall not mislead the purchaser’ and that ‘it shall not be permitted to claim or give the impression that a food prevents, heals or relieves disease, symptoms or pain’. Both in Norway and internationally, the extent to which health claims are to be permitted in food has been discussed. The area is not harmonised in the EU. Codex Alimentarius has started work on health claims, but for the time being there is no agreement on definitions, documentation requirements etc. Norway participates in this international work. At the same time, both Norwegian and international food industries are actively working to identify products that may have a preventative effect. It will be important for industry to be able to label these products with the health effect they consider to be available, while at the same time ensuring to the authorities that any labelling of health claims is correct and also ensures the consumer's need for proper information. I can assure you that the question of health claims is an area that Norwegian authorities follow closely. The Ministry, in cooperation with the State Food Authority, the State Food and Physical Activity Council and the State Medicines Agency, will work to identify the problems that health claim labelling could pose and will try to identify proposals for solutions that serve the consumer in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1693	It was positive to hear that the department will follow along in what is happening, but I think it could be in place with a slightly more active attitude in this area. I don't think there's any doubt that it's making people change their diet we can do the most to improve health and to bring down the health cows, much more than anything else we're doing. Very many consumers will have to share the information available to researchers and, in order to increase the use of foods with a particularly positive health effect, the information must reach consumers and they must ask for products. The primary producers of food and the factories/industry will then invest more on such products and fill more in the shelves. Then the diet in the long term, and perhaps relatively quickly, will change. There will be less need and less interest in ‘tablet health’, of which we have too much today. I therefore hope that the Norwegian authorities can become as active as the Swedish authorities. My question will then be: is the Ministry also closely involved in what is happening in Sweden in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1702	We follow, as I said, in what is happening internationally in this area, but I didn't mean to say that it was so passive that we just follow along – we actively participate in international cooperation in this area within the Codex Alimentarius and also in bilateral cooperation with other countries. In this context, of course, we follow the experiences or assessments of other countries, such as the United Kingdom. Sweden. With regard to this information activity, first of all, I fully agree with the importance of having an active information activity in relation to diet and healthy diet as such, and then there is this overall consideration of the diet that we are using. With regard to the labelling of the individual food product, we also face the challenge of not being aware of any preventive health effects, unless we can also be sure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1711	The starting point for the question is that the researchers say that they are safe with regard to the individual product or product, and our diet is made up of individual products. We have to choose several of the products that researchers believe will contribute to better health, which prevents cancer and cardiovascular diseases, rather than the products that work the opposite way. Then it'll get better. And the first thing that has to happen in order for us to get the industry to do more in order for the researchers to engage even more to figure this out is that the regulation we have is being changed. I think it's time to start a work on considering changing the regulations we have, in the direction of what's happened elsewhere. We simply need to have a ban on misleading information, a ban on medical claims, and we need to open up claims about health impact, as it is within the EU system. I hope that the Council of State will initiate that work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1718	I do not believe that there is any particular disagreement between the representative Morten Lund and I signed on the importance of moving forward in this area; that is to what I say we will do in cooperation with the State Food Authority and the State Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity and the State Medicines Control. So it's a work that will be carried on, but in that context I also focus on the international cooperation in which we participate. I am also aware that researchers in a number of areas believe that they and those products have it and the health effect, but we are also aware that such truths tend not always to have an eternal truth in them, and it suggests that the authorities are very careful to provide such guarantees on the labelling of foodstuffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1725	Can I have a little comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1730	I think we have to stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1736	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Kingswinger police district has approx. 2,300 criminal cases pending. This is a dramatic increase from the previous year, where the number of cases was 1,886. Of course, this is due to some mitigating circumstances, which may be due to, among other things, lack of capacity. Is the Council satisfied with this negative development, and if not, what does the Council of State want to do to make this figure as low as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1745	The councils are not satisfied with that development, of course I can start by saying that. Improving the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and reducing the length of proceedings is a central objective of justice policy, perhaps the most important objective at the moment in the work of the police and prosecution authorities. Therefore, an increase in criminal penalties is not desirable, but sometimes we cannot avoid it. However, the objective must be that such increases, once they occur, will be time-limited. Effective treatment of criminal cases is important not only to the offended and the perpetrator, but also to the proper functioning of the sentence, and it is important that society gives the right signals to the perpetrator of criminal offences and to society around it. In the specific case of Kongswinger police district, the police director has stated that there are different reasons why the remains have been built up. The main reason is that the police district has lost several of its experienced lawyers and is now in a phase where new ones need to be trained. This has, in a transitional phase, reduced the capacity of the legal and prosecution unit. In order to remedy this situation, the police district has been allocated an additional budget of DKK 200000 in the 2001 budget for a project to reduce the balances under the direction of an experienced police inspector. The heads of the relevant district courts are also concerned with the settlement of the criminal case and have agreed to the police chief's extensive use of the assistant. After I have been informed, most recently in a meeting with the chief of police in Kongsvinger a few weeks ago, Kongsvinger is launching this project from the beginning of February. The Commissioner has also drawn up a directive to improve the effectiveness of criminal procedures. In my view, the measures already in place will be important to address the negative developments. In addition, the Directorate of Police will have a close follow-up to Kongswinger and to other police districts that do not show satisfactory results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1762	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State says that effective treatment of criminal matters is important not only to the offended and the perpetrator, but also to enable the punishment to function properly. At the same time, I have to say that it must be important also for the perpetrator – and the perpetrator is mentioned here – that he or she gets to settle his or her punishment and can continue his or her life. There are 300 things that have been waiting for more than a year, and I find this very worrying. I understand that Kongsvinger Police District has been added NOK 200 000 in 2001 to a project to dismantle the remains under the direction of an experienced police inspector. Does the Council of State think that this is enough help so that Kongswinger police districts can bring this figure down? Last year, as mentioned earlier, 1886 cases were pending, and it must be said that this has been a long-standing problem. What does the Council of State think are right numbers, both in terms of number of cases and how long should a case take?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1769	There will always be some remains in the police, but the important thing is that there won't be many old cases. Not only does Kongswinger police districts, but the whole police Norway has struggled with the fact that they have had many old things that sort of lie down like a backpack and hinder the progress of criminal proceedings. A force has been put in place through the work of the Task Force under the direction of axis. Advocate General Hans-Petter made his statement in June to substantiate where the problems lie, and then in the police districts as such. New objectives have been set in relation to the nature of the residues, which include: shall not have more than a certain percentage, and a low percentage, of cases over 12 months of age. Some issues with international branches, etc. will be so extensive that the investigation will take a long time. The important thing is that in the cases where there is a known perpetrator and there are no obvious problems, the cases should go very quickly, so that they get right into the courts and you get them processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1776	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand to the extent that the Council of State can't figure this out. In an article in the Glamdalen, a local from Kongsvinger, I record that the Council of State has been on Kongsvinger – something I am very pleased about – but there is nothing about this problem in the article. However, in the same newspaper five days later, you can read about this problem — without mentioning the Council of State. I have a specific question: was this a problem that you talked about and discussed at the meeting at Kongsvinger, or was this something that came up later?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1785	At that meeting in Kongsvinger police district, we discussed several issues, including a reduction in the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings. The police officer just showed me that there has been an increase in the number of stays and that there have been problems with the processing time in Kongsvinger police district, but that he now had great faith that the project they started from 1 February would get a completely different pace on it and that they would be able to clean it up. He was very interested in that, and I was happy to hear that. Reduced procedural time is always a theme of the meetings I have with the police districts around the country, precisely because I believe it is absolutely central to the future judicial policy, criminal proceedings and the fight against crime in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1795	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «According to the Official Journal of the Drammen on 17 January 2001, the police doctor in Oslo believes that many medical statements related to acquittal and pardon are incomplete. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that such certificates can only be issued by one or more experts belonging to a limited number of professionals previously authorised by the Public Prosecutor’s Office for the issue of such certificates?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1804	An application for a pardon or acquittal is very often justified by physical or mental health conditions. Weightings are given to such conditions only if adequate documentation is available. In the case of incomplete medical statements, what the police doctor in Oslo says is precisely some of the reasons why the Ministry of Justice imposes strict requirements on such evidence when applying for a pardon. The documentation should come from a public doctor and the ministry pays particular attention to the opinion of the police doctor. The medical statement shall include a medical evaluation describing the medical findings and a conclusion on how the medical findings will be relevant to the settlement of prison sentences. If a medical statement in a pardon case is incomplete, the Department will be able to obtain additional statements on the matter, such as: from the police doctor, so that the health status in question is as properly informed as possible. This is particularly true in cases where pardon appears to be relevant. The same substantive requirements and the possibility to obtain additional statements shall apply to applications for deferral where the prosecution authority is the recipient of the medical certificate. In this context, the prosecution authority has a separate responsibility to assess whether the application has been adequately illuminated before the deferral, if any, is granted. In my opinion, in this context, both the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office have the necessary opportunities and a reassuring practice of today's system. I cannot therefore see the need to take such a concrete initiative as Mr Marthinsen addresses in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1817	On the basis of what prompted my question, I am not satisfied with the response of the Council of State here. I feel that the certificates are of course for internal use in the department, but there are also three other reasons to take as far as I can assess it. One is that the convicted person must feel that he is given proper professional judgment and treatment. The second is on the relationship with the offended. Victims must be sure of the attestations on which the Ministry strongly bases its assessment, are professionally well-founded and do not contribute to attempts to avoid the penalty in a light-minded manner. The third is the message to the local environment. There are rumors about the purchase of certificates, which doctors are the easiest to write as the convicted wishes, and that the result is incomprehensible in the context of the daily conduct of the convicted person, which does not indicate any inability to pay, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1824	I understand that the representative Marthinsen is partly concerned with a specific matter, and I cannot comment on it in addition to what I have done in a written reply to the representative. My point in this answer is to say that you have the powers you need to obtain additional statements – that's the one. The second is that you have a practice of obtaining additional statements if you are least in doubt that the medical statements available in the case are not valid. And there's a lot to do to grant a pardon if there's no statement from a public doctor or from a police doctor. In the later pardon cases that I have seen, there have always been several medical statements from several doctors, so the matter has not been based on one medical statement from one doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1831	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring that the Minister of Justice emphasises that one certificate is not based solely on the fact that the relationship is such that further evidence is needed. But I point out that the police doctor in Oslo, Ikdahl, says that it could be a good idea to get a group of people who were previously authorised to issue such certificates, not least because that way one would also be able to get a consistent practice across the country. My concern – I hope the Minister of Justice can remove the slightest reason for it – is that there can be an impression that someone can come to a solution more easily that is positive for themselves than for others, and that the one who is in a position to deal with doctors is able to get his will through. Can the Council of State say that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1840	I can to the extent deny that it's like this. In a case where there are four medical statements from four different doctors over a long time, I cannot of course guarantee that all the four doctors are not tricked. It's never possible to guarantee it. But we can't be more confident than we have to trust the assessments that lie there. If you have more medical statements from a public doctor, from a police doctor, you almost have to base them. We cannot use any other procedure in the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1848	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Violence alarms to persons exposed to serious threats and violence have been in use in Norway since 1997. Today’s alarms have a very limited geographical scope and provide only practical security within the home. A new type of violent alarm with increased range is on the stairs. This may allow vulnerable persons to move safely even outdoors. What is the status of using this new type of violence alarm?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1857	In December 1999, after the Ministry of Justice had carried out a pilot project with such alarms, violence alarms for vulnerable persons were made into a permanent scheme. Already during the preparatory work on the project in 1997, the Ministry examined the possibility of an alarm which could also be used outdoors. That technology provided poor accuracy in the location of the exposed person if the alarm was triggered. The Ministry is in contact with a number of companies to find more precise recovery solutions. A continuous problem compared to many of the solutions has been that the impact of outdoor alarms has not been good enough. Alarm testing projects have also been funded. I am aware that prototypes have been developed that can theoretically be used for recovery with 1-2 metres of safety. However, this depends on some aspects being facilitated in the telecommunications network through new technical solutions. Upon request from the Ministry, the operator of the violence alarms has entered into further discussions with potential suppliers of technical solutions and will be able to present in a short time a proposal for the launch of a mobile alarm test project. In the absence of further delays in the technical solutions, an experimental project could be launched in the spring of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1866	I thank you for the answer, where the Minister of Justice says we have come to a point where we can have such a practical trial. I just have to use my skills as a layman, and as a taxi passenger in Oslo, I know that a taxi in Oslo can be placed quite quickly by means of bearing systems that exist. It is done to provide customer service, but of course also to provide safety for the drivers and for those in the car. My question to the Council of State is: aren't we here in a technology that can just give such an opportunity, at least in parts of the country where we have a telecommunications infrastructure that allows the alarms to actually be carried outdoors?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1875	I hear what the representative says, and as a doctor again it seems reasonable. But I feel that I can't say anything more about the technical than what we hear from those who actually sit and do this and try to get to a test project that can actually work. I believe that the representative of Dørum and the undersigned fully agree on the desire to get this done, but that none of us can help the technicians any longer than the technicians can help themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1882	The Council of State and I have a common understanding of the need to do something. I'm going to go from being a layman to being a staging representative. I think that technicians sometimes have to be helped to get together and think untraditionally. It happens that when they think separately, the reasoning does not go up because they operate with ideal claims. It could be that when you're brought together in an untraditional way, you find the solutions. I would encourage the Council of State to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1889	I take the call with me, but I hope that we can get a test project started in our early years. At least we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1894	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1900	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Universities and colleges in Norway have a relatively small student exchange abroad. At state colleges, it's only 3.3 pst. by students taking part in a foreign course. Foreign students at higher education institutions represent only 1.6 pst. of a year's coal. What will the Government do to stimulate greater involvement in internationalisation, especially at state universities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1909	Student exchange is an important part of internationalisation work at our universities and colleges. International cooperation provides mutual learning and thus professional development and quality enhancement. The Ministry wants to stimulate increased educational cooperation under the auspices of programmes such as Nordplus, Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci, which are well organised and reasonable for the students involved. Norway invests large amounts of funding, particularly for the EU programmes, in the programme itself and provides a favourable financing scheme from the State Loan Fund. Norway has a high cost level, a low-prevalence language and a study offer in English. There are major challenges to attracting foreign students. However, the statistics on Erasmus students show that it is useful. In the 1993-94 study year, the number of students entering the school was less than half of those leaving the school, 365 in and 784 in. In 1998–99, the proportion of residents had risen to 90 pst, 983 in and 1101 out. This is still much lower than desirable. The Ministry has recently allocated funds to a project to get more Erasmus students to Norway. The project is run by Centres for International University Cooperation and consists of three parts: 1. creation of a network of student promoters — i.e. to get students who have been to Norway for exchange stays to advertise Norway as a country of study2. exchange of information and recruitment material3. development of online provision of Norwegian training aimed specifically at short-stay students; The Centre has also received funding for the development of a portal, a website, with cooperation tools for international project work. The target group is coordinators of international education projects in general and the portal can be a useful tool for facilitating international work at schools, colleges and universities. Otherwise, I would like to stress that international cooperation is primarily the responsibility of universities and colleges themselves and anchored in the institution itself. Only in this way will both the quality and content of student and employee exchanges be ensured. Through the letter of allocation and the governance dialogue, the Ministry will work towards more ambitious objectives for the institutions than hitherto and will give internal priority to the exchange work. The Ministry has also strengthened the requirements for reporting on student and teacher exchanges at universities and colleges, and we follow up the institutions' work on internationalisation on an ongoing basis. It is a long-term goal as it has been formulated so far, that the candidates at Norwegian universities have taken at least one semester at foreign universities. I believe that conditions are now well suited for universities and colleges to significantly increase student exchanges. In this respect, both the international programmes and bilateral agreements between institutions must be used more actively. I would also like to discuss in the forthcoming Higher Education and Study Financing Communication actions to promote internationalisation in the light of the Aamodt Committee and the Mjøs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1945	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The percentages I mention in the question are taken from a completely new report from the Oslo University of Applied Sciences. This report shows that the State Council itself has stated that the political objective of student exchange is at least 50 pst. by Norwegian students taking university/high school education, they will receive a course of study abroad of three to twelve months duration and that we will receive the same number of students. The report states that in order to achieve this goal, it would be necessary to double the number of exchange students by five in proportion to what is being sent out today, and to double the number by three in order to achieve the target. How does the Council of State assess the degree of long-termity in this objective? How long does the government itself think it will take to reach the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1956	I fully agree with the description that the situation today is too bad. A large number of students should be allowed to take part of their study abroad. We have very good arrangements for those who want to take the entire study abroad, but if you are a student at a Norwegian institution and want to have an exchange arrangement, the possibilities are smaller. I believe that what we have already announced that we will propose in the forthcoming big message, namely that we move to a 3+2 system in our degree structure in Norway, can help to make it easier to take part in their education abroad, and that the study accommodation you have abroad can be adapted to a Norwegian degree. I don't want to establish any concrete year for when we want to achieve the goal of 50 pst. The students will take part of the study abroad, but I will promise the representative Wohnning that we will come back with concrete and good suggestions in the big news coming in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1968	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Personally, I find it a little difficult to see that a reform of the degree structure will do something from or to on this issue, because in the case of counting for study stays abroad, the legislation is well in place. Norwegian students who so desire are today paid for a stay of equivalent duration to home study when they are out. So there I don't think there's much to win. The area where I think it's a lot to win is if the ministry in its work on ongoing dialogue with the institutions and in budget-sharing can find out something that means a premiere of the institutions that do a good job of facilitating their own students' going out. My question is whether the Council of State will consider such forms of incentive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1977	I am not going to go into concrete proposals, but I fully agree that we need to make greater demands on the institutions. I also think the students themselves reward the institutions if they're good at providing good international programmes. I think that degree structure will be important in order to achieve greater compatibility between the Norwegian degrees and international degrees. In addition, I believe that the institutions, in cooperation with the department, need to look at how, for example. The semester and semester breakdowns are adapted to stay abroad, so that you can take part of your study abroad without losing progress in the course of study that you are in at home. All these questions will be given ample opportunity to debate beyond the spring when the big news comes, and that discussion hopefully leads to a result during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1989	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The Council of Association in Burfjord, Kvänangen municipality, has reacted strongly to the fact that the priest Jan Sommerset has participated in the social life of the village by going on a review with the corresponding party attendance. On this basis, the council presented threats of sanctions that became so burdensome to the priest that he collapsed and was admitted to the hospital for 4 days in Burfjord. Does the Council of State accept the treatment of the clergyman Jan Sommerset, who denies him the right to have social life that is otherwise normal in society?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e1998	The matter that the representative of Korsberg addresses, I know only from publicity in the media. The bishop has not reported the matter to the ministry. He has also had no reason to do so, as as the Council of State is difficult for me to be constitutionally responsible for what the more than 1,300 elected councils around the country had to do. The question nevertheless gives me the opportunity to underline an important principle in the Norwegian Church. It is the principle that the council and the clergy are not in a superior or subordinate relationship with each other. Accordingly, a council has no authority to instruct a parish priest. In my opinion, this specific case shows that this is a principle that should be upheld.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e2005	The undersigned also knows the matter from the media, but it is a very serious matter when an employee, be it a priest or someone else, is so heavily bullied in his profession that he is sickened and admitted to the hospital. The question is simply whether a priest has the right to a social life in the same way as others and has the right wherever in the country he practices. From what appears in the media, he obviously doesn't have it in this case. Shouldn't there be almost a position instruction or guidance for priests that allows them to practice the type of normal social life that this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e2012	There is not a single council in Norway that can instruct a single priest on how to organise social life. As I said, priests and council members are not in a superior or subordinate relationship with each other, and so the general answer is of course also valid in this case. It should not be possible for a council to refuse a pastor to have a social life, which the questioner considers normal in society, in and on a social life that is different from what is – I don't know what the representative puts into the concept – normally in society. It is therefore obvious that a pastor should not be able to be bullied out of his job, regardless of which congregational council you are dealing with. But as I said, this specific matter is not on my table and does not belong there either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e2019	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the matter is not on his table, but in general there should be opportunities to change the law in this area, if necessary, in order to ensure the priest better in relation to what a council can find out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e2026	I believe that the law today clearly says that you cannot instruct a parish priest in relation to his or her social life. The fact that some councils conflict with their local parish priest is well done from time to time. I'm not so sure the law can stop it. And I know that the Norwegian Church is systematically working with conflict management and work environment efforts to ensure that the individual parish priest has good working conditions. So I think every single thing needs to be solved individually. I don't think this is a law that's going to, here I think a little common sense can also help quite considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-24.ana.ud249e2039	There is no record available.
