ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e35	For most of us, Norway is a good country to live in and a good country to live in. And that's because in the last century, Norway was transformed from a poor society into a welfare society. That transformation was possible because, better than most other countries, we managed to realize two important values: the value of creating and the value of sharing. Our revenues increased, and compared to other countries, we have been able to distribute the goods well. We've made Norway the society of opportunity together. Now it's about putting these possibilities into practice, by continuing to create and continue to share. If we are to succeed in that, we must take care of our most important resource: the people and the knowledge and skills we have together. The main limitation for continued growth and development is not lack of money, but scarcity of hands and heads. In a society that lacks labour, it makes double sense for people to go unemployed. And it is a defeat both for the individual and for the community when people are pushed out of the labour market through long-term health and disability. We have to make sure that we use our hands and our heads properly and where they are needed most. Norway has a good health system, which treats more patients than ever before. There is no country in Europe that has more doctors compared to the number of inhabitants than Norway. Nevertheless, we have a lack of play, and the health care system is not good enough. Too many patients have to wait too long for treatment. Norway has a good school with thousands of skilled teachers. Almost no other country has more teachers compared to students than Norway. No country spends more money per person. students than we do in Norway. Nevertheless, we experience learning shortages in some places, and the school is not good enough. We have to do more to raise quality and increase well-being in school. Norway has a good police force. In recent years, there has been hardly any public agency that has had greater growth in the number of employees than in the police. Nevertheless, many feel insecure, and that police availability is too low. Norway needs strong universities and stronger and better universities. Since 1994, the number of scientific staff has increased by almost 40 pst. But the number of students has increased by just 10 pst. There are more teachers per year. student than before. Nevertheless, many students spend too long on their studies, and many fail to finish. This and many other examples are of the background for the Government to renew the public sector. For the public sector is not a grey and boring business. The public sector is all the important services in education, health, well-being, defence and police that we all depend on, and that is why we need to ensure that they are well-organised. We want to renew the public sector because it makes us better able to create a more fair society, with more security and less differences. But we also do it because a good and well-run public sector is important for Norwegian businesses and their value creation. Businesses depend on us being able to provide everyone with a good education, on stepping up the Norwegian research effort, on expanding our roads and other infrastructure – and on the availability of public services. That is why we are improving and renewing our public welfare and services. We're cleaning up the health system. Everybody gets stuck playing. We have proposed a comprehensive reform of hospitals. We're deleting NOK 18 billion in hospital debt and other liabilities in county municipalities. The population should receive a better health offer. We want more and cheaper kindergartens. Already this year, the state is increasing aid per year. children's gardening space. Next year we'll follow up with new money to get more and cheaper kindergartens. We need a better school, with more quality and more well-being. We have guaranteed the teachers a well-earned paycheck; in return, the students have received more education. We have introduced read tests, and the real subjects need to be strengthened. We want to return to the full-time student. Students will receive NOK 1000 more per year. month in grants if the Government's proposal goes through. It is the strongest improvement in study funding ever. In return, the scholarships shall not be paid until the examination has been completed and it will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the motivation for conducting the studies. We're reorganizing the defense, and we're reorganizing the police. It will give us a stronger defence and more police force in the neighbourhood. There will be less administration, less bureaucracy, more police and more security. We want 24-hour management, more services on the Internet and easier access to public offices in all municipalities. We remove rules, eliminate regulations, and give municipalities greater autonomy. Also there will be less bureaucracy and administration of. Some say that the government's work on renewal is just about structures and organisation. But it's wrong. Renewal is about services for the individual, about creating better offers for more people, about facilitating a better everyday life, about getting more back for the tax dollars. It's important for all of us who depend on good public welfare services, and it's important for Norwegian companies – our ability to create and our ability to share. One of the main challenges facing us as a nation is the management of Norway’s oil wealth. We're going to use oil money to boost well-being and secure jobs and value creation today. At the same time, we must ensure well-being and work for future generations as well. That is why the Government has proposed a long-term guideline for the use of oil money: that we should use the yield of the oil fund. It's like good forest management, we're going to cut the growth. Few things are more important for the development of Norway in the coming years than how we manage the revenues from oil and gas activities. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad upturn in Stortinget on our proposal for a new guideline on the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. It is a strength for the country that we are able to find common solutions and answers to major and important questions. It is also gratifying that it is in line with the new guidelines for the Bank of Norway and monetary policy. For the past few weeks, several parties have had their national meetings. There they have given their answers to what they think Norway needs. Some say that the time has come for increased differences and to give more to those who have the most of them. It does not mean the Workers' Party, and it does not mean the Government. Some believe that the time has come for excessive cuts in the sick pay system, and that long-term sick people will lose tens of thousands of kroner. It does not mean the Workers' Party, and it does not mean the Government. And some believe that the time has come for extensive cuts in Norwegian aid to the poorest in the poor world. It is also the Workers' Party and the Government disagree. For the Labour Party, the choice is clear: the long-term programme shows that we have good opportunities to further develop the welfare society and create an even better Norway, a Norway with smaller differences, better and stronger welfare systems, a Norway where we live in a diverse society and where we have the ability to take care of the environment. I think it is possible to build a majority for such a policy – a policy that both meets our need to create and our need to share, a policy that gives us both a strong public sector and a strong business life. In the next four years, Norway has made important choices. There may be developments for major differences, poorer common welfare schemes and more uncertainty. Or it could be a development for a safe economy, more and better well-being, and for a cooperation on innovation. The government wants to make use of Norway’s wide range of options. We invite you to cooperate widely on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e86	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e89	I agree with the Prime Minister in his initial remarks that the welfare society of Norway, of which we are largely proud, is built under broad political consensus. And it imposes on parties, either in government or in opposition, a responsibility to cooperate across party boundaries to further develop this welfare society. When the Christian People's Party for its part believes that there is a need for a different government from the current one, it is not primarily because of the objectives of the sitting working party government, but because we see in important policy areas that it is partly going in a different direction from what it verbally expresses. We see it in environmental policy. This government came to power because it would absolutely build highly polluting gas power stations that would make it more difficult to follow up our international environmental obligations. We see it in family policy, where we have a government that, because of a one-sidedness in financial support schemes, will reduce the freedom of choice of small children's families in the form of care for their children. We see it in rural policy, where we have a government that has also lowered important regional policy instruments, and in these days also leads a policy towards an important primary industry such as agriculture that makes housing in rural areas difficult. With regard to school policy, which is also widely agreed on in the coming years, we believe that there is a need both for internal and external upgrading of the school system, with emphasis on value-sharing and quality, and for external upgrading primarily in terms of education and school building. We now see that many school buildings around the country are decaying. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that we also need exceptional instruments where the state and the municipality can join together, such as: When it came to the reform of the elderly, in order to have schoolrooms upgraded, and not just refer it to a frequently frantic community economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e98	I fully agree with Mr Bondevik that we agree on many things. I think it's an advantage and a strength, and I'm among the politicians who think it's just stupid to construct bigger differences than it actually is. With regard to the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, it is that, in very many important and crucial issues of welfare policy and distribution policy, we have been united on the important choices. That makes me think that the center has more to gain by cooperating with the Workers' Party than by choosing to go right and cooperate with the Right and Advance Party. All of the things that Bondevik mentioned are matters where it is easier to find good solutions for the country with the Workers' Party than to choose to go to the Right and the Advance Party, whether we are talking about the environment, district policy or more about common welfare schemes, such as: a good public school for everyone. In terms of the environment, we agreed with the centre parties in most of the energy messages provided by the Bondevik government. We disagreed on one point, namely the question of using gas for power generation in Norway. In the Communication, the Government of Bondevik added to extensive imports of force – that was their response – among others. imports of power produced from Norwegian gas that we had exported to our neighbouring country. We believe that it is more environmentally friendly, not less environmentally friendly, to produce the power itself, instead of importing power from other countries, as the Bondevik government suggested in its Energy Communication. We also agreed on energy saving and many other important measures, but the centre disagreed with the right-wing parties. In the case of children, it was under the previous government that there was a sudden stop in kindergarten development. We are now presenting measures to relaunch kindergarten development and to reduce the rates. I am pleased that there is agreement on the measures notified by the Government. In the case of school, we are in the process of upgrading, among other things. in the case of teacher’s salaries and increased educational provision for students through better organisation of school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e111	The right-hand tax message is clear: enough is enough, tax and tax levels are going down. In the last six months, however, the Workers’ Party’s tax messages have not been as clear. They started with the highest tax increases in human memory. They followed up with a VAT reform that they thought was ready for implementation, and the papers have since been full of examples of strange border crossings. Then the Minister of Finance told us that the time had come not to increase the tax — and it turned out that some tax forms were going to increase. Then we were notified of a tax reform, but they wouldn't say what it was supposed to contain. And then we heard about the airline passenger charge, which ESA thought had to be changed, and the finance minister thought that the charges had to be raised in those places in the country where it was not paid. He could have chosen to put them down. Then the foreign minister traveled to Drammen and trained with Lineware. And after everyone else had told me that training moms were not life-making, the foreign minister – as if it were a whole new idea – told me that he had. Then I took part in a debate with the Prime Minister, where he said he was somewhat in agreement with the Right when it came to the top tax. And on Monday he was back at the beginning of the ‘Policy Quarter’ where he told us why we had to have a high tax burden. I have two questions: does the Prime Minister think that the Workers' Party's tax message has the necessary clarity? What are the voters actually expecting from the Workers' Party on the tax side, if the Workers' Party were to continue in government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e123	The world’s highest levels of taxation are Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Norway has almost as high taxes and taxes as our neighbouring Nordic countries, but not as high as their taxes. At the same time, there is no doubt that no matter what kind of overviews, reports or comparisons you make — at the latest, a comprehensive UN overview — trying to say which countries it is best to live in, which countries have the best welfare systems, and which countries do the best for their citizens, the answer is just Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway. And there is a certain connection between the Nordic countries having the world’s highest tax and tax levels — Norway is not entirely on top, we are below our neighbours — and at the same time, the countries where it is best to live for the vast majority of people. It's not that you can go in for 20–30–40 billion dollars in lower taxes, as the Right now hangs around, and at the same time claimed that we can take care of one of the world's best welfare societies. It's not related. Either it is that the Right will implement dramatic cuts in our collective arrangements — good public schools, universities, other welfare schemes — or right will promise significantly more than they will ever be in the vicinity of being able to meet in terms of reducing government revenue. We see some of that -- we've had a taste. To satisfy very little of the tax commitments of the Right, it has been suggested that long-term sick, cancer and road damage should lose NOK 30000 per year. An average employee with normal income and average sick leave loses NOK 4000 to NOK 5000 per year – much, much more than the ordinary employee will be relieved by the Right Tax Scheme. Ordinary people lose with Right Tax, because one tightens up important arrangements for ordinary people to give tax relief to those who have the most from before. It doesn't want the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e134	I would like to follow up on this with taxes and taxes. Does the Prime Minister agree that with regard to the comparison with Denmark, Finland and Sweden, there is a difference between Norway and Norway, since our neighbouring country has no surplus in its state budgets, while Norway now has more than DKK 200 billion in surplus? And – as the Prime Minister himself said – there is no lack of money that hinders some, there is a shortage of labour. Why in the world is it wrong, then, to implement some significant tax reliefs and tax reliefs for most people? While the revised national budget makes it clear that the surplus is going up by $10 billion, the Norwegian people are now told that the petrol price has risen. Why can't the government help to use part of the surplus to reduce taxes and taxes? It doesn't have to go beyond any other areas of expenditure if you do. We have an opportunity that none of the others have, to actually reduce taxes and taxes, so that most people get an advantage that it's a good economy. We also had the opportunity – as we suggested – to distribute shares in Statoil to the Norwegian people instead of charging them for the second time. My second question: The Prime Minister says that the teachers have received a well-deserved paylift. Does the Prime Minister agree, once they have been as reasonable as he himself boasts about the teachers, that it is time for the coming long-term to ensure that nurses and assistants receive a corresponding well-earned pay gap, so that, through wage fixing, we ensure access to the labour force in this sector that will become necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e143	I fully agree that there is a difference between Norway and Denmark. Denmark has higher taxes and taxes than Norway as a whole, and Denmark is not in a position to make visible how they can certainly finance future pensions and welfare obligations. It's Norway. And what's so unique is that we're among the few countries in the world that have led an economic policy that allows us to say that we should both improve the well-being and secure jobs today – to today's generations – and at the same time be able to set aside, so that we can say that we can stand for the obligations of popular security in 5 years, 10 years, 20 years and 30 years. There is hardly any other country that can do that, and that can show such good results in keeping people in work and expanding welfare arrangements step by step. That policy has been against the Progress Party every year, and they have always said that we have gone in the wrong direction. Nevertheless, health care has improved significantly, care for the elderly has improved significantly, and the purchasing power of all groups, including pensioners, has increased year by year. And then I think it's better to continue a responsible and tidy economic policy than to embark on the kind of experiments the Progress Party is dealing with, where you completely ignore the fact that the problem is not a lack of money, but just a lack of labour. Vice-Chancellor Tor Hersoug of the Society's Main Organization, who sometimes refers to as a witness of truth, has recently written an article in which there are some things I deeply disagree with, but he strongly warns against believing that you can only reduce taxes and taxes without reducing government expenditure. Then we get inflation, increased interest rates and decreased Norwegian businesses. We're warning you against that. That's why we won't do it. The fact that the Progress Party only overlooks that kind of very fundamental relationship in the economy is a problem for the Progress Party, but it is not a problem for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e152	Of course, it's not to get away from the fact that it's a problem for all of us that we have a combination of what most people see as a relatively high level of taxes and charges, and that many people don't feel that you get enough of the taxes and taxes you pay into the community. There the government is at a price enough to do what they call modernisation of the public sector. Then I'm not going to discuss the content of the modernisation that the Government is in the process of – there's no doubt that we agree on everything. But the point is that in some areas we see that there are huge unsolved tasks. The representative Bondevik asked questions about one such area, and I noticed that the Prime Minister did not answer his questions. If we are to be able to jointly address an ever-increasing demand for lower taxes, it is important that we take seriously the areas where the population feels more and more dissatisfied with what is being done. The Prime Minister said in his speech that there is ‘lack of hands and heads’, that it is pointless that people go unemployed and ended up inviting for broad cooperation. We would like to accept this invitation, and I have a challenge for the Prime Minister, precisely in line with what I also started, namely the dissatisfaction that many people express in some areas. LO Industrie has documented that there is approx. 3000 unemployed workers in the construction sector. At the same time, in the news on TV 2 yesterday evening we saw a building that has been isolated for several weeks, because the state needs NOK 100000 to set the road to this village in a condition that makes it possible to get to and from. We see that almost weekly the E10 is paved between Narvik and Bjerkvik, which endangers both life and health for those who run this road daily. And then we have thousands of hands available in that sector! My challenge to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister be involved in an initiative to get the 3,000 unemployed working to carry out the most necessary tasks in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e163	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that we are not going to get enough for the taxpayers. That's why we're busy getting more for the tax dollars. That's why from the first day we've been working on renewing the public sector, because then we can get more well-being for the money and resources we put in. But at the same time, I think we're going to agree that we're going to have a lot of money left. What we're left with is one of the world's best welfare societies, with its shortcomings and weaknesses, but there may not be any other country in the world that has better welfare offers combined to its inhabitants than Norway. It may be that some of our Nordic neighbours have it, but they do have about the same level of taxation that we have -- actually a little bit higher. So we get a lot left. But our ambition is to get even more back. That is why we will renew and improve our public welfare systems. Then it is clear that there are no taxes and taxes that are popular. Everyone would like to avoid paying taxes and still get well-being, but it is that we should have well-being, and then we have to pay taxes. It's connected. And what the government has done is to help us get a better and fairer system. That is why we have reduced the income tax for them with the lowest income, and a few years ago, the Workers' Party contributed to reducing overtime taxes from up to 70 pst. down to less than 50 pst., and we have proposed to adjust some charges that we believe have become unreasonable. For example, as the first government ever, we have reduced taxes on diesel and petrol. It was never done when we had bourgeois governments here in the country. We will propose further improvements in the tax system in order to get a fairer system, and relief for those who have the least. What we're warning against is giving great relief to those who have the most, so that, collectively, it has to be cut off from important welfare schemes for those who need them. With regard to the construction sector, the Government has no basis today to announce new measures beyond what is a continuation of the current budget in the revised national budget, and then we get back to any new measures in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e177	The government and Prime Minister Stoltenberg are now in the situation that it blows the north wind from all sides. It's a completely custom situation. It is clearly the situation in which the government would like to be in after the next major elections, too, for the Prime Minister said on 2 May that their option was a minority government from the Workers' Party without a binding cooperation agreement with what could be a majority in the UK. And then it's still going to blow the north wind from all sides. Then the Government will continue to be in the situation that they will have to be taxed, taxed, sector by sector with the modernisation projects. We believe that very many in Norway would like to participate in a large solidarity project, would like to be mobilised to participate in something larger than themselves, which sent on some frequencies other than the individual's wallet and the individual's payroll account. Many will join in and say, let's spend four years doing the most important thing first. Schools and education for all people are the most important thing we can invest in for the future, so that all people recognize themselves in an education offer, so that the abilities that are good from before are fertilised and cultivated further and can all grow. Many people want to participate in a project that says: Look, in one of the richest countries in the world, we have to stand up so that everyone has the same opportunities, we have to fight differences, we have to be a good country to live in for everyone. A lot of people would be on a project that said: Let's now forget about the gas tax, let's get a public transport that is such that even the Kosmo Council would like to take the train. It would have been a vision to get! Why in the world does the government not devote Stoltenberg to a large project that can lead to a little heartache, and that can invite the majority of the Stortinge to commit cooperation for four years, so that the world's richest country can do the most important thing first?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e184	The government is betting on a big project. It's taking care of, further developing and improving one of the world's best welfare societies. And we do that both by expanding the welfare systems and by renewing them. And there's no small project! My experience is that those who see us taking care of the health care system feel that what we are doing there is quite great compared to 100,000 employees – our very largest business, namely hospitals. Those I meet in the Defense Department also think that there is quite a great transformation you are facing. The ones I meet in the Police Department also state that there is no little change we are now doing, and the quality reform we have for higher education is the biggest reform of higher education in very many years, and the students who get a proper boost in student funding, I think it is an important improvement in an important welfare system. So there are many major reforms going on, all of which are moving in the same direction: how to build and create a better welfare society for the people who live here, while at the same time taking care of a safe and good economy. It's a big project. And whether the Halvorsen gets a heart attack or not, I'm not going to think about it, but I mean, it creates a society with more warmth and more heart space, and it's a society we want. Then I notice that someone in his line today has thought that the government has too high taxes, some say in their line that they think we are about to lie down, while Kristin Halvorsen – as far as I understand it – thought we should have higher taxes. And then it's an expression that the Workers' Party has a long tradition that we can rule the country in a minority position and have a majority for a responsible and good policy, which means that over many years we have taken steps and brought this society forward – both in terms of value creation, the ability to create, and the ability to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e193	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e196	The last Prime Minister said, and what Halvorsen said in his reply was probably in code language – a reference to the internal debate in the Workers' Party on whether the Workers' Party should invest in coalitions, among others. with SV, or whether to go to bet only on a minority government from the Workers' Party. And here there have been changing signals from the Workers' Party and from the Prime Minister himself. I understand that Kristin Halvorsen has been very disappointed that the Prime Minister seems to have found that a coalition between the Workers' Party and SV – and the Center Party, as Kristin Halvorsen wanted – is not up to date. I understand why the Prime Minister has reached such a conclusion. But we also record with interest that there are prominent people in the Workers' Party and in the Central Government of the Workers' Party who are responsible for something else, so here at least there is no long-term, clear line from the Government Party. For most, Norway is a good country to live in. The welfare community has been built to a large extent by political agreement on key priorities. The setting of the Government’s long-term programme for the next major period also shows a high degree of agreement on the areas to be prioritised. And we can and must cooperate on this in Norwegian policy, across party boundaries and government constellations. When the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a change of government in Norway, it is not because the general objectives of the Workers' Party are so flawed, but because the practical policies in several areas go in the wrong direction in relation to stated visions. Let me give you some examples of that. According to the long-term programme, the government has the vision to provide all children and young people with safe and healthy growth conditions. But then, alongside strengthening public institutions, we also need to strengthen the position of the family. Infant parents must choose their own form of care for their children. It shall not be directed by public authorities through financial support schemes, as the Workers' Party provides in practice. That is why we want a different family policy, with freedom of choice requiring the provision of both more reasonable childcare facilities and cash support. The government has further demonstrated that Norway will have an innovative business with strong businesses and safe jobs. Now we have seen, not least in the draft state budget that came last autumn, that the government has put up a rather business-friendly policy in practice. The government proposed a high tax burden on business, which is the opposite of creating strong businesses and secure jobs. The central parties succeeded in correcting the worst of these imbalances by means of the budgetary agreement. But we need a more offensive industrial policy than what the Government uses. The government says it has a vision of a society that takes care of nature and our common environment, both nationally and internationally. But the Labour Party government came to power because, in alliance with the Right, it will build polluting gas power plants, which will make it more difficult to meet our international commitments to reduce climate change emissions. The government says it will support voluntary work, but in practice, the government, which, when submitted to the government budget last autumn, has made proposals that would have meant worse working conditions for many non-governmental organisations. Fortunately, the center parties were able to fix this too. We are now in the year of Volunteering. In spite of this, the Government has not properly followed up commitments from the budget agreement last autumn on a review of the effects of the VAT reform on non-governmental organisations. We also see in other areas that the government is moving in the wrong direction, for example. in the case of a centralist school policy and in the case of a church policy with a tendency to state overrule the Norwegian Church as a religious community. There is therefore a need for a different course and for a new government. In 1997, the government’s long-term programme of recording a government change that gave the country a central government represented just the setting. For this reason, it is politically important that the centre parties once again have signed up in comprehensive joint comments in today's position, under the heading 'Centre - Takes responsibility again'. That's exactly what we're ready for. Our setting indicates a different direction within, among other things. family policy, environmental policy, business policy, district policy and European policy in relation to the workers' party government. In Norway we have relatively many parties, and no party alone can achieve a majority. Cooperation across batch boundaries is required. In this way, it is in itself valuable that the three centre parties have developed so much common policy. Then we disagree in a number of areas, but we have shown that we can reach agreed solutions both through negotiations in the opposition and in government cooperation. Some people are now trying to depreciate a central government. I think that these wise of harm should be careful in that way. Even I have such a good experience with a central government and in the management of it that we would like to try the option again. But of course we are dependent on the election results and the discussions that will then take place. The old block policy and the division of Norwegian policies are over. The Centre represents a separate option that has its strength partly by pursuing an economic policy in the necessary balance between the public and private sectors, different from the parties to the right and the left for us, which focuses unilaterally on one of the two factors, and partly by giving priority to other parties, with greater emphasis on value issues, on environmental and district policies, on the voluntary sector and on the activation of local democracy. We also presented our own action packages in relation to the long-term programme on important parts of these areas. In the joint comments on the long-term programme, the centre parties also indicate that we will continue to develop the key welfare goods, perhaps the most important of which are healthcare, care for the elderly and the school. With regard to health care, the Labour Party is now primarily concerned by the state acquisition of hospitals by day. I think it doesn't matter to patients if the hospitals are owned by the state or county, if they don't get the treatment they need and have the right to. Therefore, it is more important that we focus on monitoring where the deficiencies are greatest in the healthcare system, namely those areas that are neglected – psychiatry, cancer care and the acquisition of more modern equipment at hospitals. This can help cut the queues for healthcare. Therefore, the centre parties will focus on following up the escalation plans that we ourselves presented to the Storing in these areas. In the case of care for the elderly, we are now in an extension period of cooperation between the State and the municipality. This has not been carried out in all municipalities, and we have to make sure that this happens. We are now facing a period when we also have to take new impetus within the school system. There is a need for both an internal upgrade in the form of a stronger emphasis on quality and value transfer, and an external upgrade of the school with a resource supply is needed for the purchase of more modern learning materials and the upgrading of school premises. In many municipalities, school buildings have expired over a long period of time. Of course, it hangs, among other things. together with a tight community economy. I don't think we can expect that this problem will be solved alone by referring to the local economy. I think it will be time and space for, as the investment tree in the care of the elderly begins to wane according to the plans we have adopted, that the state and the municipality can also join forces to upgrade the school buildings and teaching material in a way that seems fair to the municipalities that, after all, have prioritised this relatively high in recent times. I asked the Prime Minister a concrete question as to whether he was open to such a common virtue between the state and the municipality. I got no answer to that. But I would like to re-address the challenge to the Government and to the Workers' Party, in an attempt that we can gather on something that is concrete and important for the development of the important pillar of the Norwegian welfare community called school and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e233	The safest thing to say about the results after the election is that it's relatively uncertain. And then, of course, you can market both more and less likely government alternatives. Of course, you can also position yourself in stages and in different options. It's a free choice for any party. I would also like to record that the credibility of the centre alternative is not entirely independent of the fact that a free and independent press refers from the political debates and the national meetings that have been held. What is certain, however, is that the country will have a budget to be adopted, including for the autumn – for 2002. Lars Sponheim believed in Trondheim that it was completely out of date to cooperate on a budget presented by the government of Stoltenberg. On questions on the radio yesterday morning about Bondevik agreed, he replied: Yes, I agree with his analysis. In the newspaper today, Bondevik says that the question came a little ‘urgent’, but that he essentially agrees with Sponheim, whereas Enoxsen believes that it is the budget that is being presented, which shows what it is possible to cooperate on as regards the budgetary procedure for the autumn. This shows that Sponheim believes that it is logical to seek cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party. It is not Enoxsen immediately willing to be on, and for Bondevik it came a little ‘urgent’. I think it's important that we get a clarification of it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e242	It is true that about the safest thing about the results of the harvest is that there is an uncertain outcome. There is, however, one thing that is certain of the election result, and I am deeply sorry, and that is that Tom Thoresen will not be the biggest representative from the fall of. Had I had any power over it, I would have liked to have made sure that at least it was different from what is now happening. But then to the question of what will happen to the autumn. What I said on the radio and at that point has repeated in the newspaper today is that I mainly agreed with Sponheim's analysis. I have elaborated on this in the Newspaper that if the government situation is still unclear at the time the budget is presented, I will see it as unnatural about the centre, which has ambitions to replace the workers' party government, three would be exempt from a proposed working party budget. If, on the other hand, the government situation was to be fully resolved at the time, it could of course be different. We have shown responsibility in the opposition and have contributed to budgetary solutions, as we did last autumn, because we were given a strong stamp on it and could thus take responsibility for the result. But I have to say that I ask myself a little more questioning about what the Workers' Party has been thinking in the next big time – it can be clarified later in the debate – if there is to be a new central government. For the Prime Minister and others have repeatedly said that such a government will have to lean to the right. In this case, it must mean that the Workers' Party will resign from budgetary negotiations and possible budgetary settlements and make a new central government dependent only on the right-wing parties. At my discretion, it would be irresponsible. Then one would be back so to say in the Jagland period – the first two years of this big period. I sincerely hope the Workers' Party will not do that! They should contribute and be constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e251	Let me start by asking Kjell Magne Bondevik how he sees that there would be a clarification on the government issue before the budget procedure for the autumn. He has made it quite clear in various media performances that it is not appropriate for the Christian People's Party to sit with the Advance Party to discuss these issues, even though it would be a majority of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party and – if necessary – the Left. How does he feel, then, that these questions will be clarified before the budgetary procedure? I have a little bit of a problem understanding that. It might have been interesting if Bondevik could clarify it. He can't expect the will and wish of the Advancement Party to be so very positive when you don't even want to discuss these questions with us. So to another question. If, as Sponheim has stated, the three central parties may take the same position on the Labour Party Government during the budgetary procedure of the harvest as he himself has accused the Workers' Party of having the first two years of this period – since, therefore, because of one case, namely cash support, they would not have discussions with the Government – that is, in the event of the attitude to which it is based, if we do not even want to discuss a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party Government. Then I have a question for a matter we've been dealing with. This concerns the cash support and the freedom of choice for families with children, with which Mr Bondevik also started his contribution now. When can we expect the Christian People's Party to extend the freedom of choice for all families with children under school age so that the principle of freedom of choice is made equal for those who have children both at the age of two, three, four and five? We'd like to have it fast in the next period. When can we expect support from the Christian People's Party to expand the cash support system upwards in the age groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e260	First, the question of how it may be possible to clarify a government situation before coming to the budgetary procedure for the harvest. We have more examples in later political history of one having received it, and that would surprise me a little bit about, for example. The Progress Party – since it was Hagen who had a line – shall sit still and wait for a case, if necessary the budget, for the autumn, before clarifying how they will deal with a government option. But at least I see two possibilities for this to happen earlier. One is that the Labour Party should have such a bad election result – and the Gallups by day are not very good for the government party – that the Prime Minister chooses to take the consequences of this and, even if he did not, as Igland did in 1997, he has made a certain requirement for withdrawal in advance. But I want to believe that there is a lower tolerance limit for this government as well, and that there can be a situation where they take the consequences of it and go. Then a new government must be formed. If this becomes clear quickly, the party must sit down and negotiate. And the center is ready! Secondly, if not, of course, parties that constitute an alternative – such as the centre – can, during the period after a choice and until the Stortinget, negotiate a clear government platform, and make it clear that we are prepared to take over and seek power. Other parties to which the Advance Party may be entitled may decide. It's happened before. If the Progress Party would then choose to say that we do not take a stand on it, then one has in practice still chosen worker party government – and that will be interesting in the event. In the case of cash support, we have not programmed to go on with it up in the age groups. On the other hand, we have programmed that we want to increase the amount, so that it keeps slightly more up-to-date with what was required, that is, the corresponding state subsidy to the kindergartens. Instead, we have given priority to other family policy measures, such as increased paper circulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e271	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative and parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Mr Bondevik, for having discovered the situation in school. Now we've been here for many years and told you that the school needs an upgrade, not just a little bit of a climb. Last time in the last election – two years ago – SV was an irresponsible party when we said that a national effort was needed to renovate the school, and that we should start with high school. So the question is whether the voters should deal with solid fish or solve promises before the election. In fact, there is a proposal from SV for treatment in the UK now, a proposal for a government contribution to escalating and upgrading primary school over a four-year period – we start with secondary school – at DKK 2.5 billion per year. years. That's not one ear too much. At the same time, in order to ensure diversity, well-being and everything we know, it is necessary to ensure that safe young people get the maximum amount of knowledge. I would like to know if these new notes from the Christian People's Party now mean that SV can get a majority for the proposal, at least support from the Christian People's Party. Then there's one interesting thing that has happened in this debate on the long-term program, and that's the striking lack of interest from the Right to take lines on the Christian People's Party. Now, there's also a variety of polls so that the Right can get a better choice than the Centre parties together. I want to know what Bondevik's plan B is going on. If the election results in the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party having a majority in the Storting, and the Right is larger than the centre parties together, will the Christian People's Party and Kjell Magne Bondevik enter into negotiations with the Right to form an alternative government? And will they lurk the way back to Carl I. Hagen to beg for his acceptance for such a government formation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e280	In the range of affections in this relatively mild debate we have had today, I would like to give SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, a homage back to being steadfast in the situation in school. But to claim that we should first have discovered the situation in school is a picture of the situation of the Christian People's Party, and the center parties at all. First of all, when we were in government, we found out that we had to find room in the budget both for a follow-up to the retirement plan that had been adopted before our time, and not least for the three health plans that we ourselves presented, where there is an enormous need: psychiatry, cancer care and equipment acquisitions to hospitals. We have to be clear about that. We didn't give the same room in other areas as we would like. In the autumn of 1999, however, we presented a stepping-up plan for some priority areas, including the school, especially ICT, information and communication technologies, and measures for better continuing training for teachers, especially in high school, and I agree with Kristin Halvorsen that this is where the shoe may be printing the most. We were set up, and we also said, as the budgets made room for it, when the strongest priorities of health care and the elderly would start to level out, the school would be the next area to get a massive escalation. That's why this isn't something we've suddenly discovered, but it's a line of what we've said, and we're set to follow it. Of course, I do not process Document No. Eight proposals here in the Chair. What we want to put in resources for schools in the future, we're going to fit in with our budget. We do not intend to conduct budgetary discussions between the budgets, and we also have a budgetary agreement with the Labour Party for this year. With regard to the government situation, the Christian People's Party has a clear alternative, that's the center option. We're betting we're going to be bigger than other alternative groupings – also right – after the election. It's not gallupes that decide, and that's why I don't want to speculate on Kristin Halvorsen's questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e294	In the light of observations, the President notes that the pulpit is still moving up and down silently, and must be warned not to break the political joystick on the right. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e299	What is, of course, the reality of this change of lines, as after countless other debates on the same topic, is that the Workers' Party as an alternative is clear. Otherwise, there are some unanswered questions. It simply means that the voters have in their hands to solve this question and provide the necessary clarifications. I am very pleased with that. So what has to and should be at the center now is what the parties want. And if we're going to look at what the real challenge is, I think we can say it so that it's triggering the big opportunities that Norway has. The potential for profit and potential for loss are both quite large. In a world of open borders and with a tough and fast technological change, quick and clear action is needed to cope with this situation. I think it was Jan Syse who in his time said it like this: it doesn't help if you're on the right path if you're just sitting there. So it's very important that you're willing to do the right thing in time. It's not just about recognizing what to do. Now I understand that the government's self-image is that there are a lot of reforms going on. In meeting with the Federation of Municipalities, I can see that the Government feels this is the case, but in meeting the reality and the things to be solved, the Government is quite far behind in a number of areas. Just think about how long it took to get a real energy reform from the Government. Think of the rather vague grips that are now being done to provide us with more labour, which is, of course, the main challenge in the Norwegian economy. Think about the fact that we've already had two difficult investigations about pensions, and then the government starts to investigate the jam once instead of making decisions. Consider what is now said in the setting of the need to preserve Norwegian competitive business, and at the same time, the biggest tax and tax increases in human memory, and have no recourse to them. At the same time, it is possible to boast that a defence reform has been put in place, which is also necessary for many years of famine, not least created by the Workers' Party. This is why the reforms put on the table by the Government are late and too small in relation to the major challenges facing Norway. Of the steps that need to be taken, first of all, to get a completely different and definite commitment to school, education and research. It is true that much is good in Norwegian school, but that much is good is a goal that is not good enough. We need to make sure that we have one of the world's best education systems to offer our children. But that means we have to do a lot more when it comes to providing a real teacher education, recruiting teachers. We need to provide more freedom and a greater challenge for schools and more depth in the education of teachers. The Labour Party gives the answer, yes, it's about hot food, school leisure arrangements and a fight against the City Council in Oslo. It's too bad. Even in the areas that the Government makes up its own, e.g.: in the case of kindergarten development, the figure is 275 million. kr under the draft budget of the Right. It shows that there is a lot of rhetoric and little reality. The Prime Minister explained in one of his replies that he has now moved on to a line in which he defends the high-tax line of the Government. That is at least a clear answer. However, it is based on the illusion that Norway can be a tax policy different country, and it cannot bear, it has the Workers' Party recognised earlier. And there's a lot to tackle – it's about the top tax, where the Prime Minister agrees a little with the Right, and it's not least about the big fees, it's about electricity, rush time charges, airline seat charges and what you have to find. Modernisation needs to continue. Nor here dare the Workers' Party to move on. Imagine if you had dared to put down the county council and decided to add ownership to the hospitals of the state! And what do we do to make sure that we have room for a vital competitive business? This is perhaps one of the most burning questions, not because there is no need for conversion into Norwegian business, but because we need a vital business. It's about this nation's ability to create new and to adapt to a world of rapid change. That's what's going to determine our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e322	No one is well in doubt that the Right in the future is going to talk a lot about tax. The representative Petersen also started today by saying that it was important to talk about what the parties want, and we've all come to realize that tax will probably be right to talk a lot about. But it costs to win out in the tax debate, so the Right has started an advertising campaign, I've seen, which is going to be involved in financing their tax action, where they turn to different professional groups and actually ask for support to get a little bit of traction in Right's tax action. What surprises me is that in such an advertisement, Right also has an invitation to nurses. For as the Right says, "But it bothers us in the Right that ordinary people with very common incomes are taxed as if they were stone rich." It is regrettable that this tax advertisement to the Right does not say anything about the back of the medal. It says nothing about the fact that a municipal nurse, most of which is, with an average annual income of NOK 252,000, does not have a top tax today, that with the Right Taxlift they get a tax reduction of a few hundred, while the Right on the other hand is willing to take from the same nurses several thousand a year by reducing the sick pay. Because, according to the organisation of these nurses, an average sick leave for a nurse is added in the municipal sector 10-12 days divided over the year, and there are many thousands of lost income. And if he/she is so unfortunate to be diagnosed for an entire year, we/she know that the effect is dramatic, then he/she loses 25 000 kroner and more with the Right. So my question to Petersen's representative is: don't bother the Right, doesn't it bother the Right at all that their overall approach to the economy has such an effect on these professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e329	I have to admit that I am wondering about the hollowness of the Workers' Party's argument regarding the sickness pay scheme. One should be aware that when Hill-Marta Solberg uses the example of those who are sick one year, she overlooks completely carelessly the fact that on day 366 the income falls like a rock. It's the Workers' Party for. That's why the argument she's adding becomes pretty hollow. When people become unemployed, the income falls by one-third. It is also quite right for the Workers' Party. But then there are no limits to how much rhetoric you take out in an area that is widely recognized that something has to be done about, and that social democratic governments elsewhere have done something about it. This is getting too fast. But then to the tax question itself, because the interesting thing is that Hill-Marta Solberg started with an income of NOK 252,000, and when it comes to income, we were together at that point. But what Hill-Marta Solberg forgets is that the fee component is an important part of the Right bet. And when one in Norway charges as much as one does, there is something that hits blindly, hits independently of income, and places a rather heavy burden on the individuals who have to pay. And so I'm surprised that the Workers' Party often only talks about taxes. The right is talking about taxes and taxes at the same time, there is a total burden this is about, and we are therefore getting out of it well in relation to all income groups. And I don't think Hill-Marta Solberg is going to underestimate the reaction that's out there, it's enough, and we're going to meet it in all income groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e336	I hope that SV notices that if Right does not take a line on us, we take a line on them. I would like to point out to the representative Petersen that one of the reasons why we get so much pressure on this with taxes and taxes is that some politicians may release the voters when it applies to this particular area. I want to underline before I go on in the line that this is not an invitation to government negotiations, I feel the need to say so after all that has been said by a lot of people in the hall before today. The right is big on the polls, and they want to go to government. Then they must also have thought that what they are proposing will be passed on to the Storting. I don't know how many billion right would want in treasures. Some operate with 19 billion, others operate with 40 billion, and then they show that they have always had a budget that has been balanced. Yes, but 6-7 billion of these money that has got their budgets balanced, goes on the sick pay system, and it's a formidable cut. Two to three billion, or one to two, as the case may be, have gone to aid. There are also no plurals in this room. And then my question to the Right is, who is going to take the cost of these 19 billion, or 40 billion, as one should cut, when the frames are not going to increase something special? There are no multiples to take 6-7 billion on sick pay, nor are there multiples to cut help for the poorest in the world. At least in some way, the voters will have to get answers to who needs to be cut. It is easy to say that we are going to cut a lot of taxes and taxes, and I myself can participate in some of the cuts, but here the dimensions are so large that the voters must have a right to know who is going to be affected by this when such large amounts are going to be tax-free.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e347	I don't disagree that this isn't the place to negotiate, I'm not going to try it, but I just want to remember the story. We had good experience of gradually bringing the tax burden down to the 1980s, and 1999 was the year when we really got pressure on budgetary cooperation – yes, it was the only year in the 1990s when the number of people paying top taxes went down. So we've together been able to push for a positive development that gives me hope for the future. Then I got the impression that Answerstad Haugland thought that I thought it was a problem to get a pressure on the tax issues. I just have to admit that I think it's absolutely brilliant to get them as central to the debate as we do, because it makes an important question out there. And I have the impression that large parts of the political class are a little out of sync with the people on that question. I think you might want to think about that a little bit more carefully. With regard to the sources of tax relief, you might say that there are three important sources here. One is redispatching in the year's budgets. It's shown to the right, as it was correctly pointed out, every year that we get to, and that's why we have a high degree of credibility at that point. So it's about the economic growth that comes every year. Of course, it will be an important source of tax relief. There is no reason for it to go mainly for public consumption. And as far as I can see, I guess Hågstad Haugland is also thinking in those directions, if I don't understand the setting completely wrong. Then there is also a good part that can be achieved by modernising public enterprises, and that is also an important source. Imagine if you had had a spine to shut down the county council, to do something essential in terms of this difficult planning bureaucracy we have, etc. So here are some possibilities. So I think that a systematic, long-term collaboration would create a completely different slimmer nation that will be more at stake, and I think we all will enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e358	I have understood that the Right is following the Labour Party and the Ministry of Finance in terms of the view on the budget balance and not least the view that the use of money over the state budget works equally, no matter what the money is spent on. Oil wealth is now relocated to financial assets abroad. Is the Right agree that in certain situations it may be reasonable to relocate some of this wealth into capital in Norway, when this can be done either by spending money abroad or abroad, for example. the purchase of hospital equipment, which will increase the efficiency of the Norwegian healthcare system, or the utilisation of available capacity in Norway? Right now we have a very good example of how this can be done. We have confirmed that there are more than 3,000 unemployed in the construction industry, and the industry itself says that 80–90 pst. of the heavy installation equipment now available — i.e. not in use. Does the Right agree that, in such a situation, it may be reasonable to use a few billion of the capital we have abroad to improve the infrastructure in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e369	With regard to the 3,000 unemployed in the construction industry, I have to say that the Monsen is well aware that over many years, the Right has put a significantly greater pressure on the development of infrastructure in Norway than the majority in the United Kingdom has done. In every budgetary procedure, we have focused on following up what we have promised in the past in terms of investments in transport. We are going to follow up on what we have stated this year in the Transport Plan. This we have provided room for in our ordinary budgets, because we believe it is such an important task. And I'm proud that the Right in many ways is the road party rather than some in Norway. When it comes to the question of the use of oil money, I just want to remind you that we were among the parties that voted for this extra foreign billion, which I think in many ways was an interesting experiment, also because it got a lot of free capacity here at home. But then I have to say that one of the most important steps we can now take, and as I think we should take, is that we should get a proper pension reform. I think that's a security reform for the public interest, and I think that's one of the most important and most important things we do. And so now that we're really housekeepers with what we have here at home, that we see in our eyes that what's a main question -- well, maybe the most important question -- is to get more labour here in the country, or else we'll have problems. And then it's awfully sad that the party of progress to those degrees falls off because they don't dare, for example. opening up labour immigration. Just such a position helps to create problems domestically in Norway. It is not the money that is primarily the problem, it is the labour force, and the Progress Party is shadowing away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e382	This debate on the 2002-2005 long-term programme provides so far no new political clarifications, clarifications that could say something about the parliamentary situation into a new enlargement period. On the other hand, it shows that the parties use the long-term programme as an opportunity to clear the batch profile more than as an opportunity to prepare grounds for political clarification. More than half of the setting is also specific comments from the batch fractions. The centre batches provide more than 50 pages of joint comments, which should be a kind of centre policy platform and for a centre reorganization during the next major period. So is this clarifying? No, it's my answer, it's definitely not clarifying. This is a common comment that is so general that most of the parties might agree most of the time. Here's none of the unexplained things taken up. While the Financial Committee has been working on the establishment of the long-term programme, the three central parties have held their national meetings at the same time. Before these national meetings, no one other than the centre saw a new central government as realistic. After the three national meetings have been held, there is reason to ask whether it is not now that the centre no longer believes in its own alternative. When both the Christian People's Party and the Left have opened up possible government cooperation with the Right, that is the truth. And the representative Jan Petersen has good reason to say good-bye to that situation, as he did in his post today. After hearing Mr Bondevik's contributions today, there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party will be in government, and that Mr Bondevik would like to be Prime Minister again – but for what kind of government and for what policy is rather unclear. I have no hope that this will be clarified through today's debate. In all probability, there will be an unresolved question in the forthcoming election campaign. However, something important is happening today. The Labour Party Government's proposal for new economic policy guidelines is widely supported here in the Grand Duchy. It's very positive, and it's important. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, together with the Workers' Party, adopt a new rule of action that says that they should use the real returns of the Oil Fund, an important premise for economic policy is established. Given that the majority also say that business cycle should be taken into account – and the economic cycle is likely to be the same for all the games – there is therefore a consensus on the scope of the game. There must be a basis for saying that this is an important clarification that provides a high level of predictability for the governance of economic policy in the future. But even though the parties agree on the outer framework, the differences are large, in particular the Right notes its tax promises. Within the same framework, their long-term tax policy, as they themselves describe it, will give less revenue to the common fund, equivalent to over 40 billion kroner. These are tax commitments that are then to be financed for crowns through reduced expenditure on public welfare. In other words, the right-hand tax medal has a brutal backside. As we know Right-wing budgets here in the UK, at the latest from the current year's budget, this means a dramatic reduction in sick pay – several have pointed it out today – that means a sharp cut in aid, that means cutting agricultural transfers and in rural measures, to mention something. So the problem of Right-wing Economic Policy is not their position on the framework, there are the patents. The irresponsible goes in the Right way to finance his rusty tax promises. I can't understand it otherwise than that the parties that now might dream of government with the Right must first above an abyss in order to agree on these questions. Last night in the NRK’s ‘Policy Quarter’ yesterday, Bondevik claimed that we need a tax level about the present in order to secure a proper welfare society. He repeated the same thing today. The Labour Party agrees. For the Workers' Party, a main policy objective will be to further develop the Norwegian welfare society. That is why we do not promise large tax havens. We want a working life with space for everyone. We promise kindergarten, half of parental pay, a better school and a good health care. Then it remains to be seen whether the desire for government is more important than the political opportunity to secure a proper welfare society, as Mr. Bondevik put it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e400	The Labour Party's parliamentary leader was concerned with the comments of the centre parties in today's position, and felt that there were many open questions. I don't think one should underestimate the importance of such comprehensive joint comments, they were in 1997 the actual recording of the government change we got that year. The joint comments from the centre parties this time are actually more comprehensive and concrete than they were in 1997, and I think we have found a good balance between the fact that the parties are going to elections on their own programmes and that we are developing a lot of common policies. But this is something the Workers' Party does not have experience in. After all, they have made the matter of government cooperation with other parties just a matter of theory – so far, and never tested it in practice in modern political history. So the representative Hill-Marta Solberg wondered if the desire for government is more important than politics. It could be a good approach to my question. Environmental policy and, in particular, climate policy distinguishes the Workers' Party from the Centre. The working party obviously wanted the government to go in to increase the pollution of greenhouse gases by wanting to build gaseous power plants. In a radio interview just after Easter this year, the Prime Minister created a ambiguity about the Government's willingness to follow up the Kyoto agreement on climate change mitigation due to the opposition of the new US president to this agreement. And it wasn't just us in the center that reacted. The Labour Party's own member of the Environment Committee in Stortinget, Gunn Karin Gjul, responded when she said in the evening post on 18 April that she had expected the Prime Minister to be far more offensive than he has shown in climate policy. Instead of braking, Gjul believes that Norway needs to invest even more. My question to the Labour Party's parliamentary leader is: will the Labour Party now slow down efforts to reduce climate change emissions if the United States does not accede to the Kyoto agreement? Will the Workers' Party have President Bush decide Norway's efforts in the fight to reduce climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e413	I know to the extent that the representative Bondevik does not like to hear it, but the fact is that what happened a little over a year ago was that the government Bondevik came into the Stortingen and actually sought relief because they tried to force a majority in place in a case where one was very aware of what was the same majority's position on the question of gas power plants. And as has also been pointed out in the previous line change today, it was in connection with the matter that was then being dealt with, precisely the Workers' Party and the Centres that agreed on most, and it was precisely on the basis of a document submitted by the Bondevik government. So there was one point in the question of what was the right policy on the environment on the gas power side that separated. I also think that the representative, Mr Bondevik, should be reminded of that. It was Bondevik who promoted a cabinet question here in Stortinget well knowing what majority he was dealing with. It's also part of the story. So to the question. No, it will never be such that the environmental policy of the Workers' Party will be governed neither by Bush nor by others who may have power in the United States. But what is nevertheless a reality in the global context is that it will be difficult for an international community to achieve its goals unless the United States does its part of the job. I also believe that the representative Mr Bondevik must come to this conclusion. If we are to achieve good results in terms of the climate situation, we are dependent on the fact that the United States is doing its part of the job. And why? Well, because they account for the greater part of the emissions. When they are responsible for about 25 pst. of emissions, it goes without saying that it has a negative impact on global environmental policy if the US does not do its job. That was exactly the relationship that the Prime Minister also pointed out. And I am quite convinced that the representative, Mr Bondevik, also knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e420	Some of the features of this four-year period that are now coming to an end are a lack of stability in terms of business framework conditions. The working party has made the most of its efforts to weaken the framework conditions of competitive business. We have seen this through several budgetary procedures, and it is felt that for every six months this is the subject of renewed assessments. We know that large parts of Norwegian competitive business are located in the districts. The representative of Solberg was concerned with district policy and transfer and lack of transfer to the districts. The fishing industry is located in the districts. There is the farming industry, where the Workers' Party will now charge hundreds of millions of kroner in order to allow them to at all. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is located in the districts, the Workers' Party will introduce hundreds of millions of DKK in electricity charges to weaken those conditions. The operators of the maritime clusters are located in the districts, supplier industries, seafarers, shipping companies, etc. – that's how you can keep going. The main attack on housing in the districts is the Workers' Party, through its almost monomanic attack on the framework conditions of the business community there. Then you're going to compensate for this with a "plaster" of 200-300 million. kr more to the SND, and then you're going to give a couple of hundred million more to the farmers in an agricultural settlement to compensate for the bad conscience you might have for the same districts. My question to the Labour Party's parliamentary leader is: Does the representative of Solberg not see that transfers, intravenously, to the districts are in no way preferable to giving business in the same districts framework conditions that enable them to survive, that the settlement can continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e431	I think maybe the representative Gabrielsen on the Right would be more cautious about attacking in relation to the framework conditions, and not least linked to industry. The 1980s was a decade when the Right had considerable political power in Norway, when, in fact, they had long periods of government power. And we went into a phase where we experienced a dramatic decline in Norwegian industry. Greater degradation than we had in that period, you should look for a long time! Then tens of thousands of industrial jobs were actually lost, and we got into a very difficult situation for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian business. It's a situation that we know has been reversed. It is not despite the Labour Party's policies; on the contrary, it is because of the Labour Party's policies. The Labour Party has led a policy not least in relation to business, not least in relation to wage formation that has contributed to a recovery in our business and that has brought us to where we are today, that today in this debate in many speeches we have heard that we are one of the societies in the world that have the best opportunities. And we've managed to get such a framework for our business that we're probably the country in the world that has the highest employment – at least in Europe, but I actually believe in the world, over 80 pst. And this then uses the representative Gabrielsen as an example that there is no policy that makes it possible to do business in this country. Of course it does! Today, the situation is that our business is actually screaming for labour. So, for tools related to the districts. Yes, I mean in fact, and the Workers' Party believes that it is a both – and. Of course, general framework conditions for districts are important. That's why we also have special tools associated with, for example, Nord-Troms and Finnmark on tax and on the fee side. That's why we have had a differentiated employer's fee. But the effects of the Right Policy, with dramatic cuts in agricultural transfers and the removal of most of the district policy instruments, would seriously impact many of the districts' businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e445	Norway currently has a significantly lower road standard than the other countries in Europe. A study conducted by the NHO shows that transport in Norway is 50 pst. more expensive than in the EU. Such cost differences are, in the long term, destructive to business. The cost differences are mainly due to high charges, poor road standards leading to closed mountain crossings in winter, trailer rollovers, waiting time for a ferry, vehicle damage, etc. Time and again, the Party has proposed to increase the appropriations for road construction and maintenance of the road network. The working party has repeatedly refused to spend more money on road construction. And the standard answer has been that this leads to pressure in the Norwegian economy. The needs are enormous. Only in Solberg's homeland are there major racial problems at E6 in Narvik, where fortunately life has not yet passed. But on a road as busy as the E6, it can only be a matter of time. Now, the situation is once again that this year it looks like we're getting an additional income from oil extraction on the other side of NOK 40 billion. That is, we have money that can be used without using the money we are going to spend on the future. Then it's like we have free hands in the construction sector. People go unemployed. 3,000 workers! That is, we have free work capacity. Can the representative, Solberg, explain to me how pressure is being exerted in the Norwegian economy by putting these 3,000 unemployed workers in the construction of a road, so that we can get a better transport in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e458	As I said in my speech, one important thing is happening today in Stortinget – a very important thing – and that is that the broad majority is behind the Labour Party and Government proposals for new economic policy guidelines. But the Progress Party has not found it right to be involved in defining such an action rule on how to use the oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. It also illustrates the background to the question put by the representative Svendsen. The Progress Party has been operating for all years since I came into this house, with its very own understanding of how economic policy can be governed here in the country. They've done that in all things, we've seen it over and over again here in Stortinget. The Progress Party now had the opportunity to engage in dialogue with the other parties on how to phase in these revenues – which also take care of well-being in the long term – into the Norwegian economy in a predictable and secure way. The Progress Party has chosen to stand outside. It has been quite a short time since the Stortinge treated the national transport plan. In that plan, the Government had actually proposed a significant increase in the annual appropriations, and, as the representative Svendsen is sure to know, during the treatment here in the house, further efforts were added to the road sector. So it's not right that this is just going to be smaller and smaller. In fact, a transport plan has been put in place for the next few years above the level used for transport in recent years. When the representative also chooses to use local examples, I can draw his attention to the fact that the government of Stoltenberg has proposed to provide the maximum level work related to the racial problem at the Leirvik tunnel. The road office is here in arrears. It is being put ahead of it to provide an opportunity to clean up that problem as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e467	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e470	Kristin Halvorsen said in his speech that the almost most exciting thing about this debate was the obvious proposal from the Right to the Christian People's Party which emerged from the fact that the Right did not take a line on the Christian People's Party, as they had previously done. In this context, I have also noticed that they somehow got the ‘curve’ from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who took a line on the Right. So there is no mutual peace agreement between these two parties. It's from one side. Something similar obviously applies when Kristin Halvorsen, although she has not come as far as not to take a line, in many ways frees the Workers' Party, but not as far as the Right to the Christian People's Party. But there too, the result is essentially the same. And if that's the case, and I'm actually starting to wonder, that this is one of the most exciting things that actually happens, then I think you might want to start looking at the purpose of creating such long-term programs, which it's very expensive to create. There will be a lot of investigation work in the government offices and a lot of work here in Stortinget, with thick documents and a long debate in the main hall without actually getting anything more out of it than you can by following a debate between parliamentary leaders in Holmgang or a debate in another TV program. Then I think the Prime Minister should now consider saying goodbye to the last planned economic attempt to steer developments in detail four years in the future, by simply – which I also understand the prime minister’s sense – to consider stopping the long-term programmes. In earlier times, it was actually the last debate before the elections, usually when the government budget was to be set up, which was the long-term programming process in Stortinget. In this way it was exciting in 1989, it was exciting in 1985 and it was exciting especially in 1981, but now it's a whole new situation. Then we might be able to save everyone for what we are doing, and as I am also doing: I am talking about the excellent policy of the Progress Party, while the others are talking about their – in their opinion – excellent policy. What's a little strange about us here in Norway, as Hill-Marta Solberg said, is that we have different perceptions of reality. We would have thought that when, for example, in the revised national budget comes from a government that the revenue to the state has become 40-50 billion kroner, there would be general joy in the population, because then we might be able to get something better. When you get so much new income, we might expect that some of the taxes and taxes that have been imposed on the population would be reduced, so that you can distribute an advantage to most people. But when the government and its current government increase their budget revenue by NOK 40-50 billion, it's a big guess. It doesn't change anything for the government, it's no joy that we can't now take as much money from most people as it should be. So that's absolutely right, as Hill-Marta Solberg said, we have a completely different sense of reality, and we think we need to be more able to make use of the economic freedom that we have. In the case of phase-in of the so-called oil money – as if there were some own money – in the Norwegian economy, it has been shown in earlier times that it has been very different. There have been situations in which tens of billions of dollars have been spent; some of the mainland Norway have lost tens of billions of dollars. So now the deficit in mainland Norway is going down by approx. 5-6 billion kroner as a result of the revision, but it doesn't matter at all. Making pre-regulations seems like we're wrong. It must be better to look at the situation in each year, i.e. the reality of each year, and not be guided by a pre-arranged map, as the other parties add up to, because suddenly, the terrain is different from the map that was drawn a while ago. The Progress Party has the basic view that we exist for the population, and when the country goes very well, it should be an advantage if we cut taxes and taxes a little, so that we got the price rise down and thus the opportunity for interest cuts. I have not met so many outside this hall who understand what the government claims, namely that if the fees go down, the prices go up. It is strange that the government itself says that when it reduces the VAT on food from 1 July, you can expect lower prices. Why, then, is it not that when you reduce the price of petrol, electricity, etc., prices also go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e483	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e487	I do not know whether parts of Hagen's reasoning were such as to understand that the Progress Party strongly disagrees with the Progress Party was very eager to stress last year, namely that a revised national budget revises the budget adopted, creating neither new policy fields nor new consumption. So we have the budgetary procedure for that. But with all due regard to the fact that we are likely to have an interesting discussion in the future on the position and form of debate of the long-term programme in this House, it is therefore also the position we are discussing today on economic policy guidelines. So here, a large majority agree with the Government on a long-term strategy for the use of oil revenues, which is set up to use the annual expected real return from the State Petroleum Fund. The Progress Party does not agree. The question then arises as to what kind of economic mechanisms the Progress Party has discovered that they have completely different framework conditions than all other serious participants in the Norwegian economic debate. We can truly disagree on many things – but within the economic reality we are in. If I look a little further, I find that you're taking a distance from a kind of economic thought that's called corporate Keynesianism. Now what's that theory? Is it e.g. the theory that when workers, employers and governments work together to reduce unemployment, increase productivity and improve real wages for members, is it a outdated economic theory? I would like to receive – and I am serious about this – a manual from Carl I. Hagen on what this really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e496	It is relatively even in these debates that the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party is the one who is being given a reply to me. If I were to be so lucky to be elected again on Stortinget, I must say, like Kjell Magne Bondevik, that something I'm going to miss in the next period, is that Tom Thoresen won't be here to be able to continue with these lines. So for the phase-in of oil revenue. As if we were to have completely different framework conditions! We simply have different political views. I remember many debates, especially from the time when we had 150 000–180 000 unemployed. In fact, the Workers' Party said that the time had come to increase public expenditure, not necessarily to increase revenue, but to stimulate the economy. We've sometimes had a little bit of sense of that. It is the real economic situation that is crucial. Now there are many people in this room who say we have a shortage of labour. I do not buy it, because I read in an advertisement from LO Oslo and Akershus from May where they pointed out that there were 70,000 unemployed. There were 90,000 part-time employees, especially in the health and elderly care sector, and many of them wanted full-time jobs, but there was a lack of money. There is a large labour reserve in the form of people employed in part-time jobs. We would like to spend money on health care and the care of the elderly to get them to full-time jobs. There is no shortage of labour. There's a lack of money. The international economy is at present falling slightly, and the central bank governors are lowering interest rates in order to advance the economy. Especially in the IT sector, there are quite significant redundancies and lay-offs. We're willing to do things within what makes sense, for example. as we have outlined in this debate: Let us give a good deal more money, for example. a few billion kroner to the road sector to employ those who are unemployed there, so that there will be a real benefit to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e505	The long-term programme will try to draw up the slightly longer policy lines, as one has also tried in the setting this year. In such settings, the size has found a basis for government declarations and cooperation. This setting also contains such signals from the center part of the page. The party of progress has, through its comments, not given any such signal, and it might be interesting to know why. The long lines of policy also provide the principle of economic growth, development and how this growth is to be used. Financial policy should be directed towards economic growth, says the Progress Party. There is not a Christian People's Party disagreed in. At the same time, however, the Progress Party complains that there is too much emphasis on the budgetary balance, including that in the post of Mr Hagen now. There's at least one-sided focus on the demand side of the economy, I think. This has led the Progress Party to come up with promises of more to most but extensive tax havens. Most of the money that the Progress Party wants to spend on the economy, they think they can be absorbed by the growth of the economy. This seems to the Progress Party to be quite separate from each other. Not even the Socialist Left Party has such good advice for all good purposes. I want to say it so that one doesn't need to believe in Keynesian theory to be disturbed by the influence of such a policy. So I'm going to end up with a simple question: will the Progress Party accept higher price rises, primarily high price rises?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e514	I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry, but again Lars Gunnar Lie insinuates that if we reduce the fuel tax so that the petrol price drops between $7 and $6 and $50, that means the price increase! If we reduce the electricity charge so that it gets smaller, if we reduce the purchase fee on the car, if we reduce a number of charges, it would be a price increase! I don't understand. Lars Gunnar Lie himself says that when you reduce VAT on groceries, prices go down. Because that's what we spend a lot of money on. We don't take them out, we leave out so much from the Norwegian people in the form of taxes! In our budget for this year we proposed approx. NOK 40 billion in tax relief, and then we reduced net expenditure by NOK 20 billion. To put it simply, we proposed reducing the surplus in the state budget by $20 billion – from the 170 billion to 20. But yet, a gigantic surplus. And why should there be a price rise — that is, that also asks workers’ parties about — by reducing the fees? I don't understand. Nor do I understand that if you give tax relief to people most so that they are not so dependent on going to their business, to their jobs, and demanding wage increases to stand still in purchasing power or to achieve some improvement in relation to the price increase, it would in itself lead to price increases! It is precisely when you go to your job, to your company, and demand a higher salary that companies, as a result of the higher pay and the higher employer's fee, etc. must increase its prices in order to cover the increased costs of wages and salaries! So when we give tax breaks instead of that, we get rid of that price increase. So I stand by – and I tried to describe what was the emperor's new clothes a long time ago – that here we are the little boy, and that's the great majority in this hall that is the emperor who doesn't realize that when you put taxes and taxes down, you put down the prices, and thus the interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e525	Carl I. Hagen often says he doesn't «understand». I think this is because, as far as the last theme he was on, he has not fully realised that a reduction in fees – which I am a strong supporter of, that is well and good – can have an impact on the price rise, the rate of price rise, in the short term, but it has no effect on interest rates. For what underlies Norway’s Bank’s assessment of the need to raise or lower interest rates, what is called the underlying inflationary pressure. That calculation does not include any charges at all. So I don't think you're going to exaggerate the effects. I just want to focus a little on what the Progress Party writes about monetary policy. There is now a broad consensus established. The party in progress has spent a long time converting into an inflation target. This has now been done in practice. But at the same time, the Progress Party writes what I actually have to say is relative – yes, I could be tempted to use the term ‘wonderful’, but at least I want to say – original comments on monetary policy. They have now learned that it is the amount of money that will be the Norwegian Bank's instrument to regulate. To that I just have to say that the Bank of Norway is today not the ones who decide the amount of money. In fact, I do not know any economist who believes that the volume of money in a small economy in a small country – in an open, global economy – is an instrument that benefits at all. The sole instrument of the Bank of Norway is now interest, exclusively interest. It is in itself original to have opinions other than the majority — it may sometimes seem stimulating — but it seems to me as a small step backwards to believe that monetary regulation is to be done in order to avoid inflation. And I could well ask the question in the following way, as Hagen often invokes prominent economists when he talks about the conversion of economic policy: What prominent economist – or what economist at all – is the reason behind this reasoning on the volume of money regulation in the Bank of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e534	First, I have to say that it was very interesting to be confirmed by Per-Christian Foss that he also agrees that if you reduce fees, the prices go down, as he says, in the short term. It depends on how long the short term is, for most people are actually concerned about the prices they pay at the store! And if that's how the economy is good, even in the longer term, it's quite possible to do the same operation once again. I am aware that not everyone can do this, but the good economy we have in Norway makes it possible to influence the rise in prices that people are most concerned about in the short term. And they don't study the so-called underlying inflationary pressure. I don't think Norway's Bank would do that in the long term either, because if the prices that people most meet are relatively stable, and that's a low rate of inflation, that's what I think will apply to the interest rate setting. If I do not remember completely incorrectly, the latest reports from the Norwegian Bank that interest rates have not been reduced have also shown that part of the prices relating to tax increases. And that's what's important in the real economy, the prices you find there. It is clear that if you do the same with taxes, if you actually lower the tax burden, as I mentioned in the case of enterprises, you will see that the tax rates have a direct influence on gross wage claims – lower rates or higher deductions. Because in payroll bills – and I don't think that Foss has got it all with him – it's the real purchasing power that is the basis for the requirements. Every salary bill is based on the purchasing power, and it depends on what you have done with the tax burden in the same year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e545	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e548	The centre party places the search light on the individual’s responsibility for himself and for others. We will work for a set of governments with more power for the many, with the spread of power, capital and property. We believe it is through popular commitment and governance that we can best solve environmental problems, get more in work, ensure cross-group, regions and countries, secure national and local ownership of natural resources and Norwegian ownership of businesses. We want, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left Constitutional Party, local self-government. We are deeply in disagreement with the Right, which, on the one hand, talks very much about the freedom of the individual, but which is clear when the Labour Party asks for support, whether it owes the use of coercion to merge municipalities, for the removal of loss compensation, which undermines the economic basis of the small municipalities, or for the assessment of membership of the EU next period. The centre party wants a public sector that in practice shows Cohesion Norway over Market Norway. If we are to ensure children and young people a more equivalent platform, we need to take into account the situation in many municipalities today. Budget doesn't match. The government itself has provided a realistic description of the debt situation and why it is. The parental reform and the six-year reform are underfunded. In a long-term programme, a plan could be expected to correct the imbalances we see today between tasks and resources in the municipal sector. The Central Party has taken initiatives against the other parties in the UK to secure measures against children and young people, where there seems to be a multiple in words, but not in action. It applies to full child care coverage, lower parental pay, away with the properties of the base ball, increased access to music and culture balls, and support for children and young people’s contact phone. In 1997, the Stortinget, on the initiative of the Centre Party, was able to gather on a broad deal in the older sector. It then spelled out an action plan for better care for the elderly. Now there's a lift for our kids over the next four years. The center party thinks it is striking that the government is no longer offensive in its follow-up to the anti-sampling message. The notification was submitted in 1999. It documented that there is a hurry to follow up on some of the most difficult in our society. In fact, during the spring of 2000, the labour force tried to explain that it is poor in this country. Now the recognition is common to many games. Then let's work together to make all the suggestions come over from description to action. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are also there. We are asking for an action plan, and we want the proposals on young people to come first. The government is right enough in its long-term programme to describe various measures. It's actually the same description again, which was first mentioned in the Equalization message, which was then followed up from the Storting last year, and now the Government says it's going to implement these actions within the next four years. We were in the plural that last June in Stortinget asked for a plan for the different measures. We think that in such a plan, there is clearly at home an overview of how much time the different measures should be phased in. Otherwise, we could risk making new years before something more is done for those who are most in need of it. I would challenge the Minister of Finance to come up with a plan in 2002 for an obligatory follow-up in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e565	Norway is the society of opportunity! In the long-term programme, the Government draws up a policy to make the possibility of reality possible. Norway is better equipped than any other country to meet the challenges of the future. We have low unemployment, high wealth and a business that goes well. We have a very competent workforce. We have huge oil and gas revenues, which we largely set aside for the future. In addition, we have a society of cohesion, diversity, commitment and participation. But the evolution of society in the future will depend on the choices we make. The main objective of the Government is to further develop and renew the Norwegian welfare society by ensuring the basis for value creation and fair distribution in the coming years. The government will take new initiatives for children and young people. We will build more and cheaper kindergartens, improve school quality and further develop the school leisure system. In addition, we want to improve voluntary teams and organisations. We want to clean up the healthcare system and ensure good health in all parts of the country. We will continue the development of health and care services, improve the functioning of hospitals and reduce waiting lists. We want a working life with space for everyone. We want to offer work over social security, and at the same time make it easier to combine work and social security. We want to create new jobs where people live, take advantage of opportunities in individual regions and set up new state activities in the districts. The welfare society must constantly be further developed in order to ensure the basis for the creation, welfare and fair distribution. It makes great demands both for prioritisation and for change and renewal. The objective of public sector reforms is to bring more and better public services into line with the needs of users, to improve the organisation of services and to increase the number of hands that can be deployed in priority areas. Work is already well under way, including: through the initiatives we have taken to strengthen hospitals, higher education, the police and the defence. One of the main points of the long-term programme is that the future development of well-being depends primarily on how we use labour resources in society. The value of our human capital is more than 13 times the value of the entire petroleum fortune. At the same time, participation in the labour market is slightly more than raising wages. Work ensures income for individuals, but also provides social cohesion and the ability to use skills and resources. The government will therefore strengthen the work of employment and social policy. This requires close interaction with the social partners. The Government therefore emphasises the continuation of income policy cooperation, in which the social partners contribute to ensuring a strong competitive sector through moderate wage settlement. Norway has had an adventurous growth and prosperity after World War II. By facilitating innovation, transformation and increased productivity, the Government will facilitate increased value creation and thus also well-being. It is necessary to ensure a competitive environment for Norwegian business. An economic policy that ensures stability and reduces uncertainty is crucial in this context. At the same time, the Government will strengthen the growth power of the economy. The government will reduce the tax on labour, including: by reducing the level of payable tax. The government will strengthen research efforts and strengthen the development of infrastructure. The government will maintain the main features of the housing pattern and create equivalent living conditions in all parts of the country. It is also necessary to facilitate the economic development of all parts of the country by focusing on the advantages existing in the different areas and by developing high-growth regions. In the years ahead, Norway faces significant long-term challenges, with decreasing oil revenues and increasing expenditure on pensions, health and care as a result of population ageing. Oil revenues have given us more public welfare and lower unemployment than we would otherwise have. At the same time, through the petroleum fund, we have placed great emphasis on adding to most of the large revenues we now have, so that we can be better equipped to meet the future challenges. The Petroleum Fund now has a significant size. The fund is also expected to grow significantly over the years to come. This requires a clear policy of action for the use of the Fund. This is the background to the new guidelines for budgetary policy presented in conjunction with the long-term programme. Based on the new guidelines, the use of oil revenues by the country shall be based on the expected real return on oil revenues we have saved in the petroleum fund. It provides a smooth and sound use of oil revenues in the years to come, so that we avoid rapid changes in the economy. In this way, we ensure a strong competitive sector, while ensuring that the public welfare offer is not extended to such an extent that it needs to be rebuilt. At the same time, the new rule of action takes into account the longer-term need for expenditure, by further building up the petroleum fund as the State receives new oil revenues. It's like a good management of the forest -- we're just cutting the growth. In this way, the petroleum fund contributes to ensuring the well-being and pensions of the future, while at the same time providing room for proper use for the benefit of today's generations. Budgetary policy must continue to have a primary responsibility for stabilising developments in the Norwegian economy. The rule for the use of oil revenue from the State budget is based on a normal cyclical situation. In a situation of high activity, there should be a restraint in budgetary policy, while in times of decline there may be a need for greater use of oil revenues to ensure full employment. At the same time as the Government is proposing new guidelines for budgetary policy, in the government's view, there was a need for a clearer anchoring of monetary policy in order to support a stable economic development. The new monetary policy regulation provides for monetary policy to aim for stability in the value of the Norwegian krona, nationally and in relation to our trading partners. At the same time, it shall support budgetary policy by contributing to stabilising the development of production and employment. The operational implementation of monetary policy shall accordingly focus on low and stable inflation, defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time are close to 2,5 pst. The guidelines involve continuity in the exercise of monetary policy. The new monetary policy guidelines, together with the budgetary policy guidelines now being drawn up, will provide a good basis for continued stability in the exchange rate. I am pleased that there is broad political agreement on the new guidelines for budgetary and monetary policy. It is very important to ensure a stable economic policy framework. There are now two clear options in Norwegian policy – one with a basis in the Workers' Party, the other with a centre of gravity in the right. The setting of the long-term programme shows deep value differences between these centres of gravity. The Workers' Party will strengthen and renew public welfare systems in order to ensure equal access to better quality welfare services for all. The right-wing parties will weaken public welfare arrangements. The working party will ensure fair distribution between those who have much, and those who have little. The right-hand parts will increase the differences. The Labour Party will pursue an active district policy. The right-wing parties will weaken district policy. The Workers' Party will strengthen international aid efforts. The right hand parts will weaken it. This provides clear value choices for the voters when they choose new magnification for the harvest. And it gives clear value choices for the batches that lie between these centroids, and it's going to determine the center of gravity that gets through for its values. The right has recently gone into action to reduce the country's revenue by NOK 40 billion. It's as much as we use on hospital operations today. Such a tax haven would have to bring about a dramatic change in the Norwegian welfare community. The huge tax reliefs to the richest will finance the right parties, among other things. cutting sick pay, district and industrial policies and helping the poorest in the world. At the same time, it is not least proposed to propose significant cuts in the sickness pay scheme for ordinary workers. Those who serve on the right hand side are the ones who earn a lot, and who are always healthy. Those who lose are those who are sick in society. There are differences in the parties in Norwegian policy. There are fundamental value distinctions between the Workers' Party and the Right on welfare issues, on solidarity and on fair distribution. The voters are therefore facing something more than a government choice – it is a value choice. It is also for the parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e638	The government has opened up the possibility to use something more of the oil fund's output. It brought up the Christian People's Party and the centre party for everything during the budget negotiations in the fall, but then we got the plenary no. We referred to an ECON report on the capacity reserve in the plant industry. Targeted use within this industry could do good for unfinished tasks in our infrastructure, and also put unused resources in activity. The government said no. But now you have one open to use something more. And then comes the revision. There is once again a frame to be absolute. And my question is, why do we damage the economic situation by using something more now, while for example, does not damage the economic situation by spending $4 billion more on next year? It would harm the economic situation to take, for example: The ECON report is serious and useful – I am not talking about billions of dollars, but I am talking about something more in the civil engineering sector, so that our capacity in this sector is not sent out of the country on mission. So why does it damage the economic situation if we spend the money before Christmas, but not if we spend $4 billion for next year? I actually have a little bit of a problem understanding this, and I think there are a lot of people with me who don't realize that there should be such absolute demands on the framework for the current year, while next year we can open the bag for about $4 billion. Can the Minister of Finance explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e647	There's been a long discussion about how we're going to use oil revenues. And it's never been that there's been any questions about whether or not we're going to use them. This question has been the time of use. I think it is important that we assume that when we deal with the long-term programme for the next four years, we draw up lines of economic policy during that period, and it is also a natural time to assess what kind of guidelines should be used in relation to the petroleum fund. For its part, the government has found that the petroleum fund has now reached a level so large that it is important to have a clear rule of action on how to dispose of the fund. And the government has come to the conclusion that it makes sense to take into account the uniform and sound use of oil revenues. It is a rule that is matched by the real return of the petroleum fund. At the same time, however, it is important, as the Committee has also stressed, to stress the importance of stability in the economy. So there are two important keys in the new guidelines for budgetary policy: the stability of oil revenue and the need for phase-in. So the representative in the city of Reply Haugland raised questions about it when there was no room for using anything more already in 2001. First of all, it is important to stress that the new rule of action is formally applicable from the next financial year. But it is also true that if this rule of action had been applied for 2001, there would have been no room for spending more oil money in the Norwegian economy. Rather, on the contrary, we use more in 2001 than in 2001 as a result of the rule of action. Once I have warned against spending more money e.g. in the examination of the revised budget, there is, of course, a strong pressure in the Norwegian economy. And if we were to get a situation where some parties thought that there was room either to grant more or to reduce taxes and charges without equivalent coverage elsewhere in the budget, that would mean an additional stimulus to the economy. There's no room in the economic situation that we're in now, and it would result in an increase in the risk of interest rate increase in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e661	It is a little too tempting to remind those who are now engaged in stimulating the construction industry that there must be a new knowledge, because as late as November–December last year, the same parties went in to slow down the development of the industry by imposing on it a cyclical tax, which was correctly removed, but it was now serious, I suppose. In addition, the construction industry has incurred increased tax costs through lower depreciation rules. So this should hang out a little bit, then, to say it like this. I have long tried to clarify what is the tax policy of the Labour Party government. It is possible that a revised treatment does not keep up to answer such complicated questions, but I applied back to the revised national budget last year. Then the relatively newly appointed Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen wrote the following: «The ability to increase tax revenue is limited in the coming years. The level of taxation in Norway is already high compared with other countries.’ After that, taxes and charges increased by NOK 12 billion. Then my question has to be, is it that this year's tax level is super high? Or what's the graduation after high? If it is higher than high, I will challenge the Minister of Finance to find the word for it. Now I have seen that the Minister of Finance doesn't write this into the documents anymore, but publishes through the VG that you won't get higher taxes next year. But as in any popularized insurance brochure, there's something in small writing, and my questions are about the small writing. Is this guarantee a guarantee that no taxes will rise next year? Is this guarantee valid in addition to 2002 if the Workers' Party is to be given responsibility for government over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e678	As the Prime Minister pointed out in his reply, the level of taxes and charges in Norway, although high in an international comparison, is lower than in the countries with which we usually compare, lower than in Sweden, lower than in Finland than in Denmark. I have expressed myself that the Government will not commit to increasing the overall level of taxation from 2001 to 2002. Of course, I stand by that. But I have to say in the tax debate that in these days I react relatively strongly, among other things. on a brochure that spreads to the right over the whole country, expressing that this year the Government has increased taxes and taxes by nearly NOK 3000 per year. person. It's a solid political bluff. First, if we look at the tax in isolation, the changes are per. person approximately 0 for income up to 450 000 kroner. On the other hand, there is an increase of close to 14000 kroner for revenues above 600000 kroner on average. But it's not that about a person like that. Kjell Inge Smoke would get 100 million. kr in tax increase due to the dividend tax, it can be explained as NOK 20 per cent. person. It'll be pointless. Secondly, VAT reform means that a family with two children will receive a relief of NOK 1 100. But it is also true that if we take all the taxes and taxes that are applied in 2001, and look at their annual impact on a household, the effect is about 0. I also hope that the Right is holding back to disseminate as incorrect information as they are now. It must be reasonable to ask for some reasonableness in the debate, even if it is approaching elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e689	The summary in the configuration reads: ‘It would be unfortunate if large fluctuations in the fund’s return from year to year were to reproduce to the mainland economy through changes in the use of oil revenue from the State budget. In order to counteract such fluctuations, the expected real return on the Petroleum Fund, rather than the actual, should form the starting point for the phase-in of the oil revenues. In calculating the expected real return, a real interest rate of 4 pst has been taken into account. Furthermore, the calculations shall be based on the amount of the Petroleum Fund at the beginning of the financial year.’;» If we say, for the argument, that there was NOK 350 billion in the petroleum fund at the beginning of this year, that equals 4 pst. – if this had been claimed – 14 billion kroner in the phase-in of oil revenues this year. Is it so to understand that this is the way to think about it for the future, that that's what you get from this calculation, which is going to determine and be a plank in the budget? How much oil revenue we're going to use, you start with, instead of the other way around, as you've done now. How can this really be even phase-in? At the moment, it is expected that at the beginning of next year there will be NOK 600 billion in the fund, and then the amount will increase from NOK 14 billion to NOK 24 billion. What does the Government intend to do during the revision of the budget when there will be significant changes in all other taxes and taxes? Should the budget be changed abruptly? This year, 12 billion kroner of oil revenues were charged, and now it is estimated at 5-6 billion kroner in revised form. Then you should actually adjust this, so that you can maintain this floor plan of NOK 12 billion, which you added up to. How can this be a steady phase-in? It's going to be totally dependent on everything else. My last heartache to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen: What wrong has the Norwegian people done so that the Labour Party government will not let them benefit from the good economy in terms of far lower taxes and taxes than the government imposes, and so that we could actually get the cost growth in business down and the price rise down, and thus perhaps get a little lower interest rate? What wrong has the Norwegian people done that deserves such treatment as the Workers' Party gives them?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e701	It is true, as the representative refers to, that petroleum revenues are phased into the economy gradually evenly, in line with the expected real yield of the petroleum fund. Then there is an important emphasis, that when calculating the size of the real return, how much is taken into account in the economy, it is usually corrected for the variation in tax income due to the activity of the economy, the layout of the accounts, specific income and expenditure of a similar nature, for example. particularly high transfers from the Bank of Norway. That's why you can't automatically calculate 4 pst. of the petroleum fund at the beginning of the year, it is also necessary to look at the other accounts, as explained by the Government. Here is also the answer to the question of why not short-term changes in tax revenue to the country as a result of a change in activity in the economy, come in immediately and contribute to more use without affecting the activity. To the extent that there is an increased activity that explains the increase in tax revenue, taxes and taxes act as what is called an automatic stabiliser in the economy, and do not have the effect that Hagen here tried to explain. Otherwise, I think it is important to stress that in the case of Norway’s Bank’s interest rate setting, it is such that Norway’s Bank should ignore short-term circumstances, including: short-term impact of changes in charges. It is also set out in the monetary policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e710	The government has many nice goals for the next four years. Unfortunately, the long-term programme is not quite so offensive when it comes to action. To Per-Kristian Foss: By the new year, there were 2 000 unemployed before the plant sector. That's what made the center part 400 million. extra for the road sector. Some of us would use even more, and we've got it right when we see the March speech. And then to the Minister of Finance: Now the March speech shows that there are 3,000 unemployed before the civil engineering sector. Of them, 357 are only in a state like Rogaland. LO Industry has requested in a private letter to the Government that 2 billion DKK be used to provide skills and equipment to ensure road maintenance and repair. In fact, the economy in the districts is in a situation – and that is true of both my and other counties – but it has to be downgraded, where the axle load cannot be so high, with the consequences that it gets too many businesses, and where parents have to worry that there is a race on the school grounds. Then there is too little agreement between what the Government says about an offensive district policy, and what happens, if one does not take this inward. Now, the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to support the development of the districts at the same time as people get work. There are some groups waiting for the Minister of Finance to follow up on the anti-sampling message. Will he support a plan to phase out the various measures in the 2002 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e719	I notice that the representative says that the government has a lot of what I see as positive goals in the long-term programme. I have great faith that in many of these contexts there is a close convergence of vision and a close convergence of goals between the parties in the centre and the Workers' Party, and I therefore hope that it will be possible to have a majority in order to implement that kind of action. Then the representative expresses that she is not quite so impressed and believes that it is not quite so offensive when it comes to action. No, I can't agree to that. So this government has been sitting for well and well over a year. We are in the process of implementing a hospital reform that completely changes the governance of the health care system, which is crucial in order to manage developments there. We have presented a reform of higher education, we have presented a reform of the police, we have presented a reform of the courts, we have presented a reform of the equation management. In short, over the course of this year, the government has presented a large number of reforms that show action and are making the necessary steps to bring about the renewal and strengthening of the public sector. The government has also followed up on the kindergarten sector. We have made it clear that we want more and cheaper kindergartens. By 2003, all those who so wish shall be provided with nursery facilities. And the government has already in the revised budget set aside money so that from 1 July you can reduce the parental payment as a first paragraph of the bet against kindergartens that are in the long-term programming period. In addition to presenting the long-term programme, we have presented the VAT reform and presented a housing tax reform in the Ministry of Finance. In short, I am reasonably satisfied with what the Government has presented. As regards the issue of the Equalisation Communication, the Government has presented an action plan in the long-term programme. Of course, we will follow it up in the budgets that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e732	When I hear the Minister of Finance explain the economic context, I have to say that I remember the old word that says that neither politics nor economics are exact sciences. And I think this was very well illustrated in the articles we have now heard. If that's the reasoning as Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen is now moving, is right, we should be able to spend NOK 6.6 billion more in this year's economy, because this is therefore the lower consumption of oil money from the exact line that the Stortinge decided in the government budget in the autumn. At that time it was immeasurably important that we did not use one more penny, because it would lead to unrest and imbalances in the Norwegian economy. So the mainland economy is going to cost. We get almost $10 billion in increased tax revenue. It means less consumption of oil money, and based on the reasoning given here, of course, it would mean that we could have spent NOK 6.6 billion more in the economy without this leading to imbalances. Everyone understands that we can't do that. It even understands SV – this is not possible. And that means that the science that is now trying to regulate the economy, at best, is a science with a great deal of discretion. Because what we get then, in addition, is a central bank that is independent of the political decisions. And this is a double edged sword. That means, if the Storting believes it's right that the Storting should spend more money for, for example. To solve the problems of unemployment, if we have it, or other important welfare tasks, that we have now institutionalised a scheme where there is an over-looker, an over-judge over the decision of the elected people. This is in itself a democratic problem, namely the following: The size makes decisions that you think are right on the basis of certain programmes and according to what is right for the nation, but then you have said that there is an instance that is not chosen by anyone, and that has the opportunity to sit down in the Bank of Norway and say that now we think the Stortinget is dealing with things they should not, now we are setting up the interest rate to tighten up and cool down the economy, because the Stortinget is not able to do that job. This is de facto the system being established, and this is a democratic problem from my point of view. It is important that monetary policy and fiscal policy move in the same direction, and that there is no body that is not elected by the people that can stand over this. I would like to hear the finance minister's view of these considerations. Does he not see that this can be a democratic problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e747	No, I do not – in the sense that I agree with the representative that it is important for monetary policy and budgetary policy to move in the same direction. As underlined in the solidarity option, budgetary policy, monetary policy and income policy are all part of a comprehensive economic policy. But it's not a democratic problem, in the sense that if the Storting wants to spend more money, then of course the Storting can do it. But if the Storting wants to spend more money, and at the same time maintains the operational guideline that the price increase should be kept within a frame of about 2.5 pst, then it's not always that the two things are completely connected. That is why, of course, budgetary policy will be crucial to the nature of the use of instruments needed to reach the monetary policy guidelines that have been drawn up. The government has considered that it makes sense to set up the monetary policy guideline as presented. We believe that there is a good agreement between monetary policy and budgetary policy, and I am pleased that there has been a broad majority in the United Kingdom that has joined it. So the representative says that because of the fact that less oil money has been used this year, you should have had room to spend more. I have to remind you that the guidelines that now apply to budgetary policy are linked to the activity of the economy, and the activity of the economy is obviously the result of increased activity in the private sector, which is reflected in, among other things. increased tax payments. Therefore, there is no room for spending more if you are to stay within the budget line that was submitted last autumn. And I have to be allowed to repeat what I also said in the presentation of the revised national budget: those who had to believe that you can now increase the expenditure or reduce the revenue without corresponding interference with other parts of the budget, assume a great deal of responsibility in relation to the further interest rate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e756	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e760	Sometimes I think you have to ask yourself some very basic questions. And the fundamental question to ask is, if you're a big-time representative and you want to re-elect, maybe, why in the world are we here? Is it for the purpose of fighting Chapter, Item for Item, Tax Fee and Tax? Or is it because we have something else on our heart? I believe that every generation has an obligation to leave to the next generation something that is better than what you got yourself. That is the responsibility you have, not just as an individual or as a family member, that is the responsibility you have in politics. I thought about it when I was in the cabin on Sunday, because I have parents who behaved just like that. They still have projects going on so that the cabin that they inherited from their parents should be in better condition for the generation that I belong to, and that is to take over the cabin after them. That's why there are still projects going on – not because each small project is all the world, but because they're going to leave something that's in good condition, and better, to the generation that comes after them. So they're replacing the old patio, which is environmentally harmful and not particularly festive, with a new biodo. What, then, is our generation's most important political project? It's not necessarily building more square meters, but it's giving the next generation a better starting point than what we've had ourselves. Which areas are most important? We know that Norway is becoming a more and more multicultural society. So the question is, are we going to make that job easier for the next generation, or are we going to make it harder? We have an obligation to make sure that the next generation can live in a society where all people are judged as individuals, regardless of skin color and ethnic background. Today we live in a discriminatory society. Ask all those who get their job applications back. Ask all those who try the housing market and are rejected because they have a different ethnic origin. We have a commitment in the environmental field to leave to the next generation a better starting point than what we have ourselves. We're not going to do that right now. Now we leave an environmental policy to the next generation that gives them a worse and more difficult starting point than we had ourselves – with CO2 emissions that go right into the weather, where we can asphalt the entire eastern region so that we can drive cars absolutely all the time, but with a public transport that is sadly behind. We have a standard and maintenance run of 20-30 years in Oslo Sporveier on the track sections. We have a commitment to the next generation to do our part of the job so that CO2 emissions can go down and not rise in the clouds, which makes their job difficult. We have a responsibility towards the next generation to ensure that differences in Norway do not increase more than they have increased. We know that we have a better society than very many others because the differences are relatively small. We know that if a civil majority gets cut off in the sick pay system, the differences increase. We know that in one of the richest countries in the world, we can set such high targets that we can eliminate poverty, so that all kids can afford to participate in it as it is customary to participate in it. We know that we have a better chance than any generation before us to upgrade the school and education system so that it stands and shines, and so that young people and young people feel respected, feel invested in, provide them with a starting point for getting better at what they're good at from before. We know that we have an opportunity to show solidarity with people other than ourselves in a completely different way from what we are doing today. The SV national meeting has stated very clearly: we want to participate in a majority constellation that can address the main challenges for the future. This debate has shown that there is only one party that invites the voters to participate in an obliging majority formation on the matters we see to be most important. We know that many voters who lie between SV and the Workers' Party agree with SV, not with the Workers' Party, who want to rule alone. We know that many voters who lie between us and the Center Party agree with SV, and not with a center party that sits on the mercy of Right and Hagen. This debate shows one thing: There is a civil war in the Great Britain – the voters decide!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e787	SV's comments in the setting contain many pious requests for the next four years. There's no doubt about it. It goes pretty much on more to most people. At the same time, SV will reduce the search activities on the base, especially in the north, thereby reducing the amount of oil paid to the joint fund. The Labour Party and SV agree in many areas, but in two key areas of the setting the policy is broken. It concerns economic and monetary policy. SV will reserve the right to use more of the oil fund from year to year than provided by the Government. SV is sceptical about the proposed change in monetary policy and says that we can now risk that if the financial policy of the Storting becomes too expansive, this can be lifted by tightening up monetary policy. As we all know, the higher interest rate means for most people, especially those with high mortgages and low incomes. Yes, so it was before we asked about monetary policy, and so it is now, but still SV will reserve the right to use even more oil money. And then my question is to the representative Halvorsen: what is the SV really going to do differently, and in what situation does SV think it is possible to spend more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e794	It is my firm belief that SV is the largest party in the world. I believe that the bulk of the population, all except SV, are particularly irresponsible when they believe that in 2001, for example, there is a need to: in the case of transport policy, priority is given to reducing the petrol and diesel tax by DKK 2,5 billion and to feeding public transport. I believe that is directly irresponsible. There's an attitude that's not necessarily very popular in the first round, but we're willing to stand for it. Then I become quite small by the Workers' Party, which believes that the policy they are pursuing at all times is the only one responsible. When the Workers' Party now adds up to what you can call an oil money regime, the result will be what SV suggested in the additional consumption of oil money. These are proposals for using oil money that had been submitted up to two minutes before the long-term programme was irresponsible S.A. policy. We believe it may be situations where it is responsible to spend more oil money, but perhaps also situations where it is responsible to spend less oil money than the Workers' Party adds. In a situation of unemployment, it is the responsibility to spend more oil money, because the most important resource of a society is human capital, whether it be in the form of arms and bones or heads. The largest waste project a society can carry out is a policy of high unemployment. And we have a lot of problems that can be done if we get into a situation of high unemployment, and we have money and freedom of action to do it. We're not going to participate in the anti-tax war that this campaign might be. Not because we love each and every tax in itself. I do not know anyone who loves taxes and taxes. We even think that some of these taxes and charges are wasted, but we are willing to say: Look, we think that something else is most important, and we will do that first, namely strengthen the Community solutions, because that is what the rest of social-democratic Norway stands and falls on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e803	The President has some doubts as to whether 'dustede' is a parliamentary vocabulary, but leaves doubt over the assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e806	It was about some fees, and I expect it might have some sympathy from the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e811	The President has no sympathy in such a context, at least not expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e814	I'm actually in agreement with a lot of what Kristin Halvorsen said in his post, among other things. it's about managing the Earth in such a way that the next generation can take over something that's better than what we took over. There we come on the hind legs, one might say, in Norway. Providing a better starting point for the next generation is the Christian People's Party. For many years SV has shown a great commitment to kindergartens, an engagement that also the Christian People's Party fully shares. SV has also shown an equal commitment to cash support, which is not supported by the Christian People's Party. The removal of cash support shall pay to the nursery sector, according to Document No. 8-proposal from SV. Next generation needs a better starting point. We know that parents ask for more time with their children. We also know that the first three years of their children's lives may be the most important years to give them a safe growth. So we have proposed and introduced cash support. But I also want to challenge Kristin Halvorsen on the pure economics of this. To remove a scheme costing DKK 3 billion, you should be able to use it only on kindergartens to get full coverage. But the point is, if we remove a system, we create new needs. And if we remove a scheme, we have to build far more kindergartens than what's in kindergarten plans. Thus, there will be not as much money to get as Kristin Halvorsen says in both Document No. The eight-proposal and otherwise. So good economist I actually believe the representative is that she sees it. I would also like to point out another area, that is to say, between the poor and the rich in the country. We see that cash support has had a smoothing effect. How will Kristin Halvorsen pay for the further development of kindergartens for which she has to go in by removing cash support? And how can she also go against a support to the families who actually show that those who have the least get the most, and those who have the most get the least? This is a point in the evaluation report I never hear people from the Labour Party or SV mention anything about. I would like to invite the representative to take along the positive – and perhaps to pay for the cash support for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e825	When SV is concerned about kindergartens, it is primarily because we believe that it is a good starting point for all children in Norway to be able to spend a few hours in kindergarten and get that community and follow-up that you can get there. It is also good for parents to have professionals to discuss their own children with. Much of what you think is special is perfectly normal – I have experience with calming conversations with good pediatric staff. That is why we want the kindergartens not to be praised as a derisory luxury, as they do in Norway. We think it's the other way around when the Swedes bring in $1140 at the maximum price, and we have $4,000 for very many. This would lead to much greater flexibility and opportunities for young children's parents if you could not work overtime and perhaps reduce your job position a little because the costs were reduced. These are difficult amounts for most families. Then I fully agree with Valgerd Svarstad Haugland: Of course, it would mean building many more kindergartens. That's absolutely right. And if you took away the whole amount of cash support, you could just reduce it to the Swedish level for the number of kindergartens we have per day. today. So it's a reform for the future that's going to cost more money. But we want to be very clear on the pediatric value of the children, and what freedom of choice it gives parents the ability to choose a good nursery place. That's why we're not just saying that. We're saying that we want it as an individual right as well, so you can actually pick that kindergarten place. So to the question of distribution policy. After the completion of the maternity leave scheme, we know that it's about 20 pst. who have no acquired rights to maternity leave. We've discussed increasing the amount of lump sum at birth, and paying it as monthly amounts, so that a make a kind of minimum maternity leave for those who haven't earned full rights. [[The President clubs.]] It would be a policy-sharing grip as well – and not showered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e834	The representative has now used up his or her speaking time rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e837	Thank you for making sure there's fair distribution. If SV can be said many, and about Kristin Halvorsen it can of course also be said many. That it is a steadfast party and a steadfast party leader is certain. And the main post she held here, I thought was very good. It was a typical conservative post on a generational perspective, on real estate cultivation and handover to the next generation, etc. The only thing I responded to was the praise of the option to outdo, which I did not fully understand. In some areas, however, SV is also recognizable and contradicts what the Right stands for. One of those areas is what could be called privatisation, outsourcing, etc., where both SV and Kristin Halvorsen have almost allergenic seizures just mentioned the word, and the hand brake is turned on. However, in today’s treatment setting, there are formulations that have either been introduced in the event of an error, or they indicate price changes. For it is well known under the chapter on the renewal of the public sector: «Public service users are entitled to a service that meets their needs, is of good quality and is provided at the agreed time. This member will therefore enter in order to test out a consumer guarantee scheme. Where local authorities cannot provide services at the agreed time, alternatives shall be provided to users... For example, such schemes may be tested in waste management, TT transport or home help.» My question is: what are these alternatives to public waste management, public TT transport or public home help? What is this going to mean? Is there simply a threat to public employees in the municipality that they should step up, which SV has turned on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e852	If Gabrielsen rejoices over my tribute to the real estate and private property rights, he should not cheer too early, for the cabin stands on a feast floor. And if we hadn't managed to strike back the Right Party and the Advance Party in its time, then ordinary people wouldn't have had cabins in the area where my family heritage is located. Then I am very pleased that the Right has discovered our offensive efforts in the public sector. For this is the opposite of the one-eyed privatisation and tendering that Right-wing operates around the municipality of Norway, and which causes people in very many cases to have been given poorer services. Let me take a few examples: Oslo Sporveier has introduced a guarantee. It means that if the T-Bahn doesn't come, you have the right to cover the taxi on the route you were going to travel. We should have a similar system, for example. in the case of the TT service. In Oslo, the situation was as follows: Oslo Taxi lost the contract they had with the municipality for the transport of disabled persons. It got the falcon. This meant that very many disabled people who were at work remained standing for one hour, two hours, three hours and waiting for the car to arrive. That was the outsourcing, that was the right-wing policy. It was even stories of disabled people standing on the stairs and freezing for hours on Christmas Eve, because it was not possible to provide the services that right-wing policy would make more effective. Then these people should have had the right to take a taxi instead of at the municipality's expense. We believe that great demands must be made and services must be made so that the usual consumer in the municipality knows that he can trust them. It's not going to be like this in the future that people are standing with their hats in their hands outside a municipal office and bows and scratches and are grateful if they get help, on the contrary. In particular, for us, who want to defend the joint task of financing a welfare state and a welfare municipality, it is very important that the standard of the services provided is top-notch. And the right-hand side won't be allowed to experiment with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e861	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e864	Norway is the society of opportunity. We've had an adventurous growth after World War II. This is mainly due to the fact that we have exploited labour, resources and technological development in an increasingly effective way. It's given results. We have a very high proportion of women in work, and we need that. We all need free hands. The working party shall continue to focus on innovation, change and increased productivity, thereby also giving room to increase well-being further in the coming years. The working party shall focus on high-growth regions. We want to facilitate profitable business development in all parts of the country. We will focus on designing framework conditions so that business environments that are well established and strong in Norway, such as fisheries and aquaculture, oil, gas and maritime industries, can develop further. That's what we're going to live on in the future. We will preserve the main features of the housing pattern, develop robust societies and create equivalent living conditions in all parts of the country. The working party will expand broadband networks in all parts of the country. So we can reduce the distance constraints and develop decentralised solutions. There are not many good reasons to locate new state businesses in Oslo – the largest press area we currently have. Therefore, state start-ups must take place outside Oslo. The central parties believe that the government's district policy is passive. The leader of the Central Party said that he wanted a strong change of district policy. But what kind of "medicine" it was supposed to be, he didn't say anything about it. For the Workers' Party, there would have been no problem joining the district policy of the Centre Parties in the setting – if it had been legal. But it's not. It will then be different with the District Policy of the Right and the Advance Party, where there will be no going in to make extra provision for the development of the districts. Here all measures are general for the whole country. This year, the right will cut regional and industrial subsidies and transfers to agriculture by nearly DKK 3 billion, and the Progress Party is right to say that to them it is ‘of secondary importance where growth comes’. Enoxsen said in his post that the Workers' Party would enter for the coercion of municipalities. That's wrong. We don't want to force any municipalities to merge. But we want to facilitate voluntary community mergers. It's something completely different. The main effort of the working party over the next four years is more and less expensive kindergartens, after the whole kindergarten expansion had been halted when the cash support was introduced during the Bondevik administration. The waiting lists are now longer than ever. The Christian People's Party leader said earlier today that cash support has made the freedom of choice possible. That's not true. When the kindergarten does not exist or costs more than NOK 4000, there are very many people who do not have a choice at all. That's what's the truth. The Workers' Party will provide young people with safe growth. We want to increase the quality of school. We want a better health service than what we have today, and we want a working life for everyone. That is why we take the job of cleaning up the healthcare system and ensuring better offers in all parts of the country. We will continue the development of healthcare and nursing homes, drive hospitals better and thus reduce waiting lists. We don't just want to talk, we're doing something about the problems. We need to be able to renew and streamline the public sector so that it is less used for administration and more for the care and treatment of old and sick. It is not just ‘to change the name’, as the representative Foss called it in his post. We want a working life for everyone and offer work instead of social security. Workers' acquired rights, such as sick pay, AFP and tax deductions from the union quota, shall not be deducted from them. It's when you play with the employees you get results. It has more than one employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e887	It's hard to predict, especially about the future, a certain man has said. The government's long-term program has a certain sense of prediction, but it's skilled predictions based on the best of analytical tools. Everyone in this room knows that the situation in Norwegian society in 2005 will not be exactly as described in St.meld. No 30. It is nevertheless very useful to try to look four years ahead in time. Chapter 9 of the long-term programme deals with ‘A forward-looking energy policy’. I support the ambition that energy supply in Norway should be the most environmentally friendly in the world. Here on the mountain we have a good starting point for just doing this, because the hydropower is dominant in our energy supply. We believe that greater emphasis should be placed on environmental considerations in the management of this important resource. The government has announced that in the future, the increase in production capacity will be primarily due to the upgrading of existing hydroelectric power plants and the prudent development of new ones. This is demanding politically, because Norwegian electricity consumption is increasing for every year running. I want to address two issues related to energy policy. Firstly, there has been some attention to the Government's projections on the availability and use of electricity. In Table 9.2 of the Long-term Programme, estimates that can be isolated indicate that the power-processing industry can have about 7 TWh of electricity less available in 2010 compared to 2005. I would like to point out that this table only contains theoretical calculations based on macroeconomic projections. These illustrate that Norway has major energy supply challenges in the coming years, and we need to take some action. The projections do not indicate that Workers' parity has as its political objective the reduction of the power-generating industry. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party wants to facilitate the viability of the power-generating industry in the future. On the contrary, the Labour Party will look at what challenges we are facing in order to secure the necessary energy for this industry tomorrow as well. Secondly, there has been a lot of focus on rising electricity prices in Norway lately. Let me go back a little bit. In order to mitigate the growth of energy consumption and stimulate the increased consumption of new renewable energy sources, the Government of Bondevik proposed to escalate the tax on electricity and fuel oil over a decade, St.meld. No 29 for 1998-99. From 1 January 2000, the tax on electricity and fuel oil was increased by 2,5 cents per year. kWh. In the 2001 budget, the Labour Party proposed an increase of 1.5 cents per year. kWh. The result of the budget negotiations between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties became an extra ear from these, i.e. an overall increase of 2.5 cents per. kWh for this year. The electricity charge now amounts to 11.3 cents per cent. kWh. If we look at the share of the charges in relation to the final price paid by households, this has increased from 8 pst. in 1990 to 18 p.m. in the third quarter of 2000. With increased power demand and increased electricity prices, as we now experience, the electricity charge's share of the total price actually goes down. There are considerable differences between taxes on electricity and fuel oil at international level. If we compare the Nordic countries, Denmark in particular has high electricity charges, 70 cents per year. kWh. But we also understand that people are complaining about current prices today. There are two things here, both kWh and the transmission system. But there are at least three ways to do something about the power price: 1st@item: inlistbox We can reduce demand and use of electricity.2. We can increase the supply and production of electricity, so we release a comprehensive import of power.3. We can reduce the electricity charge. I just have to stress that the introduction of the Energy Act in 1991 gave us a lot more reasonable prices. The working party wants to do something about the first two points that I mentioned. Through a broad-based strategy, we need to slow down the growth of electricity consumption, and we need to invest in new areas, especially wind power, heat pumps and gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e934	Norway must be an attractive country for the investment and development of new ideas and businesses. The values created by business are the basis for society's prosperity. The economy, jobs and quality of public welfare services of families depend on the competitiveness of industry and the ability to develop and renew. Future value creation in Norway is based on entrepreneurship and commitment in a diversity of large and small enterprises. Economic policy must therefore be designed to provide firms with competitive and predictable framework conditions. It may look as if the Government overseeingly shares this objective. According to the long-term programme, economic policy must be designed in such a way that the competitive sector is sufficiently large to finance the future need to purchase goods and services produced abroad. It is underlined that the petroleum industry is far from large enough to finance this demand in the future. The Government therefore considers that Norwegian industry needs to be guaranteed competitive framework conditions. I note that the actual policy of the Government is not fit to achieve this objective. The distance between the Government's words and actions in this area is alarmingly great. On the one hand, the Government underlines the need for competitive framework conditions, and on the other hand, the Government of the current year budget has proposed and achieved the impact of record tax increases directly affecting the competitiveness of businesses. Now we heard the previous speakers say that he understood that people reacted to the high tax and tax levels. I understand that this is a long way into the Workers' Party's big group at the moment. The government has as its objective the public sector to shift the share of real resources of enterprises in the economy. Instead of strengthening public service provision by increasing labour supply and stimulating productivity growth in the public sector, the Government is pursuing policies to reduce employment, investment and innovation in Norwegian business. The Government has repeatedly identified that competitive framework conditions also need to be measured according to criteria other than tax rates, competition policy and other traditional industrial policy instruments. It should be expected that such a reference was accompanied by concrete proposals for increased investment, for example. transport, research and education, more entrepreneurship-friendly legislation or improvements to other regulatory framework conditions. Without such proposals, this reference appears either as a matter of course or as a helpless attempt to minimize it all. It remains that the overall framework conditions that the Government can affect go in the wrong direction. And there is a deterioration in the policy-driven framework conditions that is why Norway falls as a stone to the list of countries where it is attractive to establish itself. The right is in favour of the Government’s ambition to be ahead of EU developments in public procurement legislation. A natural first step towards such a leadership role would be to introduce a general VAT compensation scheme for public purchases of services from private operators. Only this will ensure a competitive level playing field between private and public service producers. This is updated by the forthcoming extension of the VAT base to most service areas. I also think it is positive that the Government has notified a review of the various aspects of competition law, and in particular of the complaint mechanism for individual decisions by the Competition Authority. The current system, where the Ministry of Labour and Administration is the Board of Appeal, is not satisfactory. The right has repeatedly proposed the setting up of an independent review body for the decision of the Competition Authority. There is no need for new investigations on this issue. A change of laws should come quickly. For several years, the right has been working for a stronger commitment to transport, which can increase efficiency and competitiveness in Norwegian business. There is a clear link between good transport solutions and a competitive business. Large distances domestically, bottlenecks in the road network and long routes to foreign markets make it necessary to invest in road and port facilities. The right-hand objective is for all parts of the country to have a safe and modern infrastructure. In order to get the best possible transport solutions out of each public krona used in transport, we want private individuals to also have the opportunity to design, build, maintain and operate infrastructure such as ports, roads, railways and airports. The high level of the Norwegian tax imposes a significant competitive disadvantage on Norwegian industry. That is why we want to reduce taxes on the ownership and use of vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e955	A few speakers in the debate have been so lovable to remind me that I will not be here until the fall. Since it has been said in friendly order, I would like to thank you for that. However, it does not prevent me from interested in what is going to happen here for the autumn. Then there are also aspects of the policy of those who are rogue with compliments at the personal level, which scares me a little. It does not prevent the tame of such a debate from expressing both joy, a certain fear and a certain amazement. To take the pleasure first: we have a position to deal with today that shows that there is a broad consensus in the Stortingen on how to align our economic policies with the management of oil wealth. It is good, because a system where one protects the formation of capital from oil, but uses the return to build society further, takes on several important considerations, namely that it simply becomes more money for the construction of society, but also that one ensures stability in the economy, and not least that one ensures that the fund to be built up to meet the demands and needs of future generations, not least in relation to the age structure that the population will eventually have, is well cared for. It also reasonably ensures that we avoid the worst dangers of Ole Brumm's disease, namely that you put on where you should not put on – and as you know Ole Brumm finally got stuck in the hole of Wet Nøff. But this also means that we have defined the framework within which the political struggle must stand, and in that struggle and within that framework is what we need to determine the needs of the welfare society in relation to the needs of the individual. And the welfare community's need is just that it's a welfare society. It doesn't necessarily mean that we're all going to be richer all the time, but it necessarily means that security has to be there when security is needed. And security is needed to combat unemployment, but above all, security is needed when we get sick, when we get older, and when for various reasons we cannot feed ourselves on the work and income we otherwise receive. For me, the political debate itself is at the heart of this, and it is also here that the options are clear: on the one hand, in the debate, the view that taxes and charges released from the funding of the welfare society are a problem in itself, and, on the other hand, the view that security is the important thing. Then there is the choice between providing significant tax relief, which is pleasant for the individual when everything goes well, and defending e.g. the sick pay scheme, which is a huge loss for all, and the strongest for those who are weakest, when things are not going well. That's what we call ideology in solemn moments. That, of course, does not mean that there is no debate on the level of taxes. Even in the Labour Party, there is a debate on the level of taxation. It can be done, among other things: on the effect of distribution. That's why the government has said that it should look at the top tax rates in the budget submitted to the harvest. But it goes into distribution. It's not about tearing the ground away under a funded welfare state, which is what we need most of all – when we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e968	In the Communication, the Government writes relatively comprehensively about common welfare goods and the public sector and the need for renewal and efficiency, and points to a number of areas where there are significant shortcomings in the Norwegian community. Among other things, it is pointed out that despite the fact that Norway is one of the countries in the world that have the most doctors per year. The population, there is still a shortage of medicine in several places in the country. We also have hospital cows, which are unknown in most other countries in the Western world. Norway also has more teachers per year. students than almost all other countries. Nevertheless, the literacy and accounting skills of Norwegian students are declining. The government also admits that increased resource use in the public sector does not necessarily produce results in terms of increased well-being and better public services. The Labour Party has largely made the premise for the development of the public sector since the war and now points to the lack of success itself. There is reason to ask why the main party responsible for the inefficient and low-rational use of taxpayers’ money should be entitled to provide the necessary renewal and efficiency. That they now see it as several other parties have seen for decades, hardly any reason is good enough. Efficiency is not, as many think, working hard. On the contrary, efficiency is a matter of achieving results, preferably with the lowest possible effort. In the private sector of a free market, it is the market and competition that ensure the efficiency of businesses. Inefficient businesses tend to go bankrupt. In public enterprises, we have no such vigilance that ensures efficiency. However, there is no reason for us to impose other public requirements than for private activities in relation to the production of goods and services themselves. The fact that in public activities there are other considerations to be taken into account than purely economic ones is ensured by the political process, and has nothing to do with the production of goods or services themselves. There is every reason to focus on the efficiency of this sector, which captures an increasingly large proportion of our revenues, giving an unacceptable high tax burden, while at the same time dissatisfaction with many of the services produced. The social-democratic solution has always been to put more money into the sector, believing that it alone will solve the problems, instead of looking at whether it is the organisation and efficiency that is in the way, and not just the availability of resources. From the private sector, we know that the market works, and the sensible thing to do is to use the market to measure efficiency in the public sector as well. We can easily do that by postponing municipal and state service production. In other words, let private competitors compete between and with public employees about who can produce the cheapest, when the quality is defined in advance. There is no reason why the tasks for which the public is responsible must necessarily be carried out under public authority. Public authorities may as well buy these services from private individuals and be careful to be control bodies in terms of quality and price. However, it obviously requires a basic attitude that public services are available to users and not to provide jobs in the public sector. A wide range of studies and public investigations both in Norway and in other countries show that saving by outsourcing is money. But there are especially two things that need to be in place to get a real competition. Firstly, government must get a real pricing of its services. Today, it is often the case that when public services are to be priced, not all costs are included in the calculations. Often rental costs are rents, parts of administrative expenses, etc. not included. Secondly, we need to have a VAT compensation system that is general, so that there is no need for private individuals to be 24 pst. more efficient than public employees to compete. I do not think the Workers' Party will dare or dare LO in this area, and if the Workers' Party is to be responsible for the renewal and efficiency of public services, I am afraid it is the interests of the employees who will be governing, and not as it should be, that it is the interests of the users that are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e987	I thought first I'd say a few words about an important field that gets, if any, named today, namely cultural policy – not even the representatives of SV, the party that at least where I'm moving, often calls itself the cultural party. But it was not worth mentioning in the debate on policy for the next four years. I am very pleased that the Government is following up its Worker Party programme and is committed to facilitating the greatest possible experience of art and culture, and to strengthening public efforts over the coming years. There's music in my ear, culture in my ear. It will be continued, for example: pointing at ensuring the operational base and investment needs of cultural institutions through public promises to have thousands of years of establishment in all counties up to 2005 to provide library and museum investment plans through annual budget proposals In the setting, this is followed up by the Workers' Party to stimulate leisure, sports and physical activity and culture to local involvement and activity in the local environment. Voluntary organisations are highlighted as very important in this context. In addition, if the Labour Party proposes to do so, there will be a commitment to the cultural school, which will have additional promises already in the revised national budget. In the long term, all the elephants in the Norwegian school shall secure cultural experiences, with direct contact with living art and culture. Of course, this will happen in cooperation between the school and cultural sectors, and it will only be possible if efforts in the cultural field are increased. I was recently in Cuba. They started the music and dance training for the smallest children in kindergarten, and this is what characterizes the entire Cuban community. It wouldn't have been silly with a little bit more live music and dancing in the Norwegian everyday life. I used to have a line on the Christian People's Party leader Reply City Haugland. She spent a lot of time commenting that she had tried to take the time to take the initiative to step up kindergarten development and to reduce parental pay. I agree with her that the most important thing now is that there is a broad deal about such a bet, and nothing will be better for children and parents than that a wide multiple now will follow this up with monthly larger sums from the state. What I disagree with is the fact that increasing government licenses is just one of many measures to achieve this. A group of Barnehage-Noregs, which includes both public and private kindergartens, has agreed that there are additional operating privileges that need to be met – both in order to keep the kindergartens we have, to stimulate the construction of new and, last but not least, to reduce parental pay. This will be followed up by the government of Stoltenberg. The models are not finally set, but average prices will be halved by 2005. There must be a gift package for Norwegian families with young children. In addition, the Government will propose that municipalities be required to develop this sector. I have good experience in what it is like to be two working-out parents, and almost have no access to kindergarten. The canoeing between neighbors to make them a day-mother hope I'm soon a story. It's not a brilliant task. It is difficult to set specific quality requirements, it is an animal and income-grade payment, and the pace of the cycle can, of course, forget. I hope my children and others don't, and that our grandchildren get qualitatively good supplies in kindergarten at a price they can afford to pay. Studies show that parents are very happy with the facilities they receive; it is safe for children and parents, and they are of high quality. Good and affordable kindergartens will increase the freedom of choice and thus put the cash support scheme to the test. That choice a twin mother with two-year-olds who called me today, had, was to be home with cash support, or to lose money to go out in full-time work with the children in kindergarten. ‘Children’s parents must choose for themselves’, said the representative Bondevik earlier this evening. This family, with two relatively low paid parents in the health sector, did not have that choice. Half payment for kindergartens would, of course, increase this option monthly. Now, when I've been listening to the debate today, it's my impression that the centre party is promising more efforts in most areas. It is good that they agree with us that it will be necessary to have a level of taxation that we now have. However, questions can be raised about this going on, whether we take a note from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the representative of the Bastisen seriously. In fact, here it says that: ‘The objective must be to ensure that the growth of the public sector over time is not higher than the growth of the real estate in mainland Norway’. This may be a bomb under Velferds-Noreg. I have registered that the Center Party is not included in this comment, probably based on the same reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1022	For the Workers' Party, good growing-up conditions for children and young people are very important, as well as having a working life with room for all. The turbulence in kindergarten under the government of Bondevik led to major problems for young children’s parents. The Labour Party believes that all families who want to do so will have a children's playground for their children by the end of 2003, and we want to increase government funding to reduce the payments for the kindergarten. The provision of childcare facilities helps improve the conditions for the growth of children. I have listened with interest to the representative of Bondevik today. He is a mono-man in his desire to take over again as Prime Minister. The politics he's less busy with, it's the prime minister role for itself that's superior. He still took cakes, I thought, in the change of lines with Prime Minister Stoltenberg, when he asked if the Workers' Party would be on duty in relation to upgrading school buildings. For the sake of order: this presented the Workers' Party when Bondevik was Prime Minister. Christian People's Party voiced against, along with the rest of the center. The working party works for a good school for everyone. We're betting on quality in the school and on a school with room for everyone; we're betting on the public school. Both Foss and Petersen from Right have today been intrigued by the fact that Right wants quality, while in the Working Party we only talk about the school leisure arrangements. I don't accept that school quality is bad, but it can be done better. Therefore, work on quality development in the school must be continued and further developed. There is great local freedom in the school today; trials and developments take place throughout the country. The base ball shall be free of charge and free of ownership. No one should be excluded from activities because parents cannot afford to pay. And let me add that I'm satisfied that the Workers' Party will further develop the school leisure system. This is a very good offer for the vast majority of children who want this voluntary offer, not a welfare offer for parents, as the Right refers to the school free time scheme as. With the great local variation that is possible within today's education, Oslo should be a model municipality when it comes to school, because here the Right-City Council has all the possibilities. Right-hander shot here and could really show that bets on schools and school buildings were something they prioritized. It's not enough to refer to the number of crowns and ear that Foss said was the bet in the Oslo ball. Right must show quality, which means upgrading school buildings. Unfortunately, one cannot say that Oslo is in a better situation than the schools around the country. Work with a good school starts with the teachers. The most important resource in the school is the committed teacher. We have many of them, and through the new working time contract, wages are increasing. The agreement provides for the reorganization of school life and provides greater scope for the use of alternative educational forms. These days, the Church, Education and Research Committee here in this house is working on reforms in higher education and research. This is a historical reform, which there is a great need to achieve. During the last decades, Norway has gone through an educational revolution. The base ball has been expanded from nine to ten years, everyone is entitled to further training, and it has been opened for admission to higher education on the basis of real skills. We spend over 20 billion dollars on students, universities and colleges per year. years. But the biggest investment is that over 190 000 students will be able to deepen and acquire new knowledge. The growth of higher education has led to a more frequent student mass. The rapid development of knowledge leads to strong international competition among educational institutions. That's why we also need to facilitate the lack and so that as many as possible get a good implementation of their studies. It is in human knowledge our great national wealth lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1043	A long-term programme shall be comprehensive. Wholeness is particularly important for health and social policy, where there are good arguments for all expenditure, but rarely agreement on how to cover expenditure. It is noteworthy that the Christian People’s Party grants money for cash support, but at least that does not ensure more hands in the care services. We need 10,000 new public sector annual works every year during the programming period. In this case, full child care coverage at a reasonable price and reasonable school leisure arrangements are the best means of getting more people to work and more people on a full-time basis. It is bad that someone will scare long-term sick people at work. Short-term absences are not increasing, but long-term absences. Providing long-term financial punishment in addition to serious illness is unsocial. It costs to be sick. Then there are some parties that will punish them about. 280,000 patients waiting in line for treatment by refusing to help improve our health care system. The use of resources in the Norwegian health care system is now such that health expenditure amounted to 8.9 pst. of GDP in 1998, placing Norway in a sixth place among OECD countries. Measured per The population was third place in the OECD context. In 2000, Norway had reached a medical density that brings us to the top of the world, with 293 inhabitants per year. occupational doctor. Now, what we have to ask ourselves is whether we're getting healthcare back that is proportionate to the human and financial resources available. Very much is good in our health care system, but much needs to be better. This must be seen in the light of the fact that the need for health care appears to be increasing strongly due to new treatment options, increasing the proportion of older people in the population and improving the economy of the majority of people. I don't think people want to think that we have a health service that doesn't offer most of what people demand. If we don't get to this, we will quickly get a solid foundation for a private market with a correspondingly weakened public health system. Most people don't deserve it. Therefore, the Workers' Party in a secure social democratic tradition will help us to use society's resources in a way that provides the best possible service for all. How are welfare systems to be maintained and modernised? The Labour Party will renew through cooperation in the public sector. I hope public employees see through that cooperation is a better way of achieving equivalent health and social services than resistance to renewal. With a bourgeois increase, we know that privatisation will be the result. Where, then, is the relationship between rural policy and the development of welfare systems? Does anyone in the centre parties think that the ISS will have any economic motive for establishing a nursing home at Smøla in More and Romesdal? No one can guarantee the welfare state by means of small cuts in schemes or by granting more to the same old. Renewal can create initial uncertainty before everyone sees its usefulness. Will be e.g. The hospitals better managed and used their employees to take care of more patients, I am convinced that good health workers get better pay in negotiations with their employers. Some people talk about paying citizens to secure more money for the poorest, namely social welfare recipients. This is not a complete help. The performance of social clients should be increased on an individual basis when skilled child protection educators, socionomists and environmental workers use their professional skills for closer follow-up. A comprehensive policy is needed to ensure the functioning of the action plan on social and economic security. The heart of a welfare society is to be recognized by how we deal with those with the greatest help needs. Therefore, the action plan includes measures for disadvantaged families with children, long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, young people seriously ill without entitlement to sickness benefits, groups of disabled persons, people with mental illness, people with drug problems, homeless people and certain groups of immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1067	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1070	It would be thought that a debate on the Government's long-term programme would clarify alternative directions for the policy to be pursued after the elections if the election result were to indicate a change of government. That hasn't happened. Who will cooperate with who after the elections, and what they will cooperate on, has not responded to this debate. The joint comments were the basis on which we went to the elections in 1997, said Bondevik, referring to increasing the credibility of the joint comments of the centre in setting up the long-term programme. But there's no reason in the world to believe that the central parties will carry out what they say in the joint comments. They had joint comments on the transport plan before the last period, and there was a majority in Stortingen to implement it if they wanted, but the centre parties wouldn't. There were joint comments on continuing the framework conditions for seafarers before the last period, but the centre parties would not. So why on earth should one now believe that the central parties will implement the measures contained in the joint comments? I don't see any reason to believe that. On the other hand, what has become quite clear is that the small left is crystal clear here and insists that today's fee level be maintained. There gets big Right be so good bend if they want to be with and reign with little Left. Believeful, yes, who holds this credible policy from the centre parties? And the Christian People's Party shows its Janus face: maybe we'll work with the Right, and maybe we'll work with the Workers' Party, but for sure, we have some center comments in case it becomes a center government. Yes, I must say that this debate has clarified how small a credible centre is as a partner for other parties. I think it's almost frightening that it's added up to a lack of credibility now in such a serious debate just before a election. I would like to stress that we in the Coastal Party are at least uncompromising that we want increased investment out in the districts, we want increased investment on our way. We are uncompromising that we will maintain framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers and maritime industries, that we will have internationally competitive framework conditions for our business. The coast is exactly 100 pst today. greater than the Left was at the previous election, so maybe someone should think of a cooperation with a party that says at least what they're uncompromising on. For where the other parties are uncompromising – yes, it still hovers over the waters. No one knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1085	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1098	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1105	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that the 100 pst scheme. wages and salaries due from the first day of absence for employees are maintained.» Mr Andersen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1113	I'll be brief, it's just an explanation of vote. We do not really consider the proposal that the Socialist Left has tabled as absolutely unnecessary. It's a typical example of the exercise of kicking open doors, because it's a proposal to oblige the government to base its own policy. Usually we have practice so that we do not vote in favour of this type of proposal. However, given that we suspect that someone might find it abusive on any later friendly occasions, we recommend that our group vote in order for the Government to follow the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1120	The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is then addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-15-2.ana.ud382e1159	There is no record.
