ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-10.ana.ud116e576	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! That 146. Storting, which your Majesty has opened today, is the first in a new parliamentary term. Many of the representatives meeting in the newly elected magnificence have experience in previous periods. Their insight and experience will be of great value to the work of the Storing. At the same time, many new representatives are meeting this year. I'm sure these bring with them new impulses and strong will to valuable effort for the country's best. This Greatness goes to its responsible act at a time marked by the cruel terrorist attack on the United States and the tense situation that follows in the wake of the pursuit of those guilty of this attack, and a long but necessary fight against terrorism. Extensive international efforts will be necessary both to prevent and solve the serious problems facing the world community. And we also have to do our job in this context. The big business – as a representative of our people's government – will contribute conscientiously to this work, where not least the efforts to combat poverty and oppression in the world will have to be central. We must not allow ourselves to forget the distress and injustice that affects millions of people worldwide every day. Also in our home arena, the problems are many and challenging. Health, care, security, knowledge and culture will be key elements of our efforts to maintain and further develop the welfare state. It will be a great task for the Storting to help create stability and predictability in economic policy, further develop public services for the benefit of its population and combat crime in a world where events outside our borders will affect people's everyday lives much more strongly than before. The Roman Empire also offers strong bets in these areas. The current harvest session will be largely influenced by the adoption of the 2002 State budget. Budgetary management is always a demanding task. Experience suggests, however, that it will be primarily the means and not the objectives of conflict. I am sure that each of us will have the best of the country in mind, and at the same time seek to give our contribution to the benefit of people in those parts of the world where strife, oppression and distress prevail. I am otherwise convinced, Your Majesty, that I have all the representatives with me when I finally find it in my place to express deep sympathy for the survivors of the tragic flight accident that struck SAS in Milan yesterday. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and big problems ahead of us, we gather in the old and important desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the great hall, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-10-10.ana.ud116e610	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be interpreted for consideration in a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
