ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e54	The representatives of Ursula Evje and Ola D. Incense, who have been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: From the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Dag Danielsen, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Johan J. Jakobsen, Marit Nybakk, Lisbeth Rugtvedt, Lars Sponheim and Einar Steensnæs on leave on days 5 and 6 March, all to attend the 18th interparliamentary meeting between the Stortinget and the European Parliament in Brussels from the Labour Party Group on sick leave for the representative Gunn Olsen from 5 March onwards and until further notice from the Højres Storingsgruppe on welfare leave for the representative Erna Solberg from 5 March onwards and until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Sissel Dagslet, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Dag Danielsen's leave on the 5th and 6th of March, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André KukkestadFor Hordaland County: Harald Hove and Lars Arne RyssdalFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Kai Ekanger, Bjørn Hansen and Heikki HolmåsFor Rogaland County: Olaf GüdremFor Telemark County: Marthe Scharning LundFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Marit Arnstad3. Heikki Holmås is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Lisbet Ruggtvedt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e171	André Kvakkestad, Harald Hove, Lars Arne Ryssdal, Kai Ekanger, Bjørn Hansen, Olaf Gedrem, Marthe Scarning Lund and Marit Arnstad are present and will take the seat. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e201	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e212	Norwegian meat is safer. Norwegian animal health is better. We have to take care of those advances. Everyone now sees that those projections represent enormous values far beyond what can be measured in money. That is why health needs to be given priority to free trade in political decisions. Therefore, even when trade is affected by their decisions, public health surveillance must be considered and decided uncensored by the State. Last Friday, the Animal Health Authority decided that British soldiers should not be allowed to participate in an exercise on Fosen, in order to prevent infection – of course without political protests. The trade authority was given the decision. But in the case of imports of bovine animals at a value of 1 million. kr – during the year 2000 – the Animal Health Authority is not considered to be a professional authority. The Animal Health Authority has repeatedly written and said that imports of live bovine animals should be stopped in order to prevent the importation of bovine animals. The Council of State claims that it does not have a professional basis for imposing import bans. He claims that stopping one in any other way insignificant millions of trade in order to preserve our first place in European animal health status will be illegal. The professional advice of the Animal Health Authority is set out in clear text in letters dated 27 November 2000 and 18 January 2001, inter alia. The following letter is added: ‘Veterinary health surveillance takes note of the political decision not to impose an import ban.’ The Veterinary Institute has confirmed, on questions from the Committee, that there are facts from the Veterinary Institute on which the Animal Health Authority has based its advice and decisions. From the seminar of the Business Committee on 13 February, a copy of the main points of the Head of Mission Gudbrand Bakken is available. Under the heading «Future challenges», one of the themes is to clarify responsibilities between subjects, management, policy and institutional responsibilities. So it's not clear enough today, according to the dispatch manager. And it's obvious in this case. The question of whether or not a State Council may limit the competence of a supervisory authority on its own discretion will be brought back to the Centre Party. I agree with those who call it a molbo policy not to impose import bans and, at the same time, to copy the measures put in place in countries with far worse infectious status than ours – the measures that the Council of State has outlined in the Stortinget. We would not have had any debate about the cowardice measures if the Council had not provoked it by going against its own professional authority, against all those who express themselves on behalf of consumers and on behalf of an overall agricultural community. All of these will have an import ban on live bovine animals to stop the importation of bovine animals. It is now widely agreed that the epidemics now affecting Europe are due to the EU's agricultural policy, which the media and state councils now describe as a threat to health. When the epidemics and food scares have not hit Norway, it is due to Norwegian agricultural resistance to free trade in livestock and biological material. Many have called it protectionism. Now we see that it's wise. It is the wisdom of consumers to trust Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian meat. The Minister of Agriculture should listen more to that wisdom — perhaps even add so-called professional competence to agriculture. We need a new debate on our agricultural policy. Even cheaper food to follow price developments within the EU is a theme that has expired on date – as well as full free trade in domestic animals and meat products regulated only by customs duties. The control never gets good enough when the flow of goods is as large and the biological laws are as they are. Even fewer slaughterhouses need to be re-examined in order to reduce costs. I mean, it's really creepy. The State Institute of Public Health presented to the Committee projections showing that the number of dead people in the United Kingdom could increase from 92 today to between 5000 and 10000. And then it is assumed that no more animals are infected, and that all the measures adopted are implemented. We still know too little about the routes of infection from animals to people, whether other animals and parts of bovine animals can carry the infection. The experience of jealousy since the outbreak in 1986 is that those who have said that they were the leaders have been getting right all the way. How can we be leading where in the matter of jealousy? It's by research and by experience. It's by preventing re-proliferation through the pathways we know, and those that may exist. A temporary import ban for meat products belongs to the last category of measures. Such a measure must be handled sovereignly by the competent authorities in terms of both its scope and duration. Our measures must be based on the lack of safe testing methods for live animals, their insecurity for slaughter, their absence for shop products. Should we also assume that there are storks also in international trade in food and livestock, so that the health certificates on which our import controls are based are not the same as guarantees? The center party means yes. It is safest to buy and eat what comes from countries that do not have the most dangerous animal diseases. Norway is such a country. We have to tell people about it! And we have a responsibility that it still has to be like this. Then I'll bring up the suggestions that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e249	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e254	In that proposal SV promoted, it was a point 2 which was intended to review all the infectious diseases in domestic animals and to propose improvements to the legislation. I note with amazement that the Committee has dealt with this issue very summarily, and that is why there is a proposal on the table today. I would like to ask the representative Lund, based on his great scepticism about today's food trade and today's policy about safe food and that he is concerned that Norwegian food is still safer than other food: what is the reason why we do not support such a proposal that SV is now promoting? The inclusion of emergency measures and temporary bans now may be correct and necessary. But it's in no way enough to secure the situation in the future. When the situation has exploded in such a way as it has now done in Europe, I do not think that it is just Norway, but that in fact all countries in Europe that are now looking both in panic for the emergency measures, and have to sit down and walk through the entire regime in a new way to find new provisions that can better ensure us against the spread of diseases. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Lund, whether he would like to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 which is distributed today, or else he can justify why it is not right to address this issue in a broader and more thorough way than we are able to do in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e265	First of all, I notice that the three major parties, which constitute the majority, do not want to take a line, do not dare to take a debate on this matter of which all in Norway are so concerned! So they're not repeating the first article in this debate. It's alarming. This kind of fear we also saw in the debate on make-up. We didn't get any lines, because you didn't want a debate. It's nice it's not required a closed meeting in Stortinget! Other countries now want, like us, a full review of agricultural policy and what is needed to take care of public health. The exposure in Norway is probably the same, but not yet on the Stortinget, unfortunately. I think it has to come, it has to come. I think we have a main reason for this, because today we have a better animal health status, and we have, among other things, less of diseases that contaminate animals to humans. It's hugely important. So I fully agree with what SV says. We need a far broader review than what comes out of the statement we received from the Council of State and the private proposals we have received. But I think what we have now presented is a basis for moving on. I sincerely hope that there will not be a political achievement linked to the fact that for a few years, individual batches were forced back through imports of live animals into Norway, which are absolutely not necessary to make progress in the breeding process, so that they still have to believe the same thing, even if they see that it is wrong. We will now consider the proposal from SV in the course of the meeting. I think it is positive that SV has the commitment they have, and I think it is a pity that SV is not part of the nutrition committee, where issues like this are dealt with. Finally. I am impressed by the self-criticism that exists within the EU countries and within the political authorities there and that I am missing to those degrees in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e278	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e281	The fact that we are dealing with an important matter today is beyond doubt. The spread of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe in several countries and the risk of spreading foot-and-mouth disease should then provide an absolute basis for both reactions and reflections also for us in Norway. What happens is a clear demonstration that it is limited to how much and how man can exploit nature and other creatures for his own gain. The almost uncritical industrialization of agriculture, with almost unimpeded use of antibiotics and hormones that we have seen in parts of Europe, has its price. The efficiency requirement is clearly too far-reaching. Fortunately, in the midst of the great tragedy for individuals who see their life's works go up in flames, we see signs of political will for innovation. In Germany, Schröder has warned that he wants away from the large industrial farms where everything from chickens to bulls is born, fed and slaughtered by the assembly line method. The German Minister for Agriculture has followed up the announcement of a total conversion of German agricultural policy. I hope her statement that German cows should not take up anything but water, grain and grass, must become a reality both in Germany and elsewhere. Some would argue that what has happened must have a profound impact on Norwegian agricultural policy as well. However, in my view, it will be overreacting. Of course, we should also bet more on ecologization, as it is, among other things. be added to the agricultural notification. Compared to other European conditions, however, we have a small scale of agriculture that cannot be said to challenge nature’s limit of tolerance. Even what we have of what can be called economies of scale after Norwegian conditions becomes small in relation to the gigantomania that has spread in other countries. In Norway, we still have an agriculture where domestic animals are regarded as living individuals, and not just as lifeless meat and milk-producing machines. That doesn't mean, however, that we can just lean back in the armchair and let the bumble be safe and sound assured that what we see out in Europe will never happen to us. It is not done either by the authorities or by the industry. The best evidence in this way is the Minister of Agriculture's presentation of the Storting, the contingency plans drawn up and the procedures already in place. I have a great deal of understanding that many people can react strongly and with fear of the possibility of a disease such as jealousy spreading. And there are measures against the one we are discussing today. However, it is appropriate to urge us to keep our heads cold, so that the measures taken give us the security that everyone is entitled to, without imposing unnecessary side effects and waste of resources. I want to give the Minister of Agriculture credit because he has managed to stay calm in a difficult situation. The presentation to the Storting was very thorough and, above all, reliable. On this occasion, I would like to highlight in particular the reference to the letter of 18 January from the Animal Health Authority to the Council of State, where this body says the following: ‘It is our opinion that the specific checks carried out on imported animals at the time of slaughter result in meat from these animals having the same quality as meat from Norwegian animals in the case of cullitis.’ As part of the measures taken, for example: any risk material. The quoted statement by the professional team should, in my view, lead to that we all did our utmost to prevent undue fear and unrest from spreading. In this context, I cannot fail to make a major reference in the newspaper The Nations of 14 February, where the committee's leader is to say that 'the Minister of Agriculture will bring us down to the third division for BSE risk', in order to make it easier to get Norwegian EU membership. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State chose to ignore this kind of vulgar argumentation in a matter as important as this is for the whole country. However, I will not let it go unnoticed. First of all, it sows undue doubt about the honest intentions of the Council of State. Secondly, it contributes to the spread of consumer insecurity. Both parts are equally bad, because, as I said, it is a serious situation that there is every reason to meet with both humility and not least cause. That such statements weaken the credibility of the Centre's own commitment, I'm not so concerned, but you're invited to ask if there's just cheap political points you're looking for. In another newspaper, in Dagbladet, immediately after the case in Sweden, which fortunately was not a BSE case, the president of the Centre stated that it triggered the title ‘No one is safe’. Fortunately, the leaders of the Farmers' and Farmers' Teams expressed themselves much more closely. The leader of the peasant team underlined, for example: that the suspicion in Sweden was no worse than that in Norway last autumn. Finally, I would like to stress what the Council of State said about transparency, and that there must be no prestige in our positions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e313	When the prions were discovered in 1996, there was a paradigm shift in biology. Never before had we seen that protein structures could operate as they do – that they cause jealousy – and much of the knowledge of infection and risk had to be reconsidered. We are still doing that in the Western world. The lack of knowledge is recognised. If you're going to give professional advice, you also have to give advice based on what you don't know. Therefore, the pre-goods principle is very relevant in this case. Provisional import bans for the prevention of contamination and extensive damage to Norwegian livestock are therefore an important measure. The main problem here is, what do we know? What don't we know? If our professional assessments are just based on what we know, maybe the decision is simple. If, on the other hand, we are also going to make professional assessments based on the actual lack of knowledge, it is not that simple. Does the Workers' Party consider the recognised lack of knowledge relevant in this discussion? Or do they just rely on the professionals who just rely on what we know? Our control system is important, but it's not enough to be in the forefront. If we get cases of BSE in Norway, we will automatically fall on a lower health status, and we will actually have a weaker reason to ensure that we have temporary import bans next time. And what will happen if an animal with BSE is detected in a herd in Norway? Will all crew then have to be burned? If so, why? Professionals say that BSE does not infect animals. If no: what do you know for sure about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e322	I don't dare think about what would be the consequences for our society if you were to listen to advice on things that we don't know about. Then I guess we had to crack the sails in a lot of areas. So it's really about acting rationally in a difficult situation, and using the knowledge we have. Then there is no basis for e.g. to claim that bovine animals infect through meat. There has never been any record of such an infection. I'd like to ask, what do we do in the event that we find a cow in Norwegian cattle? So what do we do with the Norwegian meat? Shall we destroy everything that was produced from meat? In that case, it had to be the consequence of such a leading was-position as the representative Karlstrøm put forward. The fact that we don't have 100 pst. knowledge of everything in this field is certainly relevant and is then clearly recognised. It's just to refer to the Council of State's statement, which clearly reveals it. I think it's very commendable that you play so much with open cards, as you do in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e330	For the sake of order: in the letter quoted by the representative Breimo, there is a clear warning from the Animal Health Authority that imports of live animals are at risk of importing infection. They warn against it, and they add: ‘Veterinary health surveillance takes note of the political decision not to impose an import ban.’ When it's a trade that could be worth 1 million. kr, the Labour Party Government places the trade higher than that of avoiding imports of infection. The same was done in the case of food preparations, in the case of zinc bacitracin, and in the case of the question of whether we should be able to use medicine in feed additives for animals in Norway – commercial reasons rather than health. Health authorities protested in all three cases, consumers have protested, and agriculture has protested. Free trade in food and livestock is the cause of crises in Europe. The state councils going out in other European countries are saying, now we have to do something about it. That's what they say after these crises, after the crisis of hormone meat, and in connection with the discovery that there was dioxin in meat because of the use of waste oil in the feed. It is juxtaposed in European agriculture because it pays off. We've seen it now, in the last crisis, that shows that sheep are on the brink of lightning in Ireland in order for them to be exported to Europe as Irish meat. For the Workers' Party, the EU is deciding on this matter. Will former EU opponent Gunnar Breimo admit that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e342	I can't help wondering why the representative Morten Lund doesn't include what I quoted from the Animal Health Authority's letter, and which is essential in this matter, namely that meat from imported cattle is as safe to eat as Norwegian meat. But that is also true, I can confirm that the Animal Health Authority recommends an import ban as a leading commodity measure. But this issue also has a political dimension. Firstly, the measures we are taking must be accurate, and I am convinced that they are. Secondly, we need to have an overview of the consequences of what we're doing. This trade in cattle is not just about 1 million. kr, as manufactured. What will the consequences be for Norway if we cannot have credibility in relation to safe food and what we do in this respect, in relation to the enormous export values we have within, for example. fisheries? That's the ratio that we have to include in our assessment. Then I didn't quite understand where Morten Lund wanted to refer to my no position in relation to EU membership. But if it has any meaning, I can tell that it's still standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e351	I also need to ask the Workers' Party whether they in this case would like to support the SV's proposals that are on the table today, which constitute the most important part of item No. 2 of the Document No 8 proposals which the Committee has examined, but which have not addressed the issue of the overall review of the disease protection provisions. This is about taking a holistic approach, looking a little further than the current emergency situation, and about recognising the need for a new approach both within the EU and in Norway, in the light of the disasters we have now experienced in relation to food production. Then I need to ask the Labour Party another question. I'm sitting here with a message from NTB – I get to take it for what it is, whether it's true or not. However, it is said that in 2000, Norway imported 2,9 million kilos of meat from countries where there is evidence of cow disease and that these imports have continued this year. Part of this import is concerned, inter alia, with: in the case of carcases and half-carcases, which contain material which, according to the Council of State, must be in the high-risk group. If this is true, does the representative, Mr Breimo, see the need for a temporary ban to avoid the occurrence of cases of disease? That's what we're talking about. I believe that all those countries that now have this infection within their borders are as interested as Norway in that this does not spread. That is why I believe that action by the Norwegian side is in everyone's interest; no one deserves this infection coming here. So evil do not believe at all an EU opponent that the EU countries are.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e358	The proposal to which Mr Andersen refers is, as far as I can see, the same as that contained in document No. The 8-proposal which we have examined and which we have proposed to annex to the Minutes, bearing in mind that there are already sufficient measures in this area. The proposal is to ask the Government to review all infectious diseases in domestic animals, etc. After we look up in the media about what the Minister of Agriculture and his department is doing, there is just such a review going on. I feel that you have a very good grip on it, and I do not see the need for the Workers' Party to support this proposal. Then it's right that we also import meat from other countries. So let's do that. Once again, I must say that a ban must have a purpose – the import ban must have the intention of avoiding the spread of infection. But a ban does not help anything beyond the measures we have already taken. We remove all risk material in imported animals that are slaughtered, and when it has not been demonstrated that it is possible to spread through meat, we are therefore invited to put in place measures which do not have any intention of prevention but which will actually help provoke the EU countries in relation to the EEA Agreement. I can understand that those who are not involved in the EEA Agreement can take such a position, but if you want to continue the EEA Agreement, and are a member of it, you are wise to take account of it. Otherwise it must not be produced in such a way that no action is taken. A number of measures have been taken in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e367	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e370	As the President has also referred to, they revolve around the settings and the statement the Stortinge deals with, say, cow disease, also known as BSE, which is an abbreviation for bovine spongiform encephalopathy and how it is to be handled by the Norwegian side. It is very important to stress that the question of foot-and-mouth disease in the media today is not dealt with in the Storting. It is a highly contagious viral disease that may mean that Norway will have to use stronger instruments later, but it is handled by the Government today. Comorbidity can be described as a disease that can attack the brain and cause a change in behaviour, a gradual loss of coordination and eventually death. BSE has also been shown to be transmissible to humans in the form of the so-called new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Professionals believe to have evidence that this disease can be transmitted when certain products from BSE-sick animals are eaten. The Committee has given a thorough consideration to the matter, including: because it can have significant societal and health implications. Although Norway is currently cautious about the disease, it is important to obtain the necessary knowledge of sources of infection, incubation time and consequences, as well as the implementation of necessary and effective prevention measures. In the light of an enquiry by the representative of Kongshaug on behalf of the Left’s Storing Group, the Minister of Agriculture has made his own statement on the technical assessments of the risk of infection and the effects of measures against the environment on which the Norwegian authorities are based. In addition, the Committee has undertaken a significant effort to develop knowledge of the disease. In addition to regular committee hearings, a zoonoses seminar has been held with contributions from representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Institute, Norsk Zoonosesenter, Norsk Köett, the State Institute of Public Health, the State Agricultural Authority, the State Animal Health Authority and the State Food Authority. Fortunately, consumers still have confidence in Norwegian food. Fortunately, the image of safe Norwegian food has not been weakened after the debate on cow disease that has taken place both in Europe and in Norway. It shows a measurement carried out by the Building Research Centre. A recent study by the Nordic Council of Ministers shows exactly the same. The Nordics are taking up the riot about food safety with crushing calm. Only 3 pst. of the population fears jealousy. An overall committee has been concerned with ensuring safe food for consumers. It is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that all food marketed in this country is safe and that it is also perceived as safe. It is therefore necessary to have adequate control measures in place to allow Norway to maintain the safety margin in comparison with other EEA countries. There is a unanimous opinion that the proposal by the staging representatives Karin Andersen and Lisbet Ruggtvedt to introduce a ban on meat-and-bone meal in feed for livestock is annexed to the Protocol. The Government has banned the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for all food-producing animals. The prohibition regulation, which entered into force from the end of the year, is temporarily in force for six months and includes a transitional arrangement allowing for smooth adaptation to the rules. The ban is a follow-up to the measures adopted by the EU Council of Ministers to control the BSE situation in Europe. Although Norway is the best class in BSE status and prevention, there is no problem in following up EU decisions. We follow with great determination and zeal. There is no doubt that it is safe to eat beef in Norway. We're going to take consumers seriously by showing that we want to keep the safety margin. The Committee assumes that the Government is continuously considering measures that can help maintain the health status of Norwegian bovine animals and provide safety to consumers. The representatives of Enoxsen, Lund and Nymo propose a ban on the introduction of live animals from countries where bovine animals have been detected and a ban on the importation of meat products of bovine animals from the same country. As stated in the suspension, a minority consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left supports the proposal to impose a temporary ban on imports of live bovine animals from countries with a BSE status lower than that of Norway. In addition, another minority, consisting of the centre batch, will introduce a temporary ban on the importation of meat products of bovine animals. I expect representatives from these parties to justify their views and priorities in the debate. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Party of Progress and the Right, does not consider that there is sufficient justification for the imposition of an import ban at present. Imports of live bovine and bovine meat do not pose an unacceptable risk to neither animal health nor public health in the case of BSE. There are large-scale risk mitigation measures that the Government has established or is in the process of establishing in the Norwegian feed and food chain. All imported animals are subject to a comprehensive health examination both at the place of dispatch and upon arrival in Norway. When the animal is slaughtered, samples are taken for testing for BSE, while specific risk material is removed and destroyed. In the absence of a response to the BSE tests, the animals are detained. If the sample turns out to be positive, the whole animal will be destroyed. It can also be mentioned that imports of bovine animals are small – only 48 animals last year. Imports of beef are also small. It has been around 3000 tonnes per year, most of which originates from areas outside the EEA. Caucasian infection has not been detected in those parts of bovine animals that pass on to human consumption after SRM slaughter. Imported meat from which SRM has been removed does not pose an increased risk of infection with BSE. The Norwegian authorities may, where public or animal health is at risk, apply the safeguard clause of the EEA Agreement and adopt unilateral decisions which may result in suspension of trade when deemed necessary. The proposal by three central party representatives points out that each EU Member State has banned imports of live bovine and bovine meat from BSE countries. Spain, Italy, Austria and Greece have imposed unilateral bans on imports from countries with high BSE levels. The EU Scientific Steering Committee has stated that there is no scientific basis for implementing such measures, as other less dramatic measures will have the same effect. The measures proposed are in line with those taken by Norway. The EU Commission has therefore asked the countries concerned to suspend their unilateral measures without delay. Most of them have now lifted their bans on the importation of live bovine animals and semen and embryos of the bovine species. In its letter of 5 February the Ministry gave the Committee a thorough evaluation of the proposal under consideration. The Minister of Agriculture's statement was a follow-up and deepening in this area. Both sides have been shown that with sufficient professional justification it is possible to impose import bans – it is in line with both the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement – but it is established that there is no such technical justification in this case. The position is supported by Norwegian experts at the Veterinary Institute and by the EU Scientific Steering Committee. Both panels have concluded that the risks to public and/or animal health are adequately addressed by the measures taken. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e407	It may not have been surprising that the Labour Party and the Right would not be involved in any restrictions on trade with the EU. They wanted EU membership at all costs. I might have hoped that the Progress Party, which was not to those degrees a yes-party, could look a little different at this, also because the Progress Party says they're concerned about what the people want and what the people think. It has also been repeated: we take consumers seriously. But to the representative Hedstrøm: there shouldn't be much doubt about what consumers will do on this issue. The Progress Party has also been encouraged by the fact that our good animal health status can now make us an exporting country in relation to animal products. We've got good arguments. But will the Advancement Party be there to do something about it? If one animal is detected in Norway, regardless of whether we can prevent infection from that animal, we are moved down from the first place – not to the second place, but to the third place on the ranking. Then we don't have many extra arguments for Norwegian food. In the vote, the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Right are using threats that the EU Commission is very critical of imposing import bans. It is the European Commission that is responsible for the agricultural policy that the national governments say is responsible for this. The EU Scientific Committee said in 1996: this cannot be transferred from animals to humans. They were wrong – two to three months later it was proven. That's what can happen in other areas too – that's why we're talking about leading where. Does such a precautionary principle mean anything in the thinking of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e416	The questions raised by the representative Morten Lund are very comprehensive, but I will be brief. Live animals first: there is a rigorous process in relation to these 48 live animals that were imported last year. There are measures both at the place of origin and when they come to Norway. After slaughter, the carcases of each animal are hung in the slaughterhouse, the samples are taken and it is only after having received an answer to the samples that this meat may be passed on to cutting, processing and sale to the consumer. If the sample is positive, this meat will not be used, it will be destroyed. In the case of dead meat imported into Norway, most of it comes — and it is only 3-4 pst. of the entire consumption trend in Norway coming from abroad — from the third world and so-called MUL countries. We also know that in the case of meat which may have come from the EU, decisions have now been taken in the EU bodies to remove the entire skeleton. SRM slaughter is also carried out and it has not yet been established in pure dead meat that there is a risk of infection. So I think here we're using a precautionary principle based on known knowledge. But the Central Party and the Advance Party can agree on one thing: now we have a unique opportunity here in Norway to export Norwegian agricultural products. In 1999, we dumped 19 000 tonnes of prima pig and bovine meat for a lick and nothing to the rest of the world. If only 1 pst. of the EU's consumer population is willing to pay now the pure Norwegian food costs, we can export everything we can produce, without subsidies. There must be an offensive attitude from Norwegian farmers and farmers' organisations and the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e427	The decisions we make in this room must always be justified in the best possible way by the knowledge available and the competence we can apply for in order to make decisions. If you don't learn from history, you're at risk of making new mistakes, there's something called. If we go back a little bit in the history of jealousy, we know that as late as 1986 the disease was tried debatably, and British scientists were ridiculed by the British government when they suggested that one should refrain from using grounded bone meal in animal feed. The government then categorically rejected the possibility of transmitting infection from animals to humans. Ten years later it turned out that was the case. We also know that there is uncertainty about the length of the incubation period, and it is also those who say that it is not excluded that infection can be transmitted, for example. by milk. What is important in this context may be to recognise that we do not have sufficient knowledge and competence in this area, and that the stronger we need to implement the precautionary principle. And then my question is to the representative Hedstrøm: Does he think that we have enough knowledge of the matter we are dealing with today, with the various recordings that have been made, and does the representative Hedstrøm believe that the leading commodity principle has been followed, when the representative will now oppose a temporary import ban for cattle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e434	There is a slightly different assessment of how to define a precautionary principle, and to what extent it should be based on known knowledge. But I would like to remind you of the number of committees and what is in the setting, that the government is constantly being asked to evaluate the measures on the basis of new and known knowledge. Otherwise, I'll list some of the things that show how rigorous the security measures for the import of live animals are today – I don't know if I'm going through the entire lesson until these two minutes are over. First, the animal must have been subject to health control by the official veterinarian at the place of dispatch, the herd from which the animal comes must be free of the most serious contagious diseases, health certification must be issued that the animal does not have clinical symptoms of disease, official veterinarian at the place of dispatch must report to the regional veterinarian here in the country when the animal is dispatched, the consignee must report from no later than 24 hours before the animal arrives in Norway, on arrival in Norway the animal is examined, samples for several diseases are taken, the animal is isolated and marked specifically as an import animal in the form of a red tag in the ear, the information on the animal must be recorded in order to have an overview, including any movement out of the herd, the animal owner must report when an imported animal is dispatched for slaughter, the slaughterhouse takes samples with regard to BSE and carries out the slaughter, specific risk material, SRM, and should the BSE test be positive, the entire animal will be destroyed. And not enough with that: the first time progeny after imported animals is also checked and tested by slaughter. So I feel pretty sure that you have respected the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e442	The President has noticed that the legislation has been adapted to the reply time in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e445	I'm not so sure the Progress Party will secure this distinction, or is it just empty words? Because in this case, it's important to weigh risks against the knowledge you have, and the lack of knowledge you have, against the risk you take if you're wrong. And living animals are, as everyone knows this field, the best way to spread infection from country to country. It's widely recognized by everyone. If we go into the checks mentioned here in detail, we must also say in the name of justice that BSE has a long incubation period. In other words, in long periods of animal life there is such a low level of infection that it is not recorded by this amazing device, and that is. that the cow may have several calves to transmit infection to a new animal. When the animal can be slaughtered, it may still have a low level of infection that is not detected. If it has a high content, which is recorded by the arrangements we have, of course, the animal is destroyed and thrown. However, the obvious measure is to prevent the importation of live animals into Norway. Why does the Progress Party not want to ensure this advantage? Otherwise, we'll be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e452	We have been thoroughly involved in the various issues that apply to this matter, what the Government has implemented in various control and testing programmes, and what it intends to implement from 1 July, when it comes to testing all of the cattle. We have also carefully considered what the EU and the European Commission have done. They have now decided to prohibit the sale of meat on bones and meat on the spine. What does that mean? Well, based on what you know and what you're building on, you haven't been able to prove that pure meat is contagious. And why then initiate measures that have no effect? It becomes incomprehensible to me. I feel that the majority of the committee has taken good account of all the different aspects of this matter. And we must not forget that if we get an import ban on meat, we also reduce the possibilities for the population to choose. It is very strong for me, especially in a situation where possible negative effects have been taken into account through control and testing programmes until those degrees. We are today the best country in the EEA. The EU Scientific Committee puts Norway at the very top and says ‘highly differently’. That I think will continue in the time that comes, without imposing an import ban on live animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e459	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e462	The starting point for today's debate is cow disease and BSE. But what has happened in the last few days has made several of the proposals that are made in the context of the debate on cowhood, even more relevant in relation to other diseases. The proposal for a temporary ban on imports of bovine animals has already been partially adopted with the ban on imports from the United Kingdom and since Belgium. Given the sheer sheer sheer sheer sheath, the danger of spreading the disease to other countries is great. The Minister of Agriculture pointed out on 13 February that the measures we have taken must take account of the international obligations we have taken on us. But he also said that these international obligations should not prevent the health of people and animals from being put first. International trade in animals and food shall be safe for people and animals. The Christian People's Party shares that view, but so far we have separated teams with regard to what measures we believe there is a basis for putting into action. However, I hope that the Labour Party will join a temporary import ban today. The problem of bullying and the extent to which it has been demonstrated that it can be transferred to new animals has been thoroughly addressed by the Minister of Agriculture. So I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this, but I want to underline a point in what he said. Even after the heat treatment we have in Norway today, we have no guarantee that all the contaminants will be deactivated. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we already have a ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for animals that are part of food production. We thought there were sufficient reasons to impose a temporary ban on the importation of live bovine animals, with a background to the risk of spreading bovine animals. We're applying a precautionary principle. We can't be too careful. The development of the last week, although it is within another disease species, has developed in a scary way. The proposal for a temporary ban on the importation of live bovine animals was now much more topical than it was at the time. The person who reads the papers and looks at the new arrivals can't help but see what's happening to agriculture in the countries around us. Cows have been detected in a number of countries. Luckily, the alarm that went to Sweden was false. While the debate on the problem of jealousy and the necessary measures was under way, the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease occurred in England. This disease is highly contagious and can easily be transferred to Norway if we do not implement the necessary measures. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has taken this new challenge seriously and has taken important action. The import ban on meat and dairy products from England, and since Belgium, came quickly, as it was necessary. At the same time, I'm going to ask you questions as to whether we should not have a broader ban now, because this is happening quickly, and the day North Jutland has a case, it may actually be late on the day of Norway. Therefore, my challenge to the Council of State is that, with the seriousness he has referred to now, he also expands the area more than he has done so far. So I want to repeat: we can't do the right thing. We can't be too careful. I am sorry that the very question of import bans is running fast so early, at an early stage. The Council of State pointed out early in the debate that all imports of meat and meat from all imported animals were controlled, as opposed to Norwegian meat. Now we will soon have the control of meat from all Norwegian animals. I shall give the Council of State the right to ensure that it is not possible today to give any guarantee, even if as the Council of State expressed itself initially, at least as if it were safer with imported meat that was controlled, than Norwegian meat. That may not be the case, but there has been a good correction by the Council of State. Nevertheless, I would ask the Council of State to think about it again. Then I hope that the Council of State can look at the issue of import bans from a slightly different point of view from what he has done up to now. In a debate on Wednesday, the Council of State said that he could not impose import bans without professional advice stating that it has no effect on Norwegian animal health. I want to ask the Council of State to look for these councils, look for a basis to impose a temporary import ban instead of pointing to the legal arguments as to why we cannot impose import bans without a professional basis. The Committee has worked very seriously on this matter. We have had two separate hearings, one professional and one in relation to the professional and consumer interests. The impression you have left after those rings is that you also need to use the discretion in this. In this case, that judgement has led to the decision of the Council of State not to impose a temporary ban. But what came out of these rings was that the advice that came there was clearly far from a temporary import ban. In my view, the government has chosen a cautious line here and uses the discretion to say no instead of following the advice that says yes. No matter if a believe risk is high or low in order to get BSE to Norway with the measures that have already been implemented, no one can deny that we are more certain to avoid cow disease with an import ban than without it. I would like to repeat: we are safer with a ban than without, even with the control measures we have been given here earlier today. An important factor in imposing a ban on the importation of live animals is that it is not possible to test live animals. The test cannot be carried out before the animal is slaughtered and the contaminants may have remained in the country for several years. The meat will be translated in Norway as Norwegian meat despite the importation of the animal. Quite rightly, meat from imported animals is currently subject to specific checks, but errors may occur. Another important point is the uncertainty about the incubation time. We don't know how long an animal can be infectious until the disease goes out. The veterinary institute has noted that it may be an incubation period of up to 10 years, while the disease may also occur after only 20 months. The test methods are also not 100 pst. Sure. The Council of State has therefore stressed that we cannot impose import bans without professional advice. I believe that the advice lies leading, but that the Council of State has so far used the discretion in a cautious direction. So to another thing. I am pleased that a colleague’s committee points to the importance of providing the consumer with information on the products he is being offered. It is gratifying that a joint committee wishes to extend to other meat types the original marking to be introduced for bovine animals. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that there is now also a need to ensure satisfactory labelling and control for restaurants. A lot of meat smuggled into the country is translated into restaurants. We therefore need a system that provides customers with information and facilitates control of the origin of the meat. In the middle of the second serious thing that we are discussing today, I would ask the Council of State to comment on this, that he has made a mark on the committee's position, and that such work will be carried out quickly in relation to the labelling. Finally, from the Scientific Committee of the European Union and in today’s Chamber, a continuation of Norway is unique in terms of the legacy characteristics and the animal health status we have here in this country. I think it must be important for Europe as a whole to maintain that status. For this reason, I thought it seemed reconstructed that Europe would react so terribly negatively if we took rather radical steps to maintain the status we have today. Both the sale of semen, the sale of possibly also live animals and other types of halls from Norway could be an important base for Europe to have a healthy footing from the country that is actually considered to be the least at risk. That part I thought the multiples were completely ignored. Difor: My challenge to the plural is: dare to be a little bit more radical. It will be the generations of the future and future. So just one clarification: we're going to hit Karin Andersen who's on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e501	When one listens to the representative Lilletun, it gets the impression that when the Minister of Agriculture does not want to impose a ban, it's outrageous. Of course it isn't. If it was so simple that one could only decide to impose a ban on imports without taking into account all the aspects of the matter, that was easy. I don't think anyone in this room would be against a ban. But the representative Lilletun has our Council of State himself and knows that in a number of things it is necessary to see something broader than what a sensitive desire should go for. I feel pretty sure that once the Minister of Agriculture has come to the conclusion that a non-professional basis for imposing a ban is a reality that such a professional basis for doing so is not present. I am surprised that the representative Lilletun is so strongly advised that a ban should now be imposed. As I said, there's no one here in the room who, if it were right to impose a ban, wouldn't have gone in for it. Because it's quite obvious that it would be easiest to defend in public opinion. The Minister of Agriculture, the Government and we who stick to what has been said have, of course, a much more difficult task, and we certainly listen to the Minister of Agriculture when he says that per. Today, we do not have a professional basis for imposing a ban. The day the professional basis is there, I am absolutely sure that it will come promptly, whether it will be tomorrow or it will be a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e510	No, the representative Lilletun doesn't think it's because of the unwillingness of Hanssen and the plural that it's not being introduced. At the same time, I must say that is the way the matter started, as I said, which has made you more firm about not imposing a ban than one else would have done. I did not say in any way that it was easy to take a position, that it was easy to introduce it. But the representative Opseth was present on the same hearings that I was present at. I mean quite clearly that, based on the hearings, it was the basis of both conclusions. I'm not saying it's not quite possible to come to the conclusion that the Council of State has come to. It is not that he then goes across professional advice. It's probably in his professional advice that he can take the position he has taken. But what my criticism is about is that in such a serious situation one does not choose an interpretation, an assessment and a conclusion, which is based more on the precautionary principle. It is clear that every professional advice must also have in mind the precautionary principle. When one takes it, the State's animal health surveillance is completely crystal clear. But of course they maintain that it is also the law and the duty of the Council of State to make a political assessment. Hence, it is not the claim of me and the Christian People's Party that it is wrong will. It has not been said that this is a simple matter. On the contrary, she is very complicated. But I think we're thinking of future and future agriculture in Norway best to take the opposite view of what the state council has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e519	The representative, Lilletun, had a very strong defence for the position of the Christian People's Party in this matter, but I think it is strange when one says by the Swedish Veterinary Institute in Norway and by the European Scientific Committee that there is not a strong enough reason to use the safeguard clause in a case like this, i.e. there is no strong professional justification for imposing an import ban. What happens when the Christian People's Party, as a responsible party, still wants to do so? Well, we 'adventure' our entire salmon export. We who have an open economy and large exports of many goods put these exports at risk. So I would like an answer from the representative Lilletun on the following: If there is not a professionally strong enough reason for such a ban, why is the Christian People's Party still in favour of it? And are you willing to take all the chances this entails for counteractions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e524	When it comes to what possible reactions will come from the EU and that it would affect our salmon exports, the second time we are through this. We were through it also in connection with the food make-up directives. What was said quite clearly from the Government, from the U.D., at that time, was that there was no direct link between agriculture and fish compared to exports/imports, that countermeasures should come within the same area as the complaint case. So in this case it had to come within agricultural production. I would also like to ask that question back to the representative Hedstrøm, even though he is currently unable to answer: would there really be countermeasures at this time? Europe as a whole is lagging behind its agricultural policy. The situation when it comes to animal welfare in Europe is dramatic, and so the representative Hedstrøm, and perhaps the majority in this Chamber, think that Europe would really take strong action against a country, while trying to get an overview of the European situation, measures that would greatly affect Norway. I actually think better about Europe than that, even if I don't want to be in this Union. And then finally this with the professional. It is quite right that we have come to a different conclusion based on the professional. But I want to say again to the representative Hedstrøm: When, as the representative Karlstrøm said, one case is detected in a crew, the entire crew is destroyed. There is no need for a professional basis, but there is still a need for security. It shows that it is important to keep the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e533	The prohibition of imports is a recognised instrument in international trade, but there are rules of play for its use and certain premises must be met in order to make use of such a safeguard clause. The pre-goods principle is not a demarcated and applicable instrument in international trade. But sometimes I don't ignore the fact that you can get into a situation where, in the absence of other, more scientific approaches to it apply this precautionary principle. It's true in life in general. You might see a warning, and someone takes note of it, and someone doesn't take notice of it. But if you're going to roar this when you're going to approach this problem, you're going to have another question. We have two proposals today in the Inner East. S. No 160. The centre lot alone has a proposal for a ban on imports of meat products of bovine animals. Then it's a proposal where the centre parties stand together, and it's a ban on imports of live cattle. In the case of live bovine animals, we have heard several times now, not least from Hedstrom in his detailed statement, what is to be done on importation. At least there are good control systems. In the case of imports and trade across the Swedish border and other matters, controls are in reality completely absent. But the Christian People's Party does not support the Senter Party's proposal to ban imports of the goods which are not subject to control at all. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not fully apply its precautionary principle and supports the proposal of the Central Party on import bans for those goods which are not subject to any control at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e541	When it comes to BSE infection, it is scientifically well documented what is most likely to be a source of infection. It's live animals. And that's why one there chooses to use the precautionary principle. Based on professional advice, including: In the hearings I've shown, it's quite clear that it's possible to draw both the conclusion of a temporary ban and the conclusion that the Council of State has drawn. When one sees the situation that has arisen now after the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, I must say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we are considering a explanation of vote that goes beyond BSE and that goes on imports of meat at all. My name is Denmark and Sweden, and today we will consider voting in favour of the proposal from the Central Party, but then interpret the proposal further than is the case. Because it is quite obvious that when it relates to the disease that has now spread, compared to the other disease, the situation is quite different when it comes to what meat can bring with it. Therefore, I found that in such a serious matter as this, there is little reason to be static, but there is a great reason to really take the precautionary principle seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e553	I fully agree with the last Lilletun said, that one must not be static. It is clear that the time interval between the submission of the suspension and the treatment today is not long, and that is something that in a way characterises the whole of this case. So if you don't have a dynamic approach to what you're talking about in this area, and when you're going to introduce what you're doing, you're going to be left out at the moment you say it. At least it's raised above doubt. And that means that principles are inapplicable whether they're the precautionary principle or others. You have to have an actual approach to the matter. The right starting point for dealing with the matter of cow disease is that all food, including beef traded in Norway, should be safe. It is really not enough to have such a level of ambition, one must also say that food is perceived as safe for the consumer. And it is a common goal and a shared responsibility to avoid the outbreak of cow disease in Norway, but the measures to be used to achieve our common goal need to be assessed from day to day and – not to say – from hour to hour. And the actions we put in place must be relevant and adequate, while taking into account the international commitments we have taken on board. While these international commitments do not prevent the priority of public and animal health, the responsibility for the daily assessment of the measures to be taken, the scope of the measures and the duration of the measures must lie with the Government. Of course, the Council of State has a heavy responsibility for dealing with this, and I very much disagree with the chairman of that committee saying that the competent authorities have to decide sovereignly on import bans. If you cut out the estimation exercise where you get cross-references from different teams, it's all going to be a parody. That's why we have, I was saying, government councils and governments to make an assessment of all the cross-cutting considerations that relate to such a serious matter as the one we now have to debate. The statement made by the Minister of Agriculture in Stortinget on 13 February of this year seems satisfactory to me from the information available per year. Today, which was available per month. February 13th. However, let me add that the Government and the Council of State in retrospect will of course be assessed on the basis of the technical and political assessments carried out. I can agree with Lilletun that in the approach it is not stupid if the Council of State is looking for relevant arguments that are maximum in terms of protecting us from diseases that may come from the other side of our own borders. In its presentation to the Stortinget, the Minister of Agriculture stressed the importance of adhering to recognised international rules. We know that import bans are a recognised instrument in international trade, but we also know that in the rules of the game there are special premises linked to the implementation of an import ban. On the right, we want to support the line chosen by the Government, which means that import bans are also used as an instrument where this is relevant and justified on a professional basis. And why should action be taken which has not been shown to have a positive effect but which is obviously at risk in terms of negative impact? Much of the recent debate has focused on the introduction of a total ban on the importation of live animals from this point of view, with a cow’s cow’s disease — and insofar as a ban on imports of meat products in general. When the Right today cannot join a generally politically motivated import ban, as proposed by the Centre Party in Document No. 8:42, then it's based on more ratios. Firstly, it appears that the Council of State, on a technical basis, introduces the import bans necessary in the context of the disaster that is now affecting several countries in our neighbourhoods. This applies both in relation to jealousy and not least in relation to the disease that has now erupted and that has been mentioned today, namely foot-and-mouth disease. Governments seem to have taken a clear professional line in the justification for the actions considered relevant and implemented. This, I think, is a wise approach and, in reality, the only way to deal with such a situation. I think it is debatable of our export industry to say that it is completely uninterested what will happen if one imposes a politically motivated import ban. It's not like that, as it was said, that consideration of $1 million. kr in import value is relevant in this context. We have an export of less than 30 billion kroner on the fishing side, and we should go ahead to stop imports at a value of 1 million. This would appear to be the pure parody, given the potential impact on our fishing exports. It has been said that it is being cheated in Europe. There's no doubt about it. Morten Lund indicated that in England, after I understood it, it was common to transport sheep to Ireland so that it could be exported as Irish sheep meat. It gives me associations to something I saw in the newspaper a few days ago, where the Council of State mentioned niche production and some products that have geographical names but are in no way produced in the places that are in their name, and that very many at the breakfast table today may have been tricked when they have been associated with the Gudbrand valley when they are sitting with their brunost. So it's maybe distributed something here and something there. Karin Andersen said that no one is worthy of the infection coming to Norway. On the basis of some of the arguments in the submissions that have been made here today, a few may have the impression that someone would almost strive for a situation in which one would be infected. And no one will be more politically affected by any outbreak in Norway than just the Minister of Agriculture. I will assume that he will be the one who is least interested in getting such an infection. I think it is very important that we take joint responsibility for the situation that we, as a nation, are currently in, with the disaster that is spreading in Europe. I think that cheap political points in this case are not particularly well suited. I think in retrospect it might be left as the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e578	Norway has a world-class and good animal health situation. This should be added very much to the discussion that is taking place here today, because the situation is simply under threat. It's important to keep this state. Norway should protect its animal health and its safe food. This right I feel is valued and will be valued by the other nations around Norway. In today's newspapers, the main housing is uncertain and unsafe for both animal health and, not least, for food approaching Norwegian borders. It seems that the representative Gabrielsen passively pushes the Minister for Agriculture to act and says that the Minister for Agriculture is responsible, and that he will wait on the initiative and decisions of the Minister for Agriculture. But I would like to add that Gabrielsen himself, as a representative in Stortinget, also has a responsibility and should also feel a certain fear that what is happening around us can have a negative impact on Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian agricultural products. In this context, I would like to ask Gabrielsen, based on the situation that the whole of Europe feels is threatening, whether it is not difficult to predict the path of infection and what its situation will be like. Is it not enough in itself that Norway should put the brakes on for a limited period of time while this is being covered, so that at least we do not risk putting on any of the most important things that a nation has within agriculture — a safe health status and a safe agricultural product?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e590	I agree with Mr Gedrem in stating that we have some of the best animal health in Europe, and that that is something we should, of course, try to keep. We're spending a lot of money on that, we've spent a lot of resources on that, and we're going to spend a lot of money on that. So says Gedrem that Gabrielsen pushes the Minister of Agriculture in front of him. Yes, of course I do. How in the world would I be able to overestimate the professional discretion of the people who the Minister of Agriculture has at his disposal, whom we pay over the state budget for hundreds of millions to follow up on these things? How could I be politically able to overcome these analyses? I can't even read them in there, so hard they are. I don't have any options per. today to listen to the technical advice and the analysis that comes out of it. It's very hard. I have to say that during this debate I have at least not been weakened in the belief in the Ministry of Agriculture's ability to analyse this. Those who, on a political basis, are in favour of a general import ban, and the analyses they are making, whether it be Lilletun, Karlstrøm, Morten Lund or whoever it is, do not convince me at least. Implications are linked to a general import ban which is so extensive that it is far more than Norwegian agricultural policy. But the commitment to preserving the animal health we have, I think is well distributed among the parties. I do not see it as a party political matter, but as a matter for which both government, big business and the Norwegian people share fully and therefore are willing to pay the costs associated with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e597	First, a small correction to the proposal of the Central Party on temporary import bans on meat products. This does not apply to all meat products, but to those meat products which our animal health authorities believe may contain risk material, and in Europe the list of such meat products is increasing. The right most wants us to have EU membership, to become part of the EU and to let go of the discussions we have now, and to allow others to make those decisions. When we have not become a member, the Right has wanted to change our agricultural policy in that direction by proposing that the livestock concession law be abolished – removing the concession limits for how many piglets, how many piglets, how many eggs and how many chickens can be produced on the individual farm, and has actually achieved that dairy co-operation should not have a limit on size in Norway. There is a crew structure that is very similar to that in the EU. Does the Right see no link between economies of scale, free trade and measures of the cheapest possible food, which have been driving forces within the EU, and the crises we see in agriculture in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e606	As the representative Lund said, the Right has had a different view on a number of issues related to Norwegian agricultural policy than the Central Party has had, and has had it for a long time. Then he asks if I don't see the relationship between the disease image that is now taking place in Europe, and this that he said. It is now that the historical justification for all these constraints in Norwegian agricultural policy does not have a background in animal health and the environment, but has been primarily used as an instrument in Norwegian agricultural and rural policy. Once these restrictions have been set, that chicken houses must be available six months a year, it is not because it would be irresponsible to operate the whole year – no, it has to do with Norwegian agricultural policy, and it is not for animal health and the animal environment. From the Right we have said that if it is such that the animal health and environmental requirements can be met, there is no reason why one should say that 10 is the right figure rather than 20 if the environment and health are protected in both cases. I think Morten Lund is fully aware that there are many other reasons for the constraints of Norwegian agricultural policy. In the case of co-operation, it is relatively obvious that no co-operation must be established at such a level as to exceed the threshold in order to be able to say that good animal health and good environmental performance have been achieved. And I don't think they'll do that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e615	In his reply to Jon Lilletun, Kjell Opseth stated that the Minister of Agriculture naturally had a difficult balance before possibly entering an import ban. He also expressed something in the sense that if only the Minister of Agriculture had been able to find a reason to accept import bans, he would have almost done so. If there is a comprehensive description of the Minister of Agriculture's assessment, I cannot comment on it. But what really interested me a little bit, was to hear if the Right had any idea of what reasons it is that speak against import bans, in any case for live animals. Is it due to the fact that there may be any positive effects on agriculture or consumers related to the import of live animals, or is there, where appropriate, any more commercial policy effects or the risk of reactions related thereto? Furthermore, there is no doubt that there is today a debate in Europe on agricultural policy in the European Union. Many ask whether there are aspects of this agricultural policy that are part of the root image of what has happened both in the case of jealousy, and perhaps even stronger in the case of foot-and-mouth disease, which is more relevant. What I want to challenge to the right is this question: is the development we see here something that Gabrielsen sees as relevant in relation to a discussion on agricultural policy issues? Could this also be a reason to change aspects of Norwegian agricultural policy, if any? And could it be that some measures that may justify a partly different nature have positive effects on animal health as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e624	It's nice to hear the hove in the hall again. He has a legal approach to the issues, and that is so much interesting. He asked about the issues that contradict the introduction of an import ban. The general starting point, which normally starts with the bus, is that this should be allowed, and then there are some exceptions for when a ban should be imposed. It is then that international trade has agreed that this should be freely moved. But then there are security clauses for when bans can be imposed. In that case, in a relevant situation that is currently under way, it has to be assessed against the regulations in force. Then you can have a general discussion about what speaks for and what speaks against. But it's quite obvious that here there's not enough argument to have a prohibition at my discretion, because the way we handle the 20, 30 or 40 imported kvägen is enough for one to say that the imported meat is safe. When you have said that, and if it should be objectively stated that that is the case, there are really no arguments left to impose such a ban as long as you have an agreement that permits access to cross-border trade, so it falls away by itself. So to European agricultural policy and whether it is relevant to Norwegian agricultural policy. Both yes and no. What has been the main problem in Europe is a huge overproduction of absolutely everything. The second characteristic is that in many cases the size of crews is enormous in some EU countries compared to Norway. I don't think it's possible to imagine that Norwegian agricultural policy should be based on the same principles. I can see no more than the Advance Party either that has addressed it just now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e634	The cord shift is over. The President will notify that it has called the alternate of Oslo, Heikki Holmås, now has the teke seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e642	I will first address the proposal that has been distributed. It doesn't matter to fool nature. The meat bulbs that are now burning around Europe are no solution to the problems we see, but only disaster response. It is a kind of tragic heartburn that alerts to the collapse and crisis of agricultural policy, where cheap food has been the only thing that counts. Nature has the field of 'a crushing judgment' over industrial agriculture, writes Aftenposten on 24 February. Its tighter livestock management, its more transport and greater risk and damage when the accident is over. The consequences are enormous when we break so fundamentally with nature's principles that ruminants are made carnivores – all in the name of the cheap steak. Free flow is risk behaviour and has little to do with lead was. Out of the disaster it may increase a recognition that it needs to be reformed. We must operate with nature, not against it. International agriculture is characterised by industrialisation, long-distance transport, price pressure, increasing consumption. These are ways of producing food that in itself is pathogenic, and that is created for the spread of disease. This is politics, whether the representative Gabrielsen likes it or not. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has now expressed a strong opinion on the situation there, suggesting that there is a clear link between the development of the disease we are seeing today and the deeper problems in agriculture. What do we do? The government imposed a ban on meat-and-bone meal last year, and that's good. The reason why SV promoted Document No. The 8 was that the Minister of Agriculture expressed himself this way: if the EU does, we will. – It is not good enough; we have a maritime responsibility. The SV is also promoting a proposal today for a comprehensive review of the disease protection provisions. I was a little frustrated that the committee seemed almost to have overlooked this proposal. With a slight correction in the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives today, it seems that there can be a majority in favour of this proposal, which, in my view, is necessary because the situation requires it. The government has to deal with this sea from day to day, but no one can seriously believe that what has happened should not lead to a changed and more stringent regulation. It doesn't just happen with us. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, to immediately impose a temporary import ban on live cattle, we support in SV. In fact, this is more relevant because of foot-and-mouth disease than because of the situation of the patient. In its statement, the Council of State recommended the industry to import semen and embryos rather than to import live animals. Just before Christmas, a broad majority in the Great Britain, all except SV, did the economically less risky import of live animals – which means that there are many who have a way to go before you see the whole thing in it – but the point is that the Council of State's own advice points to the fact that it should be as minimal as possible. Why that should be possible in the situation we are today is difficult to understand. Proposal No. 2, from the centre lot, the immediate imposition of a temporary ban on the importation of meat products of bovine animals is also more relevant in relation to foot-and-mouth disease than to BSE. The problem today is that none of the proposals are really comprehensive enough for what we are up to today. It also appears unlikely that the EU, which is now in a state of panic after measures that may bring the situation under control, would have strong counter-reactions. Australia and New Zealand have imposed a ban. So this isn't about a trade war, this is an emergency, and we have to get a recognition of that. This must be fundamental: animals and plants are not machinery. Food production needs to be transformed and become more organic and animal friendly. We must not destroy the advantages we have in Norway that reduce the spread of infection. Norwegian food can be best in the future too if we add it. In the long term, import bans are not a solution. SV wants less transport of animals and safer food trade. But we also have a lot to sell, and therefore the control regimes need to be strengthened. So in this case, we are promoting proposals for a complete review of the rules on the protection of infection. In addition, SV today submits a proposal to the Stortinget to get its own big message on organic farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e670	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e673	Food security has become a policy – almost overnight. In recent days, new outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease have marked the media and people's awareness throughout Europe. Pictures of entire animal herds that have to be slaughtered, burned and destroyed have made a deep impression on most of us. And it might also question industrialised agriculture. In the current situation, I think it's more important than ever that people can really trust politicians and governments. It's about trust. Norwegian citizens shall be able to rely on peer review and peer review and use the best available risk assessments on food safety, animal and public health issues. If we do not do so, but choose either to listen to professional advice or to maximize crisis and play on fear, the Storting will lose confidence and respect for food security, consumer policy and public health issues. But in addition to the professional advice, it is also our duty and our responsibility to exercise political discretion, what we often call ‘to use sound peasant wealth’. This could be an appropriate example. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Agriculture on the way he has dealt with the risk of foot-and-mouth disease so far. To a far greater extent than in the problem of mental illness, I feel that from the first day the Minister of Agriculture and the Government has dealt with the issue with the necessary seriousness, has closely linked to the country’s foremost expertise in this area, and – last but not least – is set to listen and follow their advice. I think that's trustworthy. Although the dimension was different, it was precisely professional advice to protect the health of people that was at stake when the Left, a month and a half ago, opposed two EU directives to allow new additives in food, with the possible consequences of these substances for public health. We simply could not be involved in the overwhelming majority of consumers' interests. It was the same concern for people's confidence that public health is taken seriously by the government, which made me ask the Minister of Agriculture, on behalf of the Left, on 19 January, to make a statement in the Stortingen on the government's policy to prevent the transmission of jealousy to Norway. At that time, I felt that the Minister of Agriculture, as a self-appointed representative of Norwegian consumers, did not sufficiently clarify the strategy of the authorities to protect the interests of consumers. It was absolutely necessary to have all the information and professional assessments of the risk of infection and of the real impact of measures against the cow disease on the table. Only an active information strategy can cope with the difficult balance between not nagging under unjustified fear and uncertainty, and not spreading false security, which later turns out to be unsustainable. On the basis of the initiative of the Left, the Minister for Agriculture has made such a presentation. It gave a good insight into the government's handling of the matter, and it shows that the problem of jealousy is being taken more seriously as public opinion has become involved in these matters. For the Left, it is essential for public health and consumer confidence in food safety that Norway is also able to avoid the introduction of comorbidity in the future. Therefore, we believe that a temporary ban on the importation of live animals from countries with proven bovine disease is a necessary instrument. It is recommended, for example: by the State Animal Health Authority, the Council of Consumers and the «Food and Environment Network». In the opinion of the Left, the EEA Agreement does not prevent such import bans either. I am therefore surprised that the bulk of the population ignores technical advice on a temporary import ban on live bovine animals from countries where cow disease has been detected. In the examination of the Food Mining Directive, it was used as an argument that traders and traders will not deal with products up to the permitted limits, but will nevertheless adhere to the established schemes. This, I believe, is a secondary argument. It is an important principle approach to this matter to know what the role of the authorities is. It is important to reiterate and underline that through policy-making, governments have to take responsibility for national schemes and that private individuals have to take responsibility for their actions. It is generally important to distinguish between private risk and system-based risk. The system-based risk, as politicians, we need to take a special responsibility to minimise it. That's what politicians are supposed to do in dealing with these issues. So finally, it's a combination of professional advice and the precautionary principle that makes the Left have the position that we have. The left will also support proposal No. 2, from the minority, present in the setting. It is not least from recent events with foot-and-mouth disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e694	There are, of course, a lot of things you might now have thought of discussing with the Stortinget. The oral and cloven-hospital situation is a natural puncture. At all events, there has been exciting talk about a wide-ranging debate on EU agricultural policy. Where is it? Where's it going? Many of these topics are interesting and exciting to discuss, but in this article, however, I have to deal more strongly with the issues that are listed on the Stortinges agenda, and I will therefore focus on them, at least in the post. I would like to start by briefly summarizing some of the main points from the statement I gave to Stortinget on 13 February, and get into some new moments that have come to the end of the day. As I said in the statement, we have put in place comprehensive measures to ensure that, with all the knowledge we have today, everything Norwegian and foreign meat marketed in Norway is safe. This is because the control of animals and meat that takes place both in the exporting countries and at home is sufficient. In addition to the removal of meat bones from the food chain, I would like to mention in particular the testing of all imported animals and the removal of risk material, so-called SRM, from the carcases of both Norwegian and foreign animals. I have also provided a presentation of our use of the safeguard clause, which shows that we have the necessary means to put in place further measures if there is a basis for this, and has mentioned that the safeguard clause has also been used in a number of contexts. I am pleased that the majority of the Stortinget through its treatment of Document No. The 8th proposal from, among others, Parliamentary representative Odd Roger Enoksen has joined the assessments made by the Government and supports whether that line has been chosen by the Government on this issue. With regard to new elements, I will first mention the action and communication plan presented by the Animal Health Authority, the Food Safety Authority, the Agricultural and Veterinary Authority last week. The plan came about after close cooperation between the authorities, industries and consumer organisations. A preparedness group has also been set up under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture to deal with possible acute situations. Furthermore, the State Council last Friday promoted a landfill proposal on the expenditure coverage related to the ban on meat meal in feed and the extended testing programme. I would also like to mention a number of new investigations in progress to further strengthen the level of safety vis-à-vis consumers: firstly, the extent to which BSE is likely to spread to the sheep population and, in that case, the measures necessary to implement the second to what extent removal of the vertebral column will help to reduce the risk to the third of the suitability or inappropriate use of meat bones as fertilisers or soil improvers and last but not least, the continuation of work on the marking of origin of more than bovine species; Since I made my statement on BSE in Stortinget on 13 February, a further four countries have achieved the same status as Norway in terms of the likelihood of a lack of BSE infection. It's Botswana and Namibia, from which we import a lot of beef. The other two countries are Swaziland and Nicaragua. I will come back to this with the professional advice and to the question of whether I have followed them. That was also a key point in my presentation on 13 February. This question has been given a great deal of space in the position of the Business Committee, and I want to elaborate and clarify this point further. I have always adhered strictly to the technical and scientific advice I have received from the authorities, both outside and at home, who are set to carry out a risk assessment in this matter. In the long term, something else would have given us unintended and unintended consequences both in relation to our own home track and in relation to our trading partners. It is the Swedish Veterinary Institute in Norway and the EU Scientific Steering Committee that have provided the technical basis for my assessments and the actions we have taken. I haven't heard anyone criticize me for just this. The reports I have received from these institutions cannot be interpreted as supporting an import ban on live bovine animals from EU countries, with the exception of Portugal and the United Kingdom, given the other measures we have taken. It is therefore surprising that the minority in the position of the Business Committee scarcely mentions these institutions in their comments. I am at all somewhat surprised and amazed at the tone and line it is put up to by the minority in this matter. I have followed the professional advice given by our top trade unions in Norway and Europe, and I have continued the line followed by the Bondevik government, both in terms of the use of the safeguard clause, and in terms of the possible prohibition of the import of live animals. That this government should be passive about the use of the safeguard clause in the EEA Agreement, I strongly reject it. Based on this very clause, the Government now assesses from hour to hour whether an import ban on food and live animals from all over Europe will be necessary, but in the light of the foot-and-mouth disease situation. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that I am very pleased with the action and communication plan presented. I believe that this will be very well suited to dealing with any suspicion or detection of BSE in Norway. I also attach great importance to the fact that the communication element of the plan is aimed at all the departments and industries concerned, and not least at the public and the public. I see it as one of the most important tasks for me in the future to keep an open line and dialogue with the industries and consumers. Looking at the behaviour of consumers in the market and the study from the MMI presented last week, it appears that we have been confirmed that the authorities’ management of food safety issues has gained general support among the majority of people. One may even record an increase in the safety perception in general in the last six months, although at the same time, naturally, a slight increase in BSE concerns has been recorded. When one considers this situation up against it one can register in almost all other countries in Europe, I think this is positive. I also want to say that it is clear that it is not easy to communicate security and security measures in the situation we are now in. On the one hand, we are debating today what measures are needed to implement related to BSE. It's a disease that the professional authorities say is not a traditional infectious disease. It is a disease that infects animals by eating infected feed and can also infect from cows to calves. Specific professional measures are required to implement prevention of that disease. On the other hand, we are discussing measures to prevent the spread of perhaps the most contagious animal disease that exists in the world, and that, of course, requires a completely different set of responses than the first. That is why it has always been so important for me to say that, yes, I take the political responsibility associated with the decisions that need to be taken here on an ongoing basis, but we have to base the political decisions on the professional advice we receive. That is why I have strictly adhered to asking the Veterinary Institute very accurately and precisely which risk assessments form the basis for, for example. measures against BSE. I have also followed the technical advice given to me by the body responsible for providing risk assessments to the authorities on these demanding issues, just as we are now asking for professional assessments of measures to prevent the spread of foot-and-mouth disease. Of course, we are also prepared to follow fully the professional advice we receive in this area, even though some of the measures we are discussing are characterised by some as one of the most dramatic things we have done in Norway since the last world war.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e746	Although the Minister of Agriculture was something, it is probably a bit strong to say polluted, but a little surprised by the tone of minority comments, I will pay great tribute to the Minister of Agriculture for the package of measures that came a few days ago, likens to the main impression of preparedness and bet that has now taken place this weekend to meet an even more dramatic situation that is on the European continent. I'd like to express that. But then an actual inequality on some points concludes. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a few questions. The pre-variant principle was to a small extent involved in the distribution and was used to a small extent today. Animal health surveillance is quite clear. The 'lines' raise a good deal of professional arguments, while also including them in the professional arguments it leads to the precautionary principle. Is it a principle that the Minister of Agriculture is not particularly busy? And does he agree that there is a political assessment that has been made here, and that it is possible to reach the opposite conclusion based on such an assessment? So until what the Minister of Agriculture says he builds on when it comes to saying no to minority proposals, the most diverse professional councils from Norway and Europe. I have great respect for the Norwegian professional councils and, of course, also parts of the Scientific Committee. But I would like to remind you that it is the professional advice on which European agricultural policy has been built, which has led us into the situation we are today, so I am not very pleased when the Council of State calls them all to the lowliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e755	Let me just start by saying that it had to be at least these professional advice that made the government of Bondevik live for two years without going to the step of imposing import bans, for example. for live bovine animals. So that government set up and administered a system of full access to imports of live cattle all the time while in government. And it wasn't a situation where BSE was free in Europe, it was a situation where BSE spread in Europe. Then there are several people who have mentioned the Animal Health Authority. And there is reason to follow up on what the Animal Health Authority says when managing the arrangements to be implemented. But the letter from the Animal Health Authority says: ‘An animal originating from a country with a higher risk of cullitis than Norway hardly represents any strain on the feed and food chain after current knowledge. In this context, the routine testing of all imported animals and the removal of risk material during the slaughter of all bovine animals are important. [[SRM]] It is our opinion that the specific checks carried out on imported animals at the time of slaughter result in meat from these animals having the same quality as meat from Norwegian animals in the case of cullitis.’» That's a pretty clear statement. There is a technical assessment related to the risk of spreading this disease to Norwegian animals or to the risk of putting a threat to public health. I take note of the fact that the Animal Health Authority still wants an import ban, but they do not give me any professional advice to argue against the EU for when we would have decided to introduce it in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e767	We in the Progress Party are very pleased with the way in which the ministry, in consultation with specialist bodies, has dealt with the BSE issue. We seem to be ahead of developments and are constantly considering new measures. It is a responsible way of dealing with this kind of problem, and it is constantly based on professional advice, as underlined by the Council of State. But I also want to get into this with foot-and-mouth disease, which the Council of State so far was at the end of its article. This is, of course, a completely different and highly contagious viral disease which one must have completely different measures if it is now found that there is a spread to the European continent. According to the media today, antibodies to foot-and-mouth disease have been detected in France, and then we have to see this in a completely different perspective. I'm an Eastfold representative. We have almost 30 border crossing points to Sweden, and I expect that if this spread is now taking place across large parts of Europe, there will be significant measures from the Norwegian side as well. I would like to ask the Council of State what information he has received today is credible, and what is currently available from the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e776	Let me first say that I agree with the description from the representative Hedstrom of the difference in these two diseases. What is a very important point for the Government is the issue of distribution or not to the continent. It is clear that once you get a spread to the continent, the infection is taken into a completely new transport system, with completely new pathways for infection. And very many of these paths act, among other things. on the Swedish border, because there is a large Norwegian market for payment, and along the Swedish border, meat is sold from a number of European nations. That's why a spread to the continent is a very critical factor. Now you do European authorities – French, Belgian, etc. – a major effort to prevent the spread of the infection. There are thousands of animals slaughtered, there are intensive control procedures going on, and we're still choosing to trust for so long that we succeed in preventing a spread across to the continent. If the opposite happens, we are facing a new, dramatic turnaround in this matter. The Government then considers that a total import ban on meat and milk products and live animals from all over Europe is to be imposed in order to prevent the spread of the infection to Norway. It is clear that we will depend on cooperation with the people in order to do this in practice. The limit is so long that it will be very difficult to establish adequate control procedures, so we will depend on people to understand that in that case, there are measures the authorities are implementing, not because we want to be trolled, or because we want people to hurt, but because we want the best for Norwegian animals and Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e785	Oral and cloven-hospital disease and jealousy are both worst in their own way. I've emphasized that there is jealousy that takes human life – it can be about thousands in the next few years only in England. That is why I have stuck to that matter. The council repeats that he does not have a professional basis for stopping a trade that amounted to less than 1 million. NOK 2000 Probably in 2001 100 000 kroner is the amount of trade that we do not have the opportunity to stop. I assume that it will be a political assessment to look this up to other things. What is animal health worth? And what is public health worth? Or should such assessments not be made? It is stated in the description of the EEA Agreement in the context of the veterinary agreement that we have the opportunity to do so, and we have a greater chance of doing so than those who are EU members. Animal health surveillance said in November last year that they would advise against the importation of live bovine animals. It was last said in the consultation with the Committee that the possibility of the introduction of external contamination is still present via the importation of live animals. Their basis is the Veterinary Institute and the Scientific Committee of the European Union, from which the Council of State states that he has received his professional advice. Is the Animal Health Authority not able to assess the professional advice, which is really the professional advice that the Council of State says he needs? On the Internet page of the Animal Health Authority, it says among other things: on the tasks: to ensure national interests in international trade in animals and animal products. It's one of their tasks, they claim themselves. Another is the prevention and control of infectious diseases, including the reduction of the risk of introduction of live animals and products. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Does the Animal Health Authority not have professional competence in matters where trade concerns are included in the picture? Does the Animal Health Authority just go around imagining that they have such a professional competence that they can give advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e799	Firstly, I would like to say that it has been very nice to hear Morten Lund talk about Norwegian agricultural policy as he has done today. It is not often that we hear so many good words about the agricultural policy that has been pursued in the last 15-20 years, as we have heard from the Central Party today. So a little bit closer to the question of the State Animal Health Authority. In my first reply I referred from the written material sent to me by the Animal Health Authority. And I would like to repeat the conclusion: ‘It is our opinion that the specific checks carried out on imported animals at the time of slaughter result in meat from these animals having the same quality as meat from Norwegian animals in the case of cullitis.’ It's a clear professional assessment. So the Animal Health Authority also says: ‘From these considerations’ — as one has then summed up — ‘it is important to avoid burdening our food production with associated procedures and control systems with a higher risk of infection than we already had in the country’. Yes, I understand that the Animal Health Authority means it. However, there is no technical justification for imposing an import ban. The professional justification for an import ban must be a threat to animal health or to public health. But here, in the letter from the Animal Health Authority, we have a clear statement that it is not a threat to animal health nor a threat to public health. In this way, the letter from the Animal Health Authority is almost the strongest document we have that we do not have a reason to use the safeguard clause in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e818	One of the main reasons why bans are now being argued against is the fear that this could have consequences for Norway in other areas, or as the Council of State says: In a broader context, this is assessed differently. It is true that, in the longer term, bans are, of course, not desirable. There may be a slight reduction in the transport of live animals and food over long distances – I think everyone agrees – but we have a legitimate desire to both export and import food. What kind of signals has the Council of State been given so that it can in some way justify that we would be met with such sanctions in the situation we are in now, when the EU countries are almost in a panic-carded situation? Have any contacts been made? Is there any point in saying that the European Union will react to us with great difficulty because we are doing what the seas are now struggling with? So another point that concerns the import of animals. In the statement, the Council of State states that he recommends the professional community to import semen and embryos rather than live animals. Furthermore, he says that the Animal Health Authority has gone for a ban, but without providing any professional justification. In that case, what is the rationale of the Council of State to give such advice that imports should be avoided? Is it a precautionary principle that underlies it? Is there a threat to anything? Is that because of some professional advice? In relation to foot-and-mouth disease, it's okay – I think everyone agrees – but I get a little stunned when you use it in one argument and say that here there are no professional reasons to ban imports, but at the same time recommend very strongly to avoid it. It must be on some basis this strong recommendation is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e827	There were a lot of questions here, and it's impossible, I think, to answer everybody, but I'm going to take the last one to say that I'm not going to give up those issues. When the Veterinary Institute comes up with its risk assessment, they say, among other things. that by importing live bovine animals from countries with a worse BSE strategy than us, there is an increased risk of importing BSE infected animals. In order to compensate for the increased risk, we need to apply risk mitigation measures such as: testing, marking, SRM slaughter, etc., which I have explained many times. So we have increased risks that we compensate through risk mitigation measures. With the risk mitigation measures, it is assessed by the Veterinary Institute that the meat derived from the live animals is safe. However, it is clear that the risk-reimbursing measures are quite extensive. A large amount of resources is required, both of a practical organisational nature and in the form of costs, by following up. If, instead of taking on these kinds of costs, which we have to do in today's situation, we could rather have introduced semen and embryos and thus developed reproductive material, one would get the same situation. So we'd have a safe meat, and we could have developed the crop, but we hadn't gotten the increased costs and organisational challenges that the risk-mitigation measures pose. That's a good reason, which I'd like to present to the industry. But the fact that we have that kind of costs, and the fact that we have that kind of organisational challenges, is not an argument for imposing import bans. It will not be considered as a technical justification for an import ban, but there are alternatives that we should like to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e838	The view of the Council of State as regards the need for temporary import bans for bovine animals and meat products is known. This is justified by BSE, or jealousy. Unfortunately, the situation has now arisen that we have also had a high risk of foot-and-mouth disease, and it is a major risk to consumers and Norwegian agriculture as well. I said in my post that the Left's position on this matter had been taken from professional advice, on the basis of the precautionary principle and a total political discretion. In the nation there are two professors – at least a professor and a specialist – who say that the boundaries should have been closed a long time ago. It is veterinary professor Eystein Schirve and veterinary specialist Ivar Hellesnes. It is also claimed that it is because of high customs barriers that we have not received BSE infection into the country. In matters that we deal with in the Storting, it may seem that parties that are for the EU have been able to say yes to what comes from the EU, and vice versa, that parties that are against the EU have been able to say no – possibly. I assume that the Council of State has now based the technical advice and at the same time assesses the precautionary principle and also makes some political judgement. Is it, then, that political judgement from an EU-positive point of view has led to the fact that the most important thing here is that Norway should again be the best boy in the class, in the outside class?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e849	The two professors to which the representative of Kongshaug refers, we have met in Stortinget on several occasions. I remember that at least we had Eystein Schirve as a participant in the panel at the hearing on the extension of the EEA Agreement to veterinary matters, i.e. Annex I to the EEA Agreement. At the time, there was a great battle for border control, and I then, who now very much appreciated the fact that the Left fully agreed with the Labour Party that it was fully possible to take care of Norwegian animal and public health with the annex to the EEA Agreement that we then adopted. There Kongshaug and I have carried out exactly the same policy in terms of adding up to what kind of systems we are going to have for import control, border protection, etc. in the relationship between Norway and Europe. I can therefore not see that there has been any contradiction between the Workers' Party and the Left in this matter. That there were these in the government, and that the central party the time that now meant something else, I am aware of. But the Left and Christian People's Party are the two parties that, together with the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, have made sure that we have the legislation we have, with the criteria we have for regulating the issue of import bans, etc. in our relationship with the European Union, with clear rules and legislation that need to be followed. And it is precisely in this veterinary agreement, which the Left and Christian People's Party presented to the Grand Duchy, and which we are now following up, that we have the security clause with a clear set of rules on how it can be used and not used.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e859	Most things may not have been said in this case, but it is not certain that I am going to do something significant new. I still want to use the power to say some words. There is no doubt that the debate we have here today is of a serious nature, because it concerns food security and our confidence in food producers and in our authorities in general. That the representative Morten Lund thinks the biggest parties do not want a debate on the matter by relinquishing a line on his post, speaking for themselves. I would like to claim that there is nothing more on the consumer's side about food security than the Minister of Agriculture. He has communicated it to the Stortinget, and he has been primarily visible and clear in the media, so that Norwegian consumers are aware of what actions and assessments are being made. He thinks it's an honor. The current variant of BSE has recently been discovered, which is why there is also scientific uncertainty about spreading, risk, incubation time and much more. This uncertainty naturally gives room for varying degrees of fear and desire for action on the part of the population. Particular attention will be paid to actions and actions taken by the authorities, which the debate has clearly shown today. Of course, security has not been any less because we have had an outbreak of the highly contagious foot-and-mouth disease in the United Kingdom, and that it may have spread to other continents. It's the overall situation that makes it unsafe for consumers. But fortunately, it is a serious matter that the Minister of Agriculture estimates from hour to hour. The Labour Party and the Government take the risk, insecurity and fear with the utmost seriousness. The seriousness of this situation requires that we both acquire the greatest possible knowledge of the subject and use the knowledge wisely. We must meet the challenge of ensuring the least possible risk to animal and public health while spreading the least possible fear and insecurity. Here we actually have a common responsibility. Norwegian authorities have put in place safe and effective measures to prevent the entry of the cow population into Norway. The most stringent measures have been taken in the case of imports of live bovine animals coming from countries with a higher BSE risk than Norway. And the fact that there is a total ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for food-producing animals should also be included. As you know, every animal is controlled from the time it comes to the country and until it dies. In addition, each animal is tested after slaughter and all risk material is removed. It is important for us to bring forward and underline, so that consumers can feel safe. It is also important to note that this is a disease that is primarily spread through feed and that it does not infect from one animal to another. The strong focus on import bans can therefore have the effect of shifting focus away from what is important, simply animal health and thus public health in general in Norway, and on something more similar to political symbolism. For or against import bans are made one for or against people's health. It's too simple. During the debate, one has tried to minimize the nature of Norway’s commitments under the EEA Agreement. I would strongly warn against that. We have had several issues for treatment in Stortinget lately that show how dependent Norway as a net exporter of food is that we have scientifically based decisions, and that it is not inconclusive that governs what we should do and not do. We need a high international standard of food security, but I really want to warn against looking for advice and arguments to say no to the import of live animals, which we have heard here today. It can immediately strike back hard on Norway. So we have a very high potential when it comes to raising fish, and we have to assume that sooner or later we can have different types of outbreaks. We must then be able to show that we have had balanced assessments in connection with our actions, and we must encourage others to have the same. There's food security that's the big point today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e880	Fear of jealousy is great among all. We're all consumers and we want safe food. Therefore, it was in place with the output of the Agricultural Councils in February, but much has happened since then. Because in line with everyone else, I'm a conscious user, and it's easy to throw myself at the point of view of the proposers of Document No. 8:42 in 2000-2001, I have sent a copy of the Council of State to four different district veterinarians. The feedback was very positive. Yes, I'll get a quote from one of them: ‘This is a government council that takes the challenges seriously and is willing to put in place the measures needed when needed. Such politicians have our confidence!' However, I am surprised that there will not be a rapid test of all slaughter in a week or a month to establish our good animal health, free from BSE. Today only imported animals for slaughter, slaughter and self-dead animals are being tested. Cattle are mostly animals that have demanded or broken a foot, and that, in line with self-dead animals, naturally are not being traded as folk food. Europe screams for safe food, and if we could prove that our meat was controlled and pure, Norwegian farmers would have a unique chance. We have a decentralised small-scale agriculture. We have opportunities to offer a lot of organic meat to a market that is willing to pay. Germans, e.g. Don't yell at cheap Swedish meat and meat dough as we do, they want safe food and are willing to pay for it. Full testing can be a good measure that agricultural cooperation can take in pure self-interest. This could create optimism among the agricultural actors, and they need it after the agreement prices in the agricultural sector have been substantially reduced, while the price to the consumer has gone into the world. It creates frustration and disgust, and many give up. The peasants always come back with a reply, but there is also a review of price developments by the Council of State. The buildings miss those who care for the cultural landscape. I'm worried about what's going on in my own home district. It accelerates with the hall of egg-doms; it becomes black stew-glasses with light only in Easter. I don't like it. The encroachment of living settlements has a different character. I find reason to say that I am not here as an actor in the industry and speak of self-interest. I only have one cat, but I live in the village. We have to take this seriously, and the Labour Party does. Today, BSE/cube is on the agenda. Norway has had outbreaks of scrapie in sheep from time to time. It's a kind of cowhood light. So we've had the variety, but we're taking it seriously every time. The question of one's return, is: How clean is our animal health now? Only testing of all slaughter can give answers. I have recorded on a weekend that the Council of State has had a crisis meeting, and that he will immediately initiate the necessary measures. What I still wonder is that some farmers import live animals even if they then take chances, and at the same time shout at import bans. And then they can renew their animal races with semen and embryos that are so far unsuspected of being infectious. The other thing that surprises me is that the farmers take the chance of their own organizations and salads and mix in disinfected components. It is not then possible for professionals to take samples themselves; it must be based on trust. The risk behind the mirror should, as I can see, be financial penalties. The reporting process follows closely. That's what the state councils have told us in the distribution and confirmed today. The first measure was as early in life as in 1990. The ban on the incorporation of meat-and-bone meal into ruminants was a leading precaution, but we have also had illegal cases. Nevertheless, Norway, like England in its profit hunt, has not taken such chances as we there have been exposed, fortunately. Norway has a well-documented animal health system, and it can give us improbable possibilities of taking the right measures, both in relation to BSE and in relation to foot-and-mouth disease. It's like a plague and reminds me the most of the claws' black death. It's really creepy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e907	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e910	This debate has elements of a wide range of problem options, not least because problems in most EU countries in the field of agriculture are growing from day to day. European agriculture is in crisis. Norway has avoided this, for example: because we have traditionally invested in small-scale farming and strict restrictions on trade in agricultural products. I believe many people both outside and in this Chamber today should be happy that we, as countries, are not fully integrated into the EU's agricultural policy. It has saved us too many problems. Although for several years there have been strong forces for us in this country too to pursue a policy of economies of scale and free trade, we have so far managed to prevent strong developments in this direction. In essence, we can say that the relatively limited problems we have had in Norway so far in this area in relation to many EU countries are, in spite of the agricultural policy, the three parties that make up the majority in this matter are leading, and not because of this policy. There will be no ban on the importation of live bovine animals and products of bovine animals from countries that have demonstrated that they have been infected with the most effective free trade and industrialisation of agriculture. It may well have been expected, but I still have to say that it is alarming that we need to have a debate in this Chamber in 2001 on whether to take action to protect people's health or not. What characterizes the disease in particular is the lack of knowledge. When British researchers at the end of the 1980s noted that the disease could also attack humans, they were almost ridiculed by the British government. Professor Jan Mæhlen of Ullevål Hospital stated to NTB on 17 January this year: ‘The uncertainty area is large. We don't know if you have to eat one kilogram of infected brain tissue from a sick animal or if it's enough with a quantity that's one million times less, that's a thousandth of a gram. It's that uncertain." At the same time, we know that, at a time, some of the beef is being imported from countries that have shown cow disease. On 1 March of this year, the newspaper VG states that whole and half carcases of bovine animals are imported into Norway from countries that have demonstrated cow disease, such as Norway. Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. A lot of other meat is also imported. French authorities now suspect that sheep too can develop a mental state. There is now a debate in France on the introduction of new and stricter restrictions on the sale of sheep products, and EU scientists have reported that in laboratory trials BSE can also infect sheep and goats. Gong has repeatedly shown that public authorities in several EU countries have not taken this disease seriously enough, and it has also been shown that they have had to admit that they have made mistakes. I have to say, unfortunately, that a majority in Stortinget wants to be on a public stand in Norway that is not characterized by a leading var-holding, but by a waiting and seeing-holding. The experts' warnings are numerous, and a study carried out by Your Opinion/Norwegian Statistics shows that 60 pst. of the population wants a ban on imports. The stuttering number clearly means something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e926	Rarely have there been such clear reasons to close Norwegian borders on imports of animals and animal products as they are now. Nevertheless, the Council of State is hesitating. Tragic disease/epedemia has affected agriculture, mainly in the United Kingdom, but the risk of further spread is absolutely real. Special foot-and-mouth disease is extremely contagious, and there should be provision for comprehensive measures to prevent spreading to Norway. I, myself, come from South Rogaland, the densest animal husbandry area in Europe, and none of us dare to think about the consequences of infection spreading to our area. The importance of both agriculture and consumers should lead to a stoppage of imports. That is why I also hope that the Council of State will reach this conclusion as soon as possible. In this case a lead should be given because the consequences of missing initiatives can become so dramatic. The outbreaks of these animal diseases in Europe also raise long-term problems. Several countries now report a strong change in their national agricultural policy. This is, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, joyous and right. We hope that the efficiency pressure and the price pressure will be dampened, and that the care of safe food and good animal health will also be the most important thing. Norway currently has a high and preferred animal health status. It's important to keep this state. This should be done in trusting cooperation between agricultural authorities and agriculture. Ecological, animal health and environmental considerations should be added to the development of Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, Norwegian agriculture, which has a very high standard, should be protected as necessary in order to preserve its quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e936	The Council of State indicated in the reply to the representative of Kongshaug that the legislation with which he practises has been adopted by at least two of the votes of the intermediate parties in the context of the extension of the EEA Agreement. That's a correct statement, and I'm not going to try to deny it. But what was then very clear and strongly underlined, including by the Left, was precisely that the safeguard clause in the agreement was an important reason for entering into the agreement. And I guess we'll see in the name of honesty that it's kind of the scope and the extent to which it can be applied in the present situation, which is actually what we're discussing today. As such, it is within the framework of the legislation under discussion. What I wanted to talk about was this with the relationship to professional advice and the significance of these. It's partly a general question, but of course today it's a very specific question in relation to the things we're dealing with here. It is clear that, in many contexts, there is every reason to put emphasis — and emphasis — on professional advice. But I think that perhaps both the representative Morten Lund and the Council of State have gone a little too far in common by saying that the professional advice is crucial, and that there can't be any political judgement as well. I think the representative Lund in his speech went very far in highlighting the Animal Health Authority and their position and in a way expressing that this should have been the final position. I think we should recognize that this is also a clear element of political judgement that comes in the extension of professional judgement. In this way, I have to say that when the Council of State is speaking here in the pulpit, I feel that he may be hiding a little – to use that expression – behind professional advice and judgements, without being open and acknowledging that there is also an element of a political judgement in this which he actually has to acknowledge. It is clear that, as the Council of State, he becomes extra responsible for the political assessments of the extension of professional judgement. I think it is a point that today in the EU, questions are asked about its own agricultural policy and questions whether what is now happening should form the basis for changing it. It makes us want to put a little bit bigger question mark on the professional advice than we might otherwise have done, and give ourselves a pause of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e945	I think it is very easy for the Minister of Agriculture to pretend that nothing has happened since the Bondevik government put this in charge. It's happened a lot in the last year. The cowhood has shown a greater spread than we feared, and in the year that has passed, thousands of animals have been killed and cremated. In the last few weeks, the terrible foot-and-mouth disease has had an outbreak and changed the situation dramatically. To say that the Bondevik administration didn't do anything either, I think that I'm both inconsequential and unprofessional by the Minister of Agriculture. There is a completely different situation today. I am a little disappointed today, because I had actually expected the minister to be able to settle down ashore and implement this measure that I believe is clearly right, primarily to prevent the import of live animals. I thought the minister had had enough professional reasons to introduce this ban on imports, because it is the most common route of infection, the most obvious, also in relation to foot-and-mouth disease. And many professional bodies think this is an obvious professional assessment based on the precautionary principle. One might ask: what kind of professional arguments does the minister now lack? This is a temporary ban, as the EU nations are also talking about. All nations understand why other nations do this, but we also understand why the European Commission says what they say. They have a different responsibility. The Minister has professional advice that can give him arguments for a different assessment. I think it's important to establish that. The pre-goods principle is also a professional argument that the minister must use as a Norwegian argument against the EU. The fact that the EU system does not have a tradition of using the precautionary principle as a professional argument is a factor in the matter. But the EU nations do! And consumers in EU nations require it. So we still need to be at risk of introducing BSE via live animals, and also foot-and-mouth disease. And I want to address the Minister: Control does not reduce the risk of import, but it increases the chance that we will detect the infection once we have got it to the country. I would also like to point out a real problem: if we detect BSE in an imported animal in Norway, are we going to rehabilitate the entire herd, or are we going to assume that the animal has carried the BSE infection to the country? Or can we be sure that this infection has not come through the feed, and that we must thus clean up the entire crew? I believe that by not imposing a ban until we know more about this, we expose Norwegian farmers and livestock to increased risk. I think it's okay to argue on the basis of trade policy, but you should stop hiding behind the professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e958	The debate today has highlighted that BSE and foot-and-mouth disease are two different things and two different issues to deal with. But anyway, the overall picture we're facing is: what should food security mean in a world where food has been so strongly influenced by a free trade stint? And what should food security mean in a world where food production is so widely viewed as any other industry? The Minister of Agriculture, in his speech today, and in the exchange of replies, took a hard look at the professional recommendations he chooses to focus on. But I think it's a somewhat remarkable interpretation of the Animal Health Authority's letter of 18 January, because it's obvious that the one sentence that can be interpreted in favour of the majority is a professional recommendation, while the rest of what's in the letter is not a professional recommendation. It seems to me that this is a rather strange interpretation, because the whole letter is mainly permeated by the fact that the Animal Health Authority points to the great uncertainty that they believe is the basis for a ban on imports, and also to the need for preventive measures in the situation in which we are, and they also have good professional qualifications for that. After this debate, one must be able to ask: Is it always rational to wait and see? And when, in relation to a disease such as bullying, an instrument cannot be used as an import ban, it has to be stated that the majority of Stortinge today rejects the use of import bans as a preventative agent at all. It is only when it is about crisis management that it can come in as an instrument. This is contrary to what the Animal Health Authority has so clearly said, and I think it is also contrary to what many of the consumers think and want in relation to Norwegian food safety. I miss a discussion of the more general conditions on the part of the Workers' Party. I miss a more serious debate on a leading attitude to the acute situation we are in, but also in relation to possible future disease images. I miss an overall debate on where the boundaries go in terms of food security and the relationship to free trade and to industrial agriculture – in line with the intentions of EU legislation. If one seriously believes, as the Minister of Agriculture said here today, that it is not possible to be accurate, if one seriously believes that, in relation to some of these diseases, one cannot have a full overview of the infectious situations, why should one not then try to protect the source itself, as far as one knows the source of the diseases that have arisen? In this way, an import ban would be the right instrument. I think we should take this debate seriously. And as for the representative Karlstrøm's question about what is now missing from professional advice: What is missing now is a crisis – then perhaps the ban will also come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e971	It is not difficult to look at the faces of the majority representatives in this Chamber today that one is disgusted with the situation that has arisen. We have a dramatic state in Europe. EU agricultural policy is under strong pressure and state governments have had to leave their posts because of the situation in individual countries. In a situation like the one we are now seeing, where agricultural policy is collapsing in countries by country, and where we see animal fires burning in many European countries, therefore, the majority does not dare to base the principle of fear of countermeasures from the EU! I believe that sensible people in the EU today are asking themselves: how is it possible for Norway, which has so far avoided outbreaks of infection, to take the most stringent measures to protect itself? We lack professional advice, says the Minister of Agriculture. It is possible that the Minister of Agriculture lacks professional advice which he believes the EU will accept, but the Minister of Agriculture does not in any way lack professional advice from Norwegian professional authorities. In a letter dated 27 November last year, the State Animal Health Authority states that: «The animal health surveillance of the Member States would advise against the importation of live bovine animals or feed containing meat-and-bone meal.»It further states in the same letter:»The Ministry of Agriculture has stated that the EEA Agreement does not allow Norwegian authorities to prohibit such imports.» So there are completely different reasons than professional advice. Much clearer professional advice than that given to the Minister of Agriculture is not possible. The Animal Health Authority further states in a letter dated 18 January this year: ‘We have a great deal of understanding and respect for the difficult political balances the Department must make, and will, to the best of our ability, make and communicate our assessments from an administrative professional point of view based on the best expert judgements available at all times.’ Therefore, the Animal Health Authority, which advises professionals, considers that the import of live animals or feed containing meat-and-bone meal should be prohibited. Moreover, the Minister of Agriculture, as late as January, had no reason to prohibit imports of feed. Thus, animal health surveillance is of the opinion that there is a political decision on the basis of which no import bans are to be adopted, not a technical justification. The professional justification has been provided by the Animal Health Authority. I refuse to believe that the Animal Health Authority has expressed itself on anything but a professional basis – I see the Minister of Agriculture shaking his head – when, in a letter dated 27 November, the following is said: «The animal health surveillance of the Member States will discourage the importation of live bovine animals or feed containing meat-and-bone meal.» Given that the Minister of Agriculture responds as he does, my question to him must be: Does the Minister of Agriculture trust the professional assessments of the Animal Health Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1004	Most of it may have been said in this case, as the arguments have come from here. But I also want to remember what the State Animal Health Authority says in its letter of 27 November 2000, and also the fact that they sent an enquiry to the Ministry of Agriculture several months before that, as they warned in a letter of 26 May 2000 against the import of live cattle and feed, because it represented a major risk of the introduction of bovine infection into Norway. It is a health policy aspect of this which I see as the Minister of Agriculture and the Government taking little note of. It is pointed out that we have good control procedures, and that along with the things that may now be put into action, it is good enough. Then I would like to remind the Minister of Agriculture that last spring I raised a question with the Minister of Finance about a great misunderstanding when it came to imports of meat from Denmark. From Norwegian statistics it was found that in 1999 we imported 15 tonnes of beef from Denmark, while the Danish meat industry pointed out that during the same period the export to Norway had been 55,8 tonnes of beef. The finance minister gave me no good answer to my question about control procedures and how this could be. It was shown that there was meat that was included by individuals, but it's not inside these numbers here. It was also shown that it was meat that was used on Norwegian installations in the North Sea and in our merchant fleet. But it's not that much of a misunderstanding in this area. My question is then: are the control procedures we have had, and do we have today, good enough to say that the control we are now carrying out is safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1015	The time for the morning meeting is immediately over. The President will propose – under the clear mandate that the debate not take place – that we extend the morning meeting until this matter is resolved. We have one more on the list of speakers, simply State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1018	There were many things I would like to comment on, but after this recommendation from the President, I shall limit my comment to what the representative of Enoxsen was concerned about, namely the question of my confidence in the Animal Health Authority. Of course, it is important for me to stress that I have confidence in the Animal Health Authority, and therefore I have also read very carefully what advice the Animal Health Authority gives me. I have never concealed that the Animal Health Authority recommended an import ban. That is also stated in the statement, and I have said that I take note of it. But then I've had to go into what's the reason for the recommendation. Is the animal health surveillance justification for the recommendation that imports represent a threat to animal or public health? That is the professional reason I have to use to defend, if necessary, an import ban. I must then note that the Animal Health Authority recommends an import ban, but not on the grounds that imports are a threat to animal or public health, because, as one says: ‘An animal originating from a country with a higher risk of cullitis than Norway hardly represents any strain on the feed and food chain after current knowledge.’ Thus, it is not a contagious disease that penalises the feed and food chain. Further: ‘It is our opinion that the specific checks carried out on imported animals at the time of slaughter result in meat from these animals having the same quality as meat from Norwegian animals in the case of cullitis.’ In other words, there is no threat to animal and public health, and that's what matters to me. So I'm based on the recordings, and I'm taking note that you want an import ban. But I also take note and emphasize that they also clearly state that there is no threat to animal and public health. And there is a threat to animal and public health that is the basis for promoting an import ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1033	I'll be brief. I would like to have the comment of the Council of State on one sentence in the letter of the State Animal Health Authority of 27 November. It says the following: «The animal health surveillance of the Member States will request the addressees of this letter to contribute to informing livestock producers and others of the animal and public health risks associated with such imports.» Can the councils comment on one sentence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1043	It is quite strong when, in several of its articles, the Council of State clearly only points out the one sentence, and when he now expresses it in the last article, as one must understand, that just enough, the State Animal Health Authority has said that they want an import ban, but not because of public health, not because of animal health – not for any of those reasons. Yeah, but is it just for fun that they suggested it? Why, they have suggested it! Furthermore, I must also be allowed to say that it does not encourage conciliation with the Labour Party when one hears how the veterinary extension is treated by the Minister for Agriculture. When one adopts an extension of the EEA Agreement with veterinary conditions, and the Minister of Agriculture is actually saying that, according to it, there is only one conclusion that can be used, then there is something that we note. In my view, there is a political judgement to be based on, and from that one may come to two conclusions. I would understand that, but as the Minister of Agriculture has expressed himself today, it sounds as if one can only come to a conclusion based on what the majority in Stortinget said at the time. So finally -- I know it's late now, but it's an important thing: there's one thing everyone's a few about in the committee. The Minister for Agriculture has not commented. So I'm going to close positive. It is easy for the entire committee to say that one would also like a labelling scheme for unpacked meat, for example. what goes to restaurants. It wants a quick system for, so that one can get rid of the crime that is currently going on there. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture has noticed that the committee is unanimous – it looks like the only thing that has been agreed on today – and that he can say that yes, we shall, and we shall do so quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1056	As I said either in a line or in my main post earlier today, the professional summary coming from the different professional communities in Norway is based on the following: importing live cattle leads to an increased risk of getting BSE infection into the country. In the absence of a threat to animal and public health, risk mitigation measures must be applied, which in turn result in a significant number of associated procedures and control systems, which are demanding, challenging and costly. An import ban would, of course, have made sure that we did not have these associated routines and that we did not have these control systems. And many would say that it was a great advantage. I also want to say that if we could not have all of these associated routines and all of these control systems, there are many reasons that argue that it would have been an advantage for us, but that is not a professional basis for adopting an import ban. If we are to adopt an import ban, we must be able to link it to animal health and public health, and then I have repeatedly referred to what the Animal Health Authority says in the last letter to me of 18 January on public and animal health. I believe that what is very clear is that there is no threat to animal health, because it is not a contagious disease, and that it is believed that public health is not threatened, because the measures taken in connection with slaughter ensure that the meat is safe, which is what Folkehelsa believes. It is then possible to ask that question as many times as you like, but it is my assessment, within the discretionary room contained in the veterinary agreement, that discretion is clearly moving towards the fact that it is not a threat to animal and public health, and that we should then act with cleanliness and not justify it based on conditions other than the threat to animal and public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1063	Odd Roger Enoksen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1067	The Council of State has now made it clear that there is no lack of professional judgement that would lead him to say no to an import ban, but that there is a discretionary assessment of the situation that suggests that he will continue to allow imports from countries that have demonstrated cow disease. In the letter of 27 November, from which the Council of State consistently fails to refer, and from which I have just read one sentence, the State Animal Health Authority goes on to say: ‘We do not currently have any professional basis for recommending the introduction of semen or embryos.’ I.e. implicitly: there is a technical justification for not recommending the importation of live animals or of feed containing meat-and-bone meal. These are the professional grounds used by the Animal Health Authority. The council said two articles ago that he had no professional justification on the part of the Animal Health Authority. I take note that the Council of State now says that he has used a discretionary assessment and does not want to say no to the import of live animals. It's something other than a professional justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1079	The representative, Mr. Enoksen, said in an earlier speech that he had looked at the facial expressions of the plural in this case that they did not like this debate. I can assure the representative of Enoxsen that we feel on a particularly safe basis in this matter, and I am surprised that the Central Party, and in part the Christian People's Party, does not accept what the Council of State has now repeated in up to several articles. Both the representative, Mr Enoksen and the representative, Mr Lilletun, have our state councils and know the emphasis to be placed on the different contents of a professional recommendation from a subordinate body. It surprises me that a well to pick out pieces and not look at the totality, as the council has now done repeatedly. The representative, Enoxene, is now trying to make this one and only as an understanding. No, there is an overall assessment based on the report of the Veterinary Institute, which concludes that with the measures in place there is no risk of animal health and public health. I can't believe it wouldn't be easy to understand. But it's a good thing that you don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1086	I'm sorry to have to take the word again, but when Enoxen now puts it out so that I have not at all based myself on professional advice, but only on understanding, it is at best an attempt to deceive in relation to what I have said. Because I have said that I have given crucial attention to the professional advice of the Veterinary Institute, which is the professional body of competence that the State has for carrying out risk assessments, I have gone through thoroughly what the Animal Health Authority has said to me, and I have carefully gone through what they say about the threat to animal and public health. I feel that the technical advice given to the Ministry of Agriculture in this matter clearly tells me that importing live bovine animals with the risk-mitigation measures we have does not represent a threat to animal and public health. Then I have also said that as long as the professional advice so requires, there are no discretionary judgements that are strong enough to overcome the professional advice. That is why there has been no proposal from my side that is moving towards a ban on imports. The professional advice is unique in relation to the threat to public and animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1093	To clarify a little at the end: I feel that we have now received the Council of State's statement that the professional bodies say that imports are more risky than self-production. However, instead of listening to the assessments made by the Animal Health Authority, the Minister of Agriculture chooses to base his own judgement — the totality, as the representative Opseth pointed out. This means that the totality indicates that the Workers' Party is not willing to emphasise the precautionary principle and that the Workers' Party is not willing to emphasise the uncertainty that has been repeatedly highlighted by the Animal Health Authority. I said in my last three-minute post that it would probably be a change if there was a crisis. I would rather say: it will be a ban when we get another crisis in addition to the one we already have – about which it must be crisis-oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1098	Jon Lilletun has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1101	First, I want to repeat to the representative Opseth that on behalf of the Christian People's Party I have always said that it is possible from an overall assessment to come to two conclusions. But the whole day has been agreed on by the Labour Party, and especially by the Council of State, is to try to find that it is only possible to arrive at a conclusion and to make the advice that has come, unambiguously. So I think to the extent that it has our one-sidedness in this debate, it is precisely today that the Labour Party has been in charge of it. I'll try to be positive one more time, even if the council doesn't want to answer what's positive. But it's in the setting: ‘The Committee considers that labelling with the country of origin of meat offered in restaurants would be a major challenge for the control and surveillance systems. To a greater extent than the retail trade, where we have a good tradition of factual information, consumer information... is based on trust." Then comes the conclusion: [[The President clubs]] ‘The Committee asks the Ministry, in cooperation with the café and restaurant industries, to identify good and practical arrangements.’ Will the minister do it, and will he do it quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1120	One minute is one minute, also for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05.ana.ud661e1128	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. One, two, three. The President will now cancel this morning's meeting. [[See page 2239]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
