ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e147	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers’ Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative for Ms Bæivi from 13 June to 15 June from the representatives of Mr Liv Marit Moland and Mr Shabhaz Tariq on leave on 14 and 15 June to take part in the Norwegian delegation to the Second Conference on Women and Democracy in Vilnius On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the Aust-Agder County: May Britt LundeFor the Finnmark County: Inger Lise BalandinFor Oslo: Kai Ekanger3. Inger Lise Balandin and May Britt Lunde are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet the representatives of Mimmi Beivi and Liv Marit Moland
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e187	It's a pleasure to welcome Crown Prince Haakon Magnus to the Stortinget. Today and tomorrow, the Crown Prince will conduct a study visit to Stortinget as part of the education programme he is now in. We are very pleased that your Royal Highness shows such an interest in the work in Stortinget. We have taken advantage of this in return by adding up to a comprehensive and strenuous programme. We wish the Crown Prince good luck, and hope the stay in Stortinget will be interesting and useful. Welcome! At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e223	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 80 minutes, Christian People's Party 30 minutes, Right and Advance Party 25 minutes each, Center Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Left 10 minutes each and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e234	Through a series of big and small reforms, we have gradually expanded our education system. The education sector has developed at express rates in recent years. In 1956, education beyond seven years in the public sphere was a privilege for the few. Today, about half of Norwegian youth take some form of higher education. Freedom and equal opportunities prevent uniformity and stagnation. Access to knowledge and the possibility of education is a prerequisite for the individual’s freedom. Fair distribution and equal opportunities mean that everyone is given the opportunity to participate, and we are all using forces. Equal opportunities for education are a prerequisite for a fair and good society. Enno is saddened by the fact that individual groups in society have lower education than the average. This is a task that we have to take seriously, in order to smooth out social differences. Our task is not only to develop qualified students, but also to help them become active, committed and responsible citizens. There is an extensive cross-border exchange of knowledge. This is where we have to be. International exchanges and development and competences are important when it comes to the quality of our education system. The growth in the number of students in the last decade has resulted in a variety of student masses. The challenge now is to facilitate this lack, so that as many as possible get a good implementation of their studies. Therefore, there is a need for change and renewal of the sector and, in fact, there is a need for major changes in education and training. Fortunately, this is a cross-political deal. The Storing message and the setting are a response to how we can improve the quality of research and higher education. This is a quality reform that has been asked for a long time. Therefore, it is with wonder that I have followed the debate in the media – in the beginning it was the embodiment of older professors who were opponents of each change, without discussing the content. Fortunately, the debate has been more nuanced. In fact, the study organisations have contributed to this. They feel that the education system needs change, and the students are the ones for which the reform is most effective. I want to pay tribute to the student organisations for all the recordings they have made, which have been particularly constructive. Today’s degree structure is not adapted to international developments, nor is it lifelong learning or working life’s needs. Low penetration in education has economic costs, both for society and for the individual. Newly lower levels of three years plus higher levels of two years and better use of the academic year will make the students get faster through their education. This means lower costs for the individual as well as for society, which may benefit the student's competence a year earlier. This change is largely associated with it. The institutions themselves decide how the contents of the study should be preserved and how the study year can be used optimally. If the institution itself considers this to be a priority, they may also benefit from a three-semester scheme. Should all this be closed – that is the intention – the relationship between the student and the institution must be strengthened. Agreements between the parties are therefore important. Evaluation, feedback, first information when a start is made, and in-depth assessments and in-depth follow-up are essential. The number material that we have on the weighted weights shows us that the iron percentage is too high. A study, e.g. from the University of Bergen – there are also others who have done this – it appears that closer follow-up of first semester students has led to that 95 pst. has completed the examination. This means that things can be done better in another way. Then, of course, teaching is very central, and quality is the key word. In the case of teaching, it shall involve and engage. Here you can see both project and field work and problem-based learning. It's important relationships. In the case of the examination, the final evaluation, it is important to report back in the course of the test. It's actually one of the most important things. Many have expressed fear of not joining the swings when things are going to get faster. I think that's an exaggeration. It is precisely all the measures that strengthen the relationship between students and institutions to prevent this. I would also like to stress that for this follow-up work, of course, more resources are needed, both human and economic. The reform means several cents per cent. student. On the part of the Labour Party, it has always been a commitment to the implementation of the reform that study funding should be increased. The lift in the scholarship part is actually the great lift of the times: NOK 1.3 billion. The opportunity to be a full-time student is once again set at NOK 1000 a month. Today, a student is paid NOK 67 550 per day. year of study in support. Of these 20 are NOK 200 scholarships. The rest are loans. The scholarship part is 30 pst., and all of this is paid out at startup. No increase in payments at the start of the semester to NOK 80,000 with the new scheme, an increase in relation to today of NOK 12 000, and then 39 pst. converted into a grant as the study is completed. This is a holistic reform. The length of the study combined with new forms of teaching, evaluation, agreement and end of the old-fashioned final exams led to increased scholarships making this a thoughtful reform. I'm very pleased that we are getting in touch with this whole-hearted reform. Institutions must also change their organisation. Our universities and universities work in different regions in different parts of the country, with different needs for employment in the region. This should be found in the supply, and we do. Our universities and universities have been good at this, but they also need greater freedom to be able to follow in development and conversion. Although institutions need freedom, social governance is important throughout our education sector, so that we have a context in what we want with education, that we have it spread throughout the country, and that we care for both the regions and the labour market for their needs for education, as well as for research. That's why I'm very happy that there's going to be multiples to have management companies with extended powers when it comes to our institutions. This allows a region to meet its needs and meet the small subjects, which are not so lucrative in economic terms, but which are needed for its well-being. The size has given "extended powers" more content than the size of the message, and is collected to deepen how the university's peripheral zone can be organised. This is what we are going to do when the laws are to be changed in relation to the decisions that are being made today. Today we have chosen the principal, which works well, and which should continue. But there's a multiple, from the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, that opens up an attempt to add it here as well. However, it is at the intermediary level that there is a need for change, and I am happy that it is being done today. The Workers' Party and the Centre with subsidiary support from the Progress Party will ensure that the laws are amended so that institutional leaders are appointed, not elected, as they are today. We are still a small country, and the more important it is to bet on few but competent basic research environment. The debate on institutional education reflects today’s situation, where higher education and research face new challenges. Several academic environments at several universities are developing in such a way that they meet the academic criteria of higher education. A clear division of labour and a concentration of the professional environment strengthen the Norwegian education system. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the requirement for a doctorate to become qualified as a university would prevent a greater spread of the professional resources between the institutions. In this context, the use of university education itself is less important than the objective of getting a more varied education system with more concentrated research efforts at a high international level. Creation of doctoral training is very resource-required. It is strange, therefore, that the majority want to use resources in such a way as to ensure that the higher education institutions in question spend many years and resources to obtain the three additional doctoral degrees they need to seek to call themselves universities, especially in view of the fact that the higher education institutions are central players in regional innovation and support the development of business and public enterprise. It's sad that the Labour Party doesn't get multiple numbers because Stavanger, Bodø and Agder fill the terms that we've seen as a criterion, and could call themselves universities if they applied for it. In addition, a look at a possible inland university should be taken. This is only the Labour Party that wants. The majority in Stortinget will base the criteria that the Mjøs selection drew up in NOU 2000:14, albeit broader activity and four doctoral degrees if one is to apply for a university. I don't think there are so many higher education institutions that are going to be able to meet those criteria in the super-secret future. The institutions shall be subject to mass and quality training. In this context, the freedom of institutions will be important to ensure good adaptability. Through the reform that the Storing Message provides and which the setting currently follows, a significantly larger authority and decision-making authority is transferred to the institutions themselves – and I have been involved in this with the Edge Zone business. But this has seen greater demands on internal governance and governance. Therefore, it is very gratifying that there are also multiples to increase the number of external board members. This can bring good ideas and competences to the institutions, which will be of great value. Research has a very central role and relevance for education and for access to new knowledge and competences. Size discussed last year's research message, so there's no basis for resuming this here. I just want to point out that it needs to be followed up with both a stepping-up plan and money. The research fund is established, and money has come to the fund, but it has to be followed up. More money per person Student means this reform, and implementation requires increased efforts by the public in the form of increased promises every year. Such a major reform must take some time before it can be introduced and implemented. Therefore, one has said that during 2002, most should be in place, but the phase-in period should be in 2003. A lot of the institutions are willing to do it, so I think it's going to be very good. I would also like to say, once I have thanked the student organisations for their contributions, that the board of the University and Higher School Council has also been active participants in the entire debate and has made recordings and with different material to the committee in the work. It has been of invaluable help. It is quite clear that students, organisations and institutions must be involved if such a major reform is to be carried out. Finally, I refer to what the Workers' Party has presented in the setting. Because I'm the case spokesman for two other cases, I'll take it at the same time. It applies to Inner. S. No 334, on «Green University». It's a suggestion to move the Veterinary Sphere to Ås. The Committee has not in any way felt that they are competent enough or have sufficient knowledge to do this, so here we have been recorded both from the Veterinary School, from the Veterinary Institute and from the Department of the Veterinary School in Sandnes, who wants to be involved in this work. That's why a co-consultant's committee is asking for a solution to all of this so that we can come back to it and deal with it in a satisfactory way, so that we can take the necessary decisions. The third matter for which I speak applies to proposals from representatives Karin Andersen, Rolf Reikvam and Ursula Evje for the necessary measures to ensure that people with reading and writing difficulties have real opportunities for higher education. From the committee's side, we have chosen to mention it in the setting that prevails when it applies to St.meld. No So twenty-seven, that's twenty-seven. S. No 337, so this matter must be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e299	Ranveig Frøiland has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e304	Ranveig Frøiland said that this was a comprehensive reform, and the rapporteur has thus made a good contribution to the vote in order to achieve this. However, what was most offensive in the Government’s communication was the point of study funding — increased cost standard, 39 pst. scholarship share. It reminds me a little bit that the government would actually prioritize the students. They were to be won for the quality reform. At a closer look we saw the following: there was no guarantee that the institutions were given the resources to give students better follow-up, and the students were to receive scholarships when the exam was taken, and they followed the study progress. But the combination of little resources and scholarships depending on the exam puts all the financial risk on the student. In this way, the student is at risk of becoming a blackmailer in the game between institutions and departments. The Labour Party has chosen to join the Progress Party in order to get its study funding model through. Now it seems that the Workers' Party has been given cold feet in relation to its own proposal, because in the newspaper today we read: «Giske Spins». "Follow me an hour and get a scholarship!" said Dagbladet. What's in this? What is the Workers' Party's study funding policy?? Are they at the Government's arrangement regarding student finance and study finance model, scholarship model, or are there completely new rates that we are also seeing now? Is the Workers' Party trying to ride two men at once?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e313	Not to say two horses! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e316	I'm not built for horseback riding, but there's another thing! First of all, I would like to thank you for receiving the great reform. It's a thank you I can return to everyone, because this is not a women's show. It is not that the Storing Message contains guarantees when it relates to the economy. If we read the setting, we see that the center has put in a lot of tips, that they're going to think about coming back with money when the budget is being managed for next year. That's okay, of course. We will also – and not only have it in mind – be involved in increasing when the budget comes, but it is based on the budgetary proposals that the funds are to be allowed. That is why there is a reform which, of course, makes it clear that more resources are needed here. When it comes to student funding, I have a very good conscience on behalf of the Workers' Party – NOK 1.3 billion, raising the scholarship from 30 pst. to 39 pst. This also promised the Christian People's Party in the previous election campaign, but they were unable to do so when they were in government. But I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party is with the Labour Party now when we raise it. It's clear that I'm happy about it, because it's going to have to do a couple more to get it done. The Labour Party has clearly stated when it relates to our study funding model. We don't ride two horses, because we've said that this thing with the full-time student is very important, so we've increased by $1,000 a month, and one gets paid $80,000 immediately. So it's going to be converted into scholarship when you've graduated. But then we've said that if we can't get all of this in place, we'll look at a system where a percentage can be paid in advance, as is the case with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e325	Let me try out a little compromise proposal: maybe it's the right name. When the current government joined, it made a statement here in the Storting, where there was actually one major programme issue presented, namely the renewal of the public sector. Last week, the government got a pass on to the major hospital reform, which it argued very strongly and quite well for was a completely necessary reform in the process of self-restraint and release of the heavy hospital institutions. The same argument is not found in this case. More specifically, the opposite argument is found, namely that what is right in the health sector is completely wrong in higher education. Yes, the working party actually goes so far that in this setting you want to close the door altogether even for possible attempts with the model for which the government is in favour of with regard to the important health sector. I allowed myself in the debate with the Minister of Health last week to recall a scripture that says that a house that conflicts with itself cannot stay standing. It did not want the Minister of Health to comment. But perhaps the committee leader would like to comment on how it relates to the fact that what is a completely necessary reform operation in one sector is a completely reprehensible reform operation in another sector. And then I would like to ask again why the Labour Party of all parties has joined the Advance Party in creating a majority, on the one hand, for a study funding model according to the principle of whipping and punishment for those who are unable to hang with, instead of being premiered, and that also in the case of the arts scholarship, one has followed the same line. Students are not in the course of being supported, but they are the ones who succeed in completing and succeeding in establishing themselves as artists, who are to be rewarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e339	I am listening to the parole of the representative Inge Wohnung's pardon because he hasn't got multiples for what he's most busy at, easy to privatize our universities. In that area he would have taken plurals in the hall together with both the Progress Party and others, if there was a wish for it. There is a difference between the hospital reform and the major quality reform in higher education. But both of these reforms are a renewal of the sector. The morbidity reform should provide a level playing field across the country and be managed as closely as possible, so that patients can be confident that they will be offered the same everywhere they live in the country. When it comes to our universities and universities, which are large social institutions to take up local business and the local needs by opening up to more external members of the board, there is something quite different. It's not possible to compare for the Workers' Party, and it's actually saying the plurality in Stortinget as well. Then it's not that the Labour Party has joined forces with the Progress Party. We've put forward a proposal that the Progress Party has joined, and we get multiples for that. And I can repeat once again that there is a very good reform when it comes to increasing scholarships. I feel that in all areas, we have joined most of our reform. We are very pleased that the Right and Inge Wages have not been passed on for the students to get a check that they will take with them, and then see where they will end up and where they will study. Our proposal will give far greater freedom to the individual institution. What we mean is a social responsibility that we take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e352	This is an educational policy reform, but in terms of funding studies, it is also a social reform. The Workers' Party has chosen to join the Advance Party. And it should worry them that the Progress Party is not of those who have gone into the brink of good social reforms. But here they choose to ally with this party. The basis for this reform is a special human vision, and the human vision is that the more you whip, the better it works. The more you whip the students, the more they carry out the studies. I don't think that's right. The serious thing about this reform is what is going on in recruitment. We know a lot today about who's taking out loans in the State Loan Fund. We know today that there is misrepresentation in the recruitment of universities and colleges, and this is largely due to the study funding scheme. And there's reason to believe that the change in study funding will reinforce this bias. We know that children of academic parents, children of parents with good finances, are overrepresented in the Loan Fund. They dare and have the opportunity to take on study loans in a different way from that of the working class's children. There's reason to expect that this conversion, where you initially get everything paid out as a loan, and then this is going to be converted into scholarships as you carry out, will scare a lot of people away from the Loan Fund. And then the question of the Workers' Party is: Will this reform weaken the possibility of equal rights to education, and is it right for the Workers' Party to ally with the Progress Party in social reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e363	Equal rights to education are essential for the Workers' Party, and also for SV. But what in all the world is it that tells the representative Requam that children of the working class are worse off than others when it comes to having the study run? There are no numbers telling it. Rolf Rikvam says that the study funding today is so poor that it is a misguided recruitment. That's exactly what we're doing! We're increasing the education aid by $12,000. It has never been taken such a lift before. And there's nothing to tell you that the claim of Reikvam that students don't dare to borrow is correct. Now we have created a reform where one should have closer follow-up of students. Education is essential. The agreement between the institution and the student is essential. On-the-fly evaluation - there is no one who will finish when they are going to take the exam and who does not know where they stand. There should be a close follow-up all the time that is binding between the student and the institution. It's just to prevent the greater percentage of strokes that this reform is so thorough in the whole community. I have to repeat that children of the working class study just as much as children of the other social classes. We improve the scholarship, so that they can study all the time and don't have to take jobs aside, which too many students listen to do today. So they're going to get $80,000 per. year-on-year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e373	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e376	We live in a global knowledge economy where people's knowledge is the key to quality of life and well-being. It assumes that we have a quality education system where young people and adults have the opportunity to get the education they want and need to work in a modern society. In this knowledge economy, we have an international knowledge market with strong competition. In this reality, Norwegian universities and colleges will find their place. This was the background for Lilletun's then state council to shut down the Mjøs Committee to investigate the framework conditions for future higher education and on which today's attitude is based. When the Christian People's Party has been working on reforming higher education for a new millennium, we have given crucial importance to quality, freedom, equality and well-being. The attitude today ensures the quality, freedom and equivalency of the government, while the well-being of the students in the funding of the study jeopardizes the structure of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. In further study of the message, we asked ourselves, ‘ Is the message secure the necessary quality? ’ Did it give the university and college the freedom necessary to provide good study opportunities? Increased cost standards and scholarship share in the study funding were good, but was it the turbostudent we wanted? Were we presented here for a quality reform that was, in fact, an efficiency reform? The basics of higher education must be quality. We need an ongoing evaluation of institutions' education and research, and we need an independent accreditation and evaluation centre which, on a professional basis, controls and testifies to the quality of institutions. This independence from the ministry is important for the reputation internationally, and a centre will be a driving force for institutions to focus on quality assurance. The institutions must continue to be responsible for ensuring that all disciplines and degrees meet international quality objectives. The government's proposal for an evaluation body is not enough. I am pleased that there is now a break-up on the proposal of the Mjøs Committee on a Centre for Accreditation and Evaluation. Our focus on quality makes the Christian People's Party also reject the Government's proposal for university status based on a doctorate. There must still be a division of labour between universities and colleges. Universities should continue to have a reasonable width and depth at the master/master level and in the field of research competence and training. The Mjøs Committee has formulated good criteria for new, future universities. These criteria work so that we get a dynamic educational structure, and give institutions the opportunity to improve their quality. We need to strengthen the good research environments, including those outside today's universities. Colleges with doctoral degrees, such as Agder, Stavanger and Bodø, need to develop further through the allocation of research funds. The same applies to other good research environments. This allows good universities to develop and obtain accreditation as universities. The Christian People's Party believes that a new degree structure with three-year Bachelor's degree and two-year Master's degree as the main model will make it easier for Norwegian students to take part in their foreign education. I can't quite see that today's graduation system makes Norwegian education better than higher education in other Western countries. Together with a closer follow-up of the individual student, new forms of study and better use of the academic year, the Christian People's Party believes it is possible to obtain a better quality study. But this will require increased resources. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that we must have a reform of investment, not a savings reform. We are ready to provide resources for universities and colleges in 2002 and 2003 to an extent that allows for quality reform. However, it is important that a teaching promise does not go beyond increasing research efforts. The Government will now continue its work on a new, three-part financing model. I consider it important to stress that the design of this will be important in order to be able to obtain incentives for both quality, student exchange and necessary conversion. In order for universities and colleges to develop better adaptability and quality, it was an important conclusion in the Mjøs Committee that they had to have greater freedom from the ministry. The Mjøs Committee therefore called its setting "Freedom with responsibility". Also, the government thought they gave greater freedom by introducing net budgeting at colleges. This is not freedom good enough for future-oriented institutions. I am therefore pleased that the Storting is now going further. The Christian People's Party will allow the universities to establish and complete studies of up to three years. The government would have up to two years. Furthermore, the institutions themselves are given the freedom to design the content of the Bachelor's degree, while the Government would have detailed requirements. The Christian People's Party wishes to organise the institutions as administrative bodies with special powers, but it assumes that the institutions have the freedom to enter into peripheral zone activities as a limited liability company, as outlined by the Mjøs Committee. This is important in order to strengthen cooperation between the institutions and industry on research and regional industrial development. I am pleased that the Committee supports this, and that is much more concrete than what the Government is in the Communication. The Christian People's Party also believes that the institutions themselves should decide how to organise their internal governance. In addition, we are open to pilot schemes with special-law companies whose institutions feel they need to do so in order to meet their tasks. The Christian People's Party believes that greater freedom for universities and colleges is necessary for the institutions themselves to take responsibility for their own development. We're now making this right. A major weakness of the Government's message was that it did not have a comprehensive perspective for higher education. State Council Gian chose to base ownership on the view of higher education. For the Christian People's Party, quality is more important than ownership. That's why we believe that the private colleges are something more than a supplement to public universities and colleges. Today is 10 pst. by Norwegian students at private colleges, and we do not ask if the schools are private or public when the students go abroad. And then we ask for quality. The public should continue to be responsible for providing good higher education, but I am pleased that there is now a stir to establish a more equivalent treatment of public and private education services that meet clear quality requirements, and that these are dealt with in accordance with the same principle, as we have committed ourselves to in the Bologna Declaration. That is why we need to have a simpler code for private colleges, for example. in the recognition of professional plans, and we need to have a common law for state and private institutions in higher education. In addition, when we get an independent accreditation and evaluation centre, we get a real equivalency based on quality between public and private institutions, for the benefit of everyone. The Stortingsmeldung also outlines a new study finance scheme. The Christian People's Party believes that good government funding for studies is important to give everyone an equal right to education. We need to return to the full-time student. The Christian People's Party will raise the cost standard by $1,100 a month and give 40 pst. scholarship share. We are very concerned that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party support the Government's proposal to make the entire grant dependent on weights and study progress. We think this increases the fear of debt among the students, and can reinforce the crooked social recruitment to higher education. In particular, many students can experience the learning environment in the last year in a bachelor's degree or master's degree as very difficult, which may go beyond student outcomes and results. The Christian People's Party will work for the Workers' Party and the Advance Party to lose their majority after the election, and will already notify political struggles for all students to receive a basic scholarship. This we believe will improve the study effort. I also regret that there is no majority in favour of reintroducing the arts scholarship. However, I am pleased that the student children’s families will receive increased support by increasing child support. With the exception of the study funding, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now getting a reform of higher education with a wide range of origins here in Stortinget. The size has taken seriously the challenges described by the Mjøs Committee. The size now ensures the quality of higher education. We give greater freedom to institutions, ensure equal treatment of private and public institutions and show the willingness to fund a quality reform. I note that today's attitude is different from that of the Government, and that the Christian People's Party is part of the proposal for 17 of the 19 decision points. I bring up the suggestions in the setting that the Christian People's Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e408	Arne Lyngstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e413	It should be indisputable that higher education policy is one of the most central instruments we have in our rural policy. For the Workers' Party, it is a fundamental objective that we should have good training throughout the country. There is an important reason why the Workers' Party is very sceptical about the creation of ever-new private services in a situation where training is already being developed for almost all applicants. We fear that creating even more opportunities for private actors can lead to the creation of several of the most popular education services in central Europe. This, in turn, may lead to a decline in the search for higher education in the districts, and, in the worst case, a reduction in the number of places of study in the districts, and perhaps a reduction in the total number of courses. The Christian People's Party has throughout this process, including: in the budgetary procedure, marked itself a strong follower of private colleges. In the handling of the big message we are dealing with today, the Christian People's Party is taking a step further towards the Right. When the central government, with Jon Lilletun at its head, presented the main message on the dimensioning of higher education in May 1999, it stated: ‘The private universities represent an important complement to the state’, while in the position we are discussing today, the three central parties go together with the Progress Party and the Right and underline, as the representative Arne Lyngstad was in his post, ‘that individual training offers at private institutions are more than a complement to public offers’. My questions to the representative Arne Lyngstad are therefore the following two: Firstly, does the Christian People's Party now distance itself from the Bondevik government saying that private colleges are a supplement? Secondly, if the representative Arne Lyngstad sees increased growth of private services in higher education as a means of affecting training provision in the districts, for example: Nord-Trøndelag University?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e426	The Christian People's Party still believes that state colleges and public universities will be the cornerstone of our higher education system, and that they still have to be. However, we know that competition and the offer to students are not, in fact, just from the private institutions and actors. It is possible for students in Norway, Norwegian students, to go abroad. It is well possible for students in Norway to register on the Internet and receive education through it. These are offers that make us have a completely different education market. That's why the key question we're actually facing is, which institutions are the ones that can provide the best quality? I think it is important that the state colleges and universities in Norway get better framework conditions so that they can provide it with the study offer. We have private actors in Norway. We have long traditions for private actors in higher education, for example. in the field of health education. In the field of theology, we know that the largest institution is private – the same in economic education. Yes, as far as I know, BI is currently providing education in 40 different places in Norway. This actually shows that you are asking for a qualitatively good offer, not necessarily about who is driving it. But in order for us to be able to have higher education as a tool in a regional economic development, now everyone with good higher education, it is important that the public has the state universities around, and that we have the universities around. The public shall not evade its responsibilities there. On the other hand, we're going to take it, and enable them to compete for the good students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e435	The majority, including the Christian People's Party, have their own comment that it is important to bet on research in North Norway. Of course, the right is in agreement that we should bet on research in North Norway. We have, as the representative Lyngstad knows well, put into the revised budget a strong increase in the Research Fund, something that the Christian People's Party would not be involved in. We can leave this right here. It was the regional distribution the representative Lyngstad was a bit concerned about. Right will strengthen research in North Norway – yes. But we see a need for a strengthening across the country. And when the Christian People's Party and others have nevertheless chosen to refer in particular to a part of the country, North Norway, in this context, does that mean that there should be a relatively stronger increase in North Norway than elsewhere? Should the bet be stronger there than in the Trendelag? Is it More and Romesdal it's going to go beyond? Is it the West, the South, the Austland? Or is it just a general statement of intent that we name North Norway, but then we essentially mean the same thing as Right, that research is important to increase all over the country? It would be a little interesting to get to the depths of what the representative Lyngstad and the Christian People's Party think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e442	When I listened to the line, I really sat down and wondered if it was an enviable healthy greasing that had a line. But I won't think like that. It is clear that the starting point for the Christian People's Party, also with regard to the allocation of research funds, is that there should be qualitatively good projects on the ground. However, it has not prevented the Christian People's Party from taking action that has strengthened research and education in North Norway. Christian People's Party was an instigator for the establishment of the University of Tromsø. We were also a pusher to move the Polar Institute from Oslo to North Norway. And it is clear that we are now facing a new increase in the Norwegian research effort which must also benefit the various regions of Norway, including North Norway. Nord-Norway has a number of good assumptions to be able to come up with good research projects in several important areas of research, including: in the marine sector. So I think that the problem that Løvik sketches is actually something the representative is trying to make into a principle issue, which is really not, because we know that we are going to increase research efforts, and that Nordic research environments are qualitatively equal to other research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e449	The approach has a small contribution under the research section, which says that the majority – that is, all the citizens – want to join a tax credit scheme for investment in business research, according to the Hervik model. The Progress Party has twice now promoted a concrete proposal on tax incentives for nutrient-based research following the majority model in the Hervik Committee. It's been voted down both times. It was now remarkable that on Friday the Economic and Social Committee put forward a concrete proposal on a case, as proposal I, concerning the deduction of nutrient-based research following the Hervik model's majority proposal. The only people who voted against this on Friday were the Workers' Party. I would therefore ask the representative Lyngstad to elaborate carefully on why he repeatedly opposes precisely tax incentives following the majority position of the Hervik Committee when these have been proposed by the Progress Party in concrete matters, while agreeing with a note like the one I have referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e458	It is true that the Christian People's Party has been committed to increasing the research effort of industry. We have repeatedly pointed out that a grant scheme has not been sufficient and that tax incentives are needed to obtain the additional effort needed. It has not been in the Christian People's Party. We have been working all the time to get this done, and if I don't remember completely wrong, the SND message on Friday made a decision to base the Hervik committee's principles. At least it is in the position of the revised national budget, and there is a majority, because now the Central Party has also given its support to this proposal. So I feel for a secure reason, that this is being adopted now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e466	Two brief comments first: I refer to the one proposal in the vote on which the right-hand side stands alone – proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox And then a little remark about my little line change with the case rapporteur earlier in the debate. I asked why the Workers' Party is absolutely opposed to the majority proposal from the Mjøs Committee on the Organisational Form of Universities and Universities. It is a proposal that is exactly the same as the Workers' Party's proposals for organisational reform in the health sector. I was told that the reason is that the Workers' Party is against privatisation. It must mean that the reform to which the Workers' Party has joined the Health Council is a privatisation reform. Then I think the case rapporteur must have a slightly special opinion of what she has been doing to support her own government in terms of one of the most important reforms in this process of mass destruction. Not everyone has the same sense for the category of older professors, and I realize that having lived for a while can be a significant handicap – especially if you have the memory. I have experienced quite a number of university and higher education reforms and their laws over the last decade in Norway. And there's one experience that stands for me as the totally bomb-proof experience you can extract from these different laws and the attempts at reform. It is that in Norway we suffer from a significant overdose of belief in detailed management of legislation. The university and higher education law we have today, I think there is a general consensus that in the whole sector is far too detailed, and it is too much based on the idea that the governance systems must necessarily be the same at all institutions, regardless of the size of the institutions, regardless of their profile, regardless of their status. If there's an experience we should be mature to draw when we try to implement a new reform, then this way of ruling is counterproductive. It makes resources – and I think of both the human, professional and material resources – much less used than they could and should be. The reason why the Right does not want to lock down a structure that allows all universities and colleges to be administrative bodies can be read from the majority’s desire to use the legislation to govern in detail this time. One does not even want institutions to be allowed to determine their own internal governance system at the basic level. At my discretion, this is a coercion in the double sense of the word. No one wants to oppose the attempt by the institutions to introduce new arrangements, including: lighting and adding institution managers or dean – great if an institution so wishes. However, there is no reasonable reason why the Storing Act requires all institutions to choose such a governance regime. Why is there a need for a quality reform in Norwegian higher education? It's not because we have institutions that are dinosaur-shaped. This is primarily due to a historical relationship: from the late 1980s to the mid-1990s, we had almost a flood of higher education institutions in Norway. In a few years, the number of students at the University of Oslo increased by 100 pst. So the number of students doubled. Institutions were given a certain increase in resources to avoid this formidable increase in student numbers, but far from enough to keep up with it. And what happened when the student population started to decrease? Well, then the governments — first the government of Jagland, then the current government — began to cut down on the appropriations for the sector as the number of students went down. That is why our higher education institutions are seriously underfunded, and today they have no opportunity to make optimal use of their research and teaching resources. It is therefore most gratifying in the work on this big message that the work that the Government has not done has been done by the Government Committee in defining precisely and clearly what is the resource prerequisites for the implementation of the ambition to strengthen the teaching effort. It is the most important thing that has happened in the work on the Storing Message. The other joy that has happened is that there has been an agreement – at last the Workers' Party has also joined – on one of the main proposals of the Mjøs Committee, namely to establish an independent professional body for the accreditation and evaluation of what is going on in higher education. It's a fundamentally important step in the direction of strengthening just the quality. It is also gratifying that there is a large majority in the Committee, all parties other than the Government Party, which endorses the unanimous proposal of the Mjøs Committee on the criteria on which university status should be based. It is vital for the quality of our universities and colleges that the balance between research and education is maintained. What happened in the period 1988-89 to the mid-1990s was a long way to go that universities had to push the problems ahead by saluting the burden of students on the research part of the business. It is a policy of disaster in the long term because it leads to a gradual deterioration in the content and quality of education. In order to maintain the balance between research and education in the future, it will be necessary for the Government to raise substantially its own level of ambition with regard to the research side of the activity. It was agreed, when the Stortinget dealt with the Research Communication, that a greater proportion of the research appropriations should go directly to the institutions instead of going the way about the Research Council. In the government's budget proposal last year, the profile was exactly the opposite. It was cut off the appropriations for the institutions, while there was some increase in the appropriations for the Research Council. I am pleased that the Committee now reiterates in this position the agreement reached in the Storting on the examination of the research communication, namely that a greater part of the basic research appropriations should go directly to the institutions. Let me also mention that the Right has taken the consequences of this in the suspension of the revised national budget and suggests that the alerting of the escalation of the capital of the research fund should just as well happen immediately – that is. that the capital is already being built up to DKK 15 billion in the current year. The advantage of this is that the return of the fund will be able to go into Norwegian research as early as next year. It is important that the availability of free research resources to our basic research environments is significantly better than it is today, because in the long term it is also the condition for a quality improvement of the education and training side to be carried out in the real world. I note that of the 19 Roman number decisions proposed in the vote, the Right is included in 17. What we do not agree with is the proposal on the subject of the arts education, where the Workers' Party forms the majority with the Progress Party. The second is the proposal using the ‘shall’ form of organisation at the basic level of institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e491	No salary has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e496	Let me first say in the case of the small dispute that has been between the committee leader and the representative of Wage about this in an organizational way, that I think it's a bit funny that a person who has been a principal at the University of Oslo and who is a professor, doesn't know the difference between a hospital and a college or a university. I had basically expected more of the representative's salary. I think it must be a sad day for the representative of Inge Wohnung today. He has not received a pass for many of his cases. He had probably strictly taken the hope and thought that when the message came, it would lead to a unisonous roar from the sector that this is absolutely terrible, that here you have to do completely different things, or rather not do anything, as you have the impression is Right Policy. It wasn't like that. The sector has largely concluded up on the proposals contained in the notification, and we in the Workers' Party are of course very pleased about that. Then I register that the Right and the representative of the Wage have suddenly received a touching care for the study funding and believe that the Workers' Party is fully on the wild roads here. It has not been long since the representative Wohnung himself managed a selection to discuss the Higher Education Policy. Where it is said that the sample will not propose to increase the grant rate, the grant rate should therefore remain at 30 pst. I have afterwards registered that the representative Wohnning is trying to distance himself a little from the sample he himself led, but according to the representative Wohnning himself, this was approved by the central government of the Right, and the national meeting in the Right never decided that the grant share would be more than 30 p.m. That means that this is what would be government policy if the Right put in government. This would mean that during a six-year study you would have NOK 48 000 more in debt than with our arrangement. Why has the representative Salaries and the Right suddenly received a touching concern for the students and the study funding? I think it's a fact that if we hadn't put the funds in now, the proposal would never have come from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e507	I can confirm to the representative Norvoll that I see a difference in a hospital and a university building. I have even frequented some university hospitals. These two sectors are the organisational fabric together with each other in the Norwegian system, if the representative Norvoll has not discovered it. But my point was actually quite different, namely that the Workers' Party's approach to renewing the whole public sector, argues ideologically in one way in terms of the health sector, and in the exact opposite way in terms of universities and colleges. If it is true, as is argued in the health sector, that it is necessary to give greater responsibility, greater authority and greater freedom to individual institutions, it is amazing that it is not right to do the same in the university and higher education sectors. But this isn't my problem. It is the Labour Party's problem that a single party government can split ideologically in two different directions of heaven because the two departments are governed by state councils living in each of their ideological universe. That's not my problem. So the study funding question. Interestingly, the representative Norvoll is concerned about something quite different from the setting we are dealing with today. In the setting we're dealing with today, the front lines are perfectly clear. The right and centre parts go for a carrot model, i.e. that the grant there today, which provides the students with a reasonable degree of safety, shall be at the bottom and shall be an extra premium for those who carry out at the normal time. The Labour Party has joined forces with the Advance Party and insists on using whips and threats instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e514	The evening post today has a very interesting chronicle, written by Arild Tjeldvoll, professor of comparative education research at the University of Oslo. He mentions in his article issues that suggest that it may seem somewhat unclear who has power over higher education institutions. Some people claim, and they've done it over time, that it's the department, but it's starting to go up for, for example. I think maybe the professors have more power over their own institution than what I thought was possible with a strong department. Much in the representative's work reports suggests that he is still very much in agreement with his former colleagues. But that's not what I wanted to bring up here. On the right, there is a comment in this setting that they want students to be free to choose whether to study in Norway or abroad. Therefore, the right is in favour of a funding scheme for higher education, which is to be a value check from the country for each student. That validation shall also be eligible as part of a fee grant. After all, the Advance Party, and especially myself, has promoted different names of price financing. I have called it «voucher», I have called it unit-price financing. In this setting, I call it action-driven financing, where one third of the money follows the student. I would like wages to clarify the large and obvious differences between the financial systems, which means that he cannot join the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e523	There is agreement in the Grand Duchy on a macro-model for the allocation of funds to universities and higher education institutions, and there is agreement that it must have three components: a basic allocation that does not fluctuate with student numbers, a research allocation to ensure that the scope and quality of the research are also independent of variations in student numbers, and a third component that depends on student numbers and weights production. The only problem is that this model that Stortinget actually outlined and asked about the research piece almost three years ago is not yet presented by the department. But the principle agreement is present. There is some disagreement about how the third component, the one that can be put on the formula ‘Money follows the student’, should be designed in practice. And what the Progress Party and the Right initially agree on is that the easiest and least bureaucratic way to do this would be to make a calculated sum per. Student, and then make sure that the sum follows the student where the student chooses to complete his studies. It would solve at least one problem that we face in today's system, namely the difference between private and public institutions in Norway – that students who choose to take a civil economy education at BI pay a significant fee, while those who take exactly the same education at the School of Business in Bergen do not pay anything. So I think that more important than what separates us is what unites us, that this is the easiest way to facilitate the principle of equal treatment between foreign students/home students and between those studying at private and public institutions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e530	The Centre Party considers it important that higher education institutions consist of public administrative bodies with special powers. We believe that the community should be primarily responsible for the provision of education. In the view of the Centre Party, it is not right for the market mechanism to govern education policy alone. I don't think we would have had the diversity we see today, with 26 state colleges distributed across the country, if we had released the roof of public ownership. Does not the Right believe that competence building and industrial development are important throughout the country? And does not the Right see that this is best ensured mainly by the fact that the institutions remain in the public administration body, which also assumes responsibility for the small and less popular subjects? Another theme: Also in this setting, on page 11, Right-wing criticism of Reform 94 says that today’s students have a worse basis than before. But what was the situation before? Well, then there was only a small minority of the population who had the opportunity to take higher education. It was just those with the best character from high school, with the degree artium, who came in. It was clear that the final results had to be good! Now we, including universities and colleges, have to deal with the fact that more than half of the youth schools have study skills and then have the opportunity to start higher education. And they do. Is the Right willing to tell them that we do not need all of you in the building of competences for the nation of Norway — and you also have too poor entry keys. Is this a position that is in line with the Right’s objective of raising Norway to a higher level of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e539	The Centre Party and the Right agree that ensuring a qualitatively good and sufficiently comprehensive offer of higher education is a State task. We're not at all in disagreement about that. On the other hand, we disagree on whether this state task necessarily needs to be carried out in such a way that universities and higher education institutions are administrative bodies. For my part, I have a very hard time seeing the logic of it. The most decentralised higher education institution in Norway is BI. This institution has study facilities throughout Norway and is known to be organised as a private foundation. The primary task of the public is to ensure the existence of offers and to ensure that these offers are financed. In this context, the organisation of institutions is a secondary issue. I must point out that I have a little difficulty in understanding what these specific powers are all about, when one is not even willing to give the institutions the power to arrange their own internal administration, but wants to use the law to dictate it. Then not all the world will be restored by special powers. It's not true that the so-called elite universities in previous stages of history were intellectual elite universities. They were social elite universities, that is. that it was only those who had a sufficiently good economy from their parents who could study. Nor is it true that there were particularly high character requirements, other than in a few studies. So it's not fair to conclude that the students who used to do colleges and colleges were so much better equipped than the students are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e548	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e551	It seems that it is my lot here in life to point out that the Progress Party has also in this setting made proposals that would have taken care of the school money issue. But the Right has gone against it as well. Higher education, a spearhead in Norwegian competence – is that really how this landscape is? Is ‘a spearhead in Norwegian competence’ something that can also have a pervasive effect in a globalised society? We are faced with rationalisation, efficiency and empowerment as important components of the position of the Mjøs Committee, which we treat as a message from the Government today. In the debate on education in Norway, the Progress Party held a very clear and consistent profile, from the six-year-old to the doctoral student. All our policies are concentrated on quality criteria, user involvement, full funding and simple organisational models and structures related to the full-time student and to research of high international standards. However, the introduction of the principle of quality means the clarification of responsibilities, the detection of where the quality principle is not adequately addressed in the chain, and the clarification of the power structure of each institution and its organisational partners. I'd like to refer to my line to the representative's salary instead. Our policy is about internationalisation at a high international level. For me, study funding is perhaps one of the most important steps in this reform, because without students we do not actually have one university again, and without students we do not need universities either, because we can call it'research institutions'. Thus, the student in reality becomes ‘crumb’, neither more nor less, in relation to professors, amanuences or others. As far as study funding is concerned, the Progress Party has had a clear profile for several years, both in programmes and in practical policies. This profile will be continued. In our opinion, an effort-driven financing of public higher education requires that we revitalise the full-time student, which is almost an absent phenomenon today. This requires a cost standard that provides satisfactory opportunities for full-time study. The Progress Party is fully aware that in 1975 the other parties unanimously decided to attach the cost standard for students to the industrial worker wage. This has resulted in a full-time student having a total income of approx. NOK 65 000 per year. years until the decision today. I don't think anyone can claim that the 1975 decision has been fulfilled by the other parties. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to link the student's income development to the basic amount of the population's return. This link will provide students with annual adjustments via social security and, in a cooperative form, may also help pensioners out of a pinch of underregulations of pensions. But our proposal, which in our opinion is very good, does not get a majority because – yes, it gets one to ask the other parties about. The progress party has also taken inwards the fact that someday students have completed their education and are going into an establishment phase. What this implies shows all the depreciations made by the Loan Fund over time. We want to counteract this. This is why we are promoting proposals that student loan repayments should be treated in the same way as interest in relation to the EQF. The proposal alone will result in all students, regardless of the size of the grant, receiving a tax-regulated grant of 28 pst. of the instalments every year. Just because of this overall thinking, the Progress Party may be in favour of a study loan with the conversion of exam results into scholarships, without yielding worse results for weak groups or for students who for a period do not have the opportunity to follow up as closely as they should. That's why we can't support the other bourgeois parties' proposals for loans, 30 pst. a permanent scholarship during the study period, in addition to an input-driven scholarship scheme of 10 pst. As far as our foreign students are concerned, we want them to be happy, and give everyone who studies in well-qualified disciplines, a promise to follow their income development with the argus eyes. It will over time force a recognition of a global accreditation system. The Progress Party believes that such a system, where Norway has to participate in the same way as all the other institutions in the world that will mean something, will benefit those who study full time beyond the borders of the country. We want a coverage of school money for these through international agreements, not through bilateral agreements between institutions that like to cooperate best with those that are equal to one itself. We will continue to work intensively to get a majority – with material content – to maintain the currency fluctuations of the markets over time. Furthermore, the Progress Party has worked a great deal for equality between the public-owned and private-owned educational institutions in Norway. In our opinion, it is a ‘shut’ system when highly accredited education, which is given only at one private university, is called a supplement. All the questions on which there is a broad consensus are already commented on in the knowledge and the broad. We have heard the criticism of the Council of State. I'm not going to spend precious time repeating any of this, but instead I'm going to focus on our primary position and our policy. The Progress Party alone is proposing a three-year Bachelor's degree, based on a scheme of three semesters per year. calendar year. The reason for this is very simple and is based on the fact that Norway, like the United States, does not have sufficient quality and specialisation in their initial training courses. Lack of knowledge here needs to be compensated for by longer education, and a three-summer scheme will in reality – for those who can count – mean a traditional four-year bachelor, as they have in the United States. When many claim that this will prevent both research and internationalisation, these positions fall on their own unfairness. The United States is not hindered by its four-year scheme, nor Australia, where the three-semester scheme is practiced in several places. The Progress Party will make all qualitatively good higher education economically equal by following the student’s training money, irrespective of where the studies are conducted, as long as they have a good quality content. This is one of the reasons why the Progress Party over time, and especially in relation to the suspension of the Mjøs Committee, has placed great emphasis on an independent accreditation body. It shall be a body responsible for ensuring the quality, evaluation, award and withdrawal of the recognition of institutions’ training provision. This is particularly important when institutions themselves, including at higher education level, are given responsibility for setting up and leaving subjects within a three-year framework. It is regrettable and sad that the majority has not looked beyond their own nose tip and therefore quite uncritically follows the position of the Mjøs Committee, which we also support subsidiaryly as the second best. In this context, it is important to note the comments in the statement with references to geographically dispersed institutions. I'm thinking about Agder, I'm thinking about Rogaland, I'm thinking about everything that's been said about North Norway, and I'm thinking about the Inland University -- what's strange about it now. For the Progress Party, only quality of education is important. I would like to mention one example that, in terms of quality, stands safely and well on one's own legs, and that's the Stavanger High School. It does a very good job in oil and oil-related education and research, as well as special pedagogics with reading, writing and behavioural research, and probably has one of the highest environments in the country. Management and organisation are more important and important in this sector as well. Therefore, the Progress Party wants ‘universities, colleges and their peripheral societies to be transformed into independent legal entities’. We directly disagree with the model of management companies with extended powers. These have proved to be a poor solution in the health sector, and we don't understand why anyone can think it will be so much different for higher education. Furthermore, we will have an external majority of the boards of higher education institutions, with an appropriate and sound representation of students, scientific staff and other disciplines. Furthermore, it is important that the external majority does not become a partidological exercise, but those appointed should be persons with broad competence and high legitimacy. The model is further developed by the management of administrative directors in accordance with the principle of time-limited exposures. However, the Party of Advancement will claim that the Governing Board is free to clean them if the Governing Board so wishes. Furthermore, the Progress Party would like all Norwegian educational institutions to be made equal in terms of funding and recognition. The Progress Party has also put forward proposals for tax incentives, which I pointed out in a reply, but for which we unfortunately do not get a majority either. The Progress Party also shows that we have a large amount of experience with just effort-driven funding in the healthcare sector. Therefore, the good principles should be applicable to higher education regardless of disagreement with single words or not. Such an introduction will provide a three-part funding model, all agreed – basic funding, own research pot and funding for training. The research team also believes that the experience of the health care system will ensure that one student does not necessarily mean one sum of money. The different courses cost different, students are different — some require less, others require more. There's room for great variation here. We need to use the knowledge we have to get just these variations in an input-driven financing model. We are therefore promoting a proposal to introduce input-driven funding in higher education too. It is more than strange that this proposal does not get a majority, but that is the way life is. The last time I have at my disposal, I will apply to another matter that lies at my heart, «Green University». Moved to the left for a time. Moved to the left. Moved to the left. Moved to the left. Moved to the left. Moved back. 8-proposals which had in themselves the principle of bringing together the Swedish Veterinary College in Oslo, with a section among others. in Sandnes, and the Agricultural University of Ås for a green university. As an Akershus politician, I think it was very positive for Akershus in the proposal, but as a big-scale politician, I am very afraid that the environment will not necessarily benefit from this. We should not forget that research on aquaculture, food safety research, comparative medicine research, which is becoming more and more important also for human medicine, is being carried out essentially in cooperation between highly qualified veterinarians and researchers in other fields in our human hospital, institutions, etc. By moving the Veterinary College to Ås, these clear points of contact would be dramatically weakened. Furthermore, a situation would have been created which has not been discussed here at all in relation to agricultural production in Ås, and it is affecting the epidemiological conditions of diseases spreading in herds. And Norway has a fairly good knowledge of what is happening in both jealousy and foot-and-mouth disease now, so maybe that, also based on such considerations, is not so clever. The Progress Party therefore supports the proposal to examine this further. I refer to the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e597	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e603	I'm glad that Ursula Evje and the Progress Party don't get multiple numbers for so many of their proposals, i.e. that everyone they stand for does not get multiples for. What I'm most pleased about is that they don't get multiple input funding, that in principle it's only Right and the Progress Party that is in favour of that scheme. It's good, and I feel sure there's such a solid plural that doesn't go into that line. The party of progress has been engrossed by bureaucracy and public expenditure in most contexts. In the case of proposal No: 7, the representative has spent a great deal of time talking about the full funding of all students’ school money regardless of where the study takes place, as long as the qualitative content is satisfactory. It's ideally very nice, but it would have been good for us all to hear from the Progress Party if they had an overview of what this would cost. In addition to this proposal, there is also proposal No. 12, where they ask the Government to make the necessary proposals so that Norwegian educational institutions are treated equally in terms of funding and recognition. When we asked the department what it would cost if the tuition fees at BI were to be equal to the public, we got an answer: 250 million. kr. So my question is, what is the amount that the Progress Party will spend on this, and where did they put it in their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e610	Ranveig Frøiland was pleased that very much of the Progress Party program was not going to be adopted. Can one imagine a Labour Party Council and a Labour Party representative there is a greater difference than Tune and Frøiland? That's really weird. Government Council barrels are open, he looks beyond, he sees opportunities for change, and he grips them, he does something with them. Ranveig Frøiland – whether it's herself or whether it's because of the influence of others in the party, I don't know – has doubts about a system of higher education that we all know has played down. And that's very sad, because the changes are coming, but it'll take at least 10 to 15 years. Turning higher education is kind of like turning a big mind out on the ocean. Should it change course, it uses an awful lot of water before it has changed a few degrees. The most worrying thing about the Progress Party is that in the context of globalisation that is necessary to prevent Norway from slowing down and aligning itself with the developing countries we like to compare with, we need to make changes, we need action, there must be things happening. The representative of Frøiland asks me about the costs of our proposal No. Seven and twelve. It is quite clear that at the speed of the government's making proposals that are adopted in the Storting – if they don't like them – we have a very good opportunity to calculate what this will cost, both one and two and three, and maybe four times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e619	The representative, Evje, took part in the meeting. in its submission The party's relationship to study funding. They want their own model. But the reality of today's situation is that the Progress Party provides the majority for the Workers' Party, and that can be a disaster for the well-being of many students. There is a funding mechanism that can lead to social inequalities; too many people will not be able to take the chance of higher education when they risk becoming debt slaves. This will particularly affect young people who do not already have financial security. Christian People's Party wants a funding scheme for the students where there is a basic scholarship at the bottom. This will create a safety net for the students, while we want to motivate the progress through a weight-dependent increase in the grant rate from 30 to 40 pst. The Christian People's Party will also want to get students faster through the study and have the full-time student back. A order of 10 pst. scholarships for the students conducting their studies will motivate the students, while at the same time they would have a solid scholarship at the bottom. Unfortunately, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party do not want to follow this model, and it turns out that they do not really believe in their own model either, when they ask the department in a note ‘to obtain a fixed percentage of scholarships’. These lots will have a way out, because one realizes that it can carry the wrong place when the entire grant rate is made depending on the weight. So what is that going to be like? With student democracy? Who dares spend time on it? It may not be so important for the Progress Party, but I would like to know why the Progress Party will not take more account of those who are not so strong that they pass the exam on the first attempt, and why they take from the students the basic security that lies in today's grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e630	I myself experience that I explained very carefully why we could go for a model that converts exam results into scholarships, and why we have it in our program in a larger context. It must be allowed, also for the Workers' Party and for the Advance Party, to propose to have more knowledge of the model on which the majority is so extremely concerned. After all, when you have the necessary experience, you can – if it is required – make the changes that are necessary in the future, if that is the case. In the case of these poor students who do not have a safety net under them, which the representative Scarbøvik was very concerned about, I would like to refer to our proposal No. 15, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to ensure that student loans are also subject to tax deductions on the same basis as interest.’ This means 28 pst. grant of the tax return every year. If the representative of Scarbøvik had been genuinely concerned with both well-being and implementation, we would have had a majority in favour of this proposal. But the proposal is expensive – it is very expensive – and then it is not the genuine responsibility of the individual who is talking about it here; it is only the responsibility of the community money fund, which you do not want to spend more than the most necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e644	The representative, Evje, was busy in his articles. quality and internationalisation. Then it's a little bit strange to see what the Progress Party will write in the configuration of these elements. To begin with, quality means that the quality of teaching depends to a very high degree on the lecturers, on those who want to give students knowledge and insight and motivate them to seek further knowledge. In this setting, a comprehensive committee, other than the Progress Party, has been committed to upholding the principle of research-based education at universities and higher education institutions. I thought this was a little strange. Shouldn't teaching at Norwegian universities and universities be research based? Should there be some kind of continuation of the continuing school? When it comes to those who are going to teach Norwegian students so that they can meet in a good and proper way in the future, are we not going to make professional demands in addition to reading some books? We're going to get an answer to that. The second is on internationalisation. This is where the Committee’s plurality, except for the members of the Progress Party, says that foreign students must be better accommodated at Norwegian educational institutions. It's Right's view that we have great benefit and joy in sending students abroad, and that they have a lot to learn out there. But we also believe that it will be useful for foreign students as well as Norwegian universities, colleges and Norwegian students in Norway to get the impulses and thoughts that foreign students in Norway can give us. What does the Progress Party mean about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e653	It's quite correct, as the representative Løvik points out, that we haven't gone into this comment, because the whole message is essentially at a very low and comfortable level. The notification also indicates that the main gravity of foreign students in Norway comes from developing countries, and they are warmly welcome, including from the Progress Party. Because when we have an education that has better quality than education in u-country, we're going to divide it between us. What matters here is that Norway needs to get a quality of its education that makes students from very high-quality countries at its institutions think it is so exciting and challenging to get to Norway that they come here. Then we get the dialogue that Right wants, but that they don't get with the relatively tame grips that are done. And then the Progress Party feels that the full-time student out there, who comes home, who can build a new tradition and who can create a new development, is a beginning that we want to bet on in a system that works very badly, and which probably shouldn't be fined on in time and without. There are limits to how much money you should spend on something that should have been completely changed instead. As far as research-based higher education is concerned, it is quite obvious to many, although it is not for the Right, that there is education in higher education that does not need to be research-based, which may be more similar to what happens in secondary school, or what should have happened in a qualitatively much better secondary school. So here we have a job to do, and we don't want to hide behind these bottles.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e662	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e665	St.meld setting. No 27 is an important milestone in higher education. It is high time the Stortinget took into account the framework conditions for both students and educational institutions. The size was quick to increase the number of students when the unemployment rate was at its peak, but unfortunately not correspondingly fast to provide opportunities for necessary quality improvements. As seen, this day is an important event, provided that the necessary financial resources are allocated in line with the conclusions of the suspension. Universities and colleges are responsible for the long-term development of education and research and must therefore, in the view of the Centre Party, be financed mainly from public budgets. We will warn against developments where universities and colleges are becoming increasingly dependent on external funding, and where the appropriations fluctuate with the number of students. This took place in the time of the central government. The centre party is therefore satisfied that the current government continues the principle and proposes a new funding model with a basic part, a student funding part and a research part. The Committee stresses that the research notification forms the basis for today’s suspension. It makes no sense to talk about a quality promise for higher education without significantly strengthening the research activity at all higher education institutions. More attention must be paid to public budgets, while providing an optimal framework for business to stimulate research efforts, for the objective of achieving at least the OECD average level has not yet been achieved. I have chosen to begin with these economic considerations on the basis of the fact that the central parties have had to press the Labour Party to increase the budget lines in this area, both the last harvest and now in the revised national budget. It is precisely the economy that has been the main theme of the hearings of the message entitled ‘Do your duty — Require your right’. Not only students, but also institutions and awarding authorities must do their duty to claim their rights. The centre party is pleased that the study funding is strengthened, as the notification states, but we are not satisfied with the device it has received. In my opinion, making the grant share entirely dependent on weighted result is unfortunate. The reactions of student organisations are clearly in the same direction, cf. The debate in the Political Quarter today is early. I am surprised that the Workers' Party has been so close to the Advance Party's use of whipping policy in this area. The centre party fears that this may lead to many refusing to take on higher studies because of the danger of being left with large loans that will not be converted into scholarships. It is possible that the strong reactions of student organisations have led the Workers' Party and the Advance Party to hang on to a sentence that an investigation of a fixed grant should be made, and that is good. The Centre Party supports the Government's proposal for an improved and comprehensive learning environment. Here there is a significant potential for improvement, both in the field of education and in physical facilities at universities and colleges. Of course, there are variations, but the students are fully in agreement that there needs to be better follow-up and guidance. Regular feedback evaluation will be useful for students. While there is also a need for clear mutual obligations on the part of both institutions and students, the number of committees underlines the danger of having a contractual system that could lead to legal matrimony. No one will be worthy of that. It must be up to the institutions themselves to develop service declarations that both students and institutions find useful. The aim is to get more effective learning with better guidance and follow-up for the individual student. The proposal that the degree structure be made more similar to that of other countries with a bachelor's degree, master's degree and doctor's degree is supported by the Centre Party. This will have to lead to shorter and more concentrated courses of study. The major challenge will then be to cope with this, while content and quality will not be impaired. The three-semester scheme shall not be coercive; however, in the view of the Centre Party, it must be for the institutions to test out different models. We also agree that there should be diversity in higher education. Today's four universities will continue to have their special status as broad universities. At the same time, state universities must be given the opportunity to develop further in order to fulfil their role, primarily in the various areas of professional training, but also in the regional policy context. Strong environments that already have doctoral programmes, and schools that have advanced in this area, must be given the opportunity to be called universities according to the criteria of the Mjøs Committee with four doctoral degrees. This will ensure quality while not watering down the concept of university. It is worth noting that no party on the Stortinget approves the proposal of the Council of State Giske that one doctoral course should be a sufficiently professional criterion to be called university, cf. The Workers' Party's Note where it says "more than" one. The centre party shall base the unanimous designation of the Mjøs Committee. This means that it will have to take a little longer before colleges that are well established can get a university name. But we believe from the Central Party that the quality must go ahead. Otherwise, I refer to the Central Party's special comments on the inland higher education schools. We take note of the fact that two total counties go in so that the inland higher education institutions can eventually evolve into universities, and we hope that this will be facilitated in the future. Scientific colleges are in a special class with great research experience. I have a great deal of sympathy for these to be called universities if it's expedient. They have a very long experience in doctoral education. The central party believes that universities and higher education institutions should continue to be public administrative bodies, but should be given extended powers in relation to today. This will ensure some political governance, while allowing institutions to take part in the competition that is becoming more and more applicable in this area. We are therefore pleased that the activities of the institutions can be organised in their own companies. An example of how locked the system is today was to be read in Uppland Worksheet on 1 June this year. It says that the Ministry of Church, Education and Research refuses to purchase shares in Gjøvik Knowledge Park, and that the principal is not allowed to sit on the board, while the BI has two representatives on the same board. So this could change, so that higher education can better fulfill its role as a regional development actor. A rapidly changing society requires institutions with the ability to convert, resulting in institutional autonomy and decision-making. The Central Party welcomes the notification’s proposal to modify the composition of the Governing Board with a view to several external representatives. The Management Board shall draw up the strategy for the entire business of the institution. Good communication between the basic environments and central management is important. In many cases, professional environments may seem to have too little insight into the professional policy considerations at the centre. Management system with elected leaders at all levels has long traditions in Norway, while other countries have different practices. I assume that when adding to annual targets for faculty and institute managers – where the central party supports the notification – the addendum procedures shall be transparent and democratic so that all interested parties are given their views. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the new scheme should not go beyond the academic freedom on which the research is to be based. It is a prerequisite that the Chairperson has a high level of professional and administrative competence and integrity, in order to ensure the necessary legitimacy. Recruitment to research positions is worrying, with only one to two applicants for many of the positions. I've just seen an example of a fellow who was about halfway through his doctoral education, choosing to quit because of bad economic conditions. When a very good offer came from business, the candidate said thank you. "One cannot research without money, Marit," he said to me. No, there can be no quality lift without ensuring the recruitment. It is positive that the Stortinget now asks to have a case for recruitment. The message is a policy message, said the council when he presented it in March. The situation of the various institutions, with the exception of Sami higher education, is therefore not presented. It is natural from the particular situation of this institution. I have noticed the disappointment in the Sami environment that the government has not been more concrete in its leadership in this area. The Committee says that a case should be submitted on Sami education, and the centre parties and SV also state clearly that new premises for Sami higher education must be given priority. It's urgent! So to one of the other things, this with Green University - Document No. 8:57. The centre party supports the view that an investigation is correct which also addresses the difficult situation with regard to clinic building in Norway’s veterinary high school. The central party believes that Ås and Sandnes should be at the heart of such an investigation, while at the same time establishing links with the Veterinary Institute, and we therefore support the suspension as it exists. As regards Document No: 8:113 If the necessary measures are needed to ensure that students with difficulty in reading and writing, of course we support everything in the setting. In the event of an incurrency, I am not included as the proposer in document No. The 8-proposal, but I wish I had been. But it was something over time that made me fall out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e710	The representative of Tingelstad and I are some of the people who say that challenge scholarship is a central and important tool for giving young people motivation and not least the ability to choose challenges on a higher level. Therefore, the Labour Party proposes to increase the cost standard monthly. An increase from today's 30 pst. for about 40 pst. means a real increase of SEK 1.3 billion on the scholarship part only. I'm glad there's a wide multiple for this increase. The working party would like to return to the full-time student by granting the grant in future on the basis of completed studies. This will not be part of the Center Party, although the Labour Party will protect and continue the social arrangements that apply today. And I'm surprised that the Center Party can't support our study funding model, when Marit Tingelstad himself said in his post that the Workers' Party's comments on that point were good. When it comes to the Hajskole in Agder, Stavanger and Bodø, they have been working systematically for several years to build a strong professional environment to offer research skills. The Labour Party is in favour of changing the status of university to scientific colleges. This is, in our opinion, good district policy. We suggested that they have more than one research challenge, not least to find a compromise to also solve a problem in relation to an internal university in Tingelstad County, Oppland, but the central party was not willing to meet the Labour Party there. I find that the Center Party, along with the plurality, will make it difficult for these institutions to achieve the goal of university status, and that means that there can't be a reality for many, many years. Otherwise, the representative Tingelstad initially had a historical assessment and the research area. History recurs now. When the Workers' Party was in opposition, we had to push the center government for more means of research, and now we're recording that the Center Party is trying to push the Workers' Party government for more means of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e721	I will give praise to the Government for the great promise of study funding. I also did so in my comments that day the government sent the message. There's no doubt about it! But as I said then, I had to look at the model before I could do quite well for it. I studied it a little further and saw that there were such strict conditions to get the scholarship share that I later examined what the students themselves thought about this. I thought maybe they were a pretty competent group, not least in relation to the state council saying, I have the students with me, I have the professors with me, and I have the principals with me. We always heard that about the same time that the message was presented. When I studied this more carefully and listened to the user groups, I was not in doubt. We can't go good for Giske's model. It's going to look bad, and we can't be on it. Now we see that the Workers' Party has turned around, and I expect it to be in agreement with the Council of State. Now they have said that a model should be investigated, and then I ask, when will that model be investigated? Will it be investigated so quickly that it can be parallel to the original model of the Workers' Party, or will it come later when you have seen an unfortunate outcome? So to these good colleges with a good research environment that's mentioned, Stavanger, Agder, etc. Yes, I'm the first to admit it, but why can't we have these environments without them calling university yet? I want to point out what the Vice-Chairman of the Mjøs Committee, Tora Aasland, says in the newspaper of the Stavanger College: ‘I’m disappointed with the spillage message at the point of institutional transition. For a unanimous Mjøs Committee, it was important to take action to change the traditional university concept in Norway without losing sight of the quality aspect.’ I admit that it takes longer for these schools to become a university, and I also admit that in my own region, the inland states, it will take longer. But I'm concerned that quality has to be at the bottom before we choose the name.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e736	The right has confidence in the institutions. We want to give the greater freedom to rule itself. But what about the Central Party's confidence in local democracy at each high school and university? The central party broke with the Christian People's Party and the Left and gets the government plural for the institution and faculty leaders to be added. The Center Party is also involved in a large number of institutions that regulate the composition of the Board of Directors of Universities and Higher Schools. The centre party does not even trust that universities and universities can decide their own internal governance. When you go to the Center Party's major election program for the next election period, there's a little bit of a different tone. That's where it's called.\t\t You can change the settings ‘Centre parity will have a management system at universities and colleges which ensures maritime integrity of institutions... and considers that it is up to the institutions to decide whether the majority of boards shall be externally or internally.’ When the Central Party in the section of the setting breaks both with the rest of the Center and with its own application, there must be some reason for it. I would like to deepen the basis of the representative from Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e748	It's interesting that the right reads the minutes from the national meeting and our program, that's good. But I also read the old program that I've been through, and it also commits. I've compared these two, and I feel that I'm on a safe footing when I've fallen to the position that the group here is taking, and the comments that result from it. We don't trust the institutions, says Løvik. Yeah, we've got it. I have spent a lot of time thinking about just the logic that one should have chosen the principal and management at the top and added at the lower level. Then I want to use some words that Lucy Smith once said: To turn a university and a cemetery have one in common, you don't get help from those who are there. This might have something to do with it. I've checked at the universities around, and I've contacted all the student organisations, and they say it's very important that we go in for addition at the institute and faculty level. And I'm actually listening to the users. I think that is very important. So I went a little further into this and saw what the Roll-Hansen Committee, which presented a report last August on the reorganisation of the University of Oslo, has said. In that report, they include, inter alia: Taken into account the situation at universities in other countries: the University of Uppsala, Sweden, Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, University of Utrecht, the largest university in the Netherlands, University College London, Minnesota University, USA, and Stanford University, USA. In all these institutions, management at the basic level is appointed or employed by the principal or the board, i.e. not elected. I expect these are institutions that also feel the need to have their independence, but they have thus found that it is important that the strategy put before the board be defined throughout the organisation. Equalise what the University and Higher Education Council said: this is one of the most important elements in order to achieve the necessary transformation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e755	In today's Norway, we have a significant discrimination between universities and universities in public ownership versus the schools outside the public sector. 30 000 – 50 000 kroner are not uncommon as an extra cost if you choose a private alternative. When we know that private individuals in some disciplines and regions are actually alone in offering, it is obvious that we are eroding the desire that everyone should have equal rights to education, no matter what economic background they have. It's strange, therefore, that the Center Party, among other things. does not consider that it would support the proposal of the Progress Party 12 and, in part, also 7, which has the intention of remedying the discrimination actually taking place today. My question to the representative is: Why does the Senter Party believe that private alternatives should only be for those who have particularly good advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e762	We belong to the majority who say that private colleges are part of the higher education system, and we say that it's more than a supplement. We also see that a lot of private colleges have long historical traditions in Norway, such as the Faculty of Publicities, the University of Diakonhemem, the Academy of Teachers, etc. These have their natural place in this education system. However, we know that these are differently funded and have different state aid, and thus also receive students from some of these institutions, for example. BI, some different conditions. In recognizing that everyone should have the right to higher education and equivalent conditions for it, we agree to ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a case, to investigate how this tuition fee at these colleges turns out, and to consider covering some of it in the form of scholarships. We don't want to forge what this is like, but we recognize that it's unreasonable that students who take a course of education at such an institution because it might not be available in public, have to pay extra. It's an injustice we have to try to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e767	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e770	The reform we are about to adopt today is both a structural reform and a content reform. It is also a social reform, because study funding is a central element. There is reason to note that for what can be defined as a social reform, the Labour Party, together with the Progress Party, constitutes the political majority. It is this majority that adopts a drastic reorganization of study funding. It is this majority that decides not to implement the system of their own art scholarships; despite the fact that we know that many of those who choose art education end up as low-income debt slaves. No one can start a four-year art education with a low expected income without having a high level of self-financing of the studies. This means that art education is reserved to young people who have parents who can finance large portions of the cost during study. If there's something that we're absolutely certain about, it's that skills, facilities and creativity are not linked to social status. It is impressive in itself that young people choose an art education, with the expected incomes this implies, at a time when the heroes are not the artists, but exchange speculators and others who make fast money. That is why it should be a majority for our proposal that part of the student loan be written off when one has completed the education. We have defined in our proposal which groups should be covered by such a scheme. I can also say that we are going to subsidize the proposal from the inter-parties. Continuing, there is a biased recruitment to higher education. On the other hand, there is a greater likelihood that academics will choose higher education. On the other hand, children of high-income parents raise loans in the Loan Fund to a greater extent than children of low-income parents. The Loan Fund, which was a necessity for the youth of the working class in order to take higher education after the war and up to the 1970s, has now become a system used by middle class members. The system put in place by the Workers' Party today, supported by the Progress Party – which is, moreover, an old progress party proposal – will reinforce these biases. It is reassuring that the Workers' Party in this scheme chooses to leave what has been a completely necessary condition for recruiting children from the working class to higher education. High student participation, for which there is now a majority, is important and necessary – by the way, it is an old SV proposal – but the system conversion will not lead to more full-time students from classes and groups that are strongly underrepresented to higher education. If this is meant to be a saving proposal, it means that students who are unable to complete the study period within the prescribed time will take the costs themselves, costs that the community took earlier. These are probably not those who can expect the highest income when they have completed their education. If the goal of the Workers' Party is to reduce access to higher education students, I'm pretty sure there will be an effective barrier. What one has to include in the picture is that current students from families with the lowest income will fall away, not because it is more likely that they will not be able to carry out the study intellectually or in other ways within normal time, but simply because they do not have a safety valve in the form of home funding if something happens along the way. It is worth noting that the Workers' Party is now choosing to join the Advance Party in a change of study funding. I am pleased that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have a majority in favour of universities and colleges being management companies. These are key social institutions that need to be linked to political authorities. There must be no doubt that they will always be subject to the priorities and objectives of the Community. The safest guarantee is that they continue to be administrative bodies. SV adds that you have to have a great degree of freedom. In contrast to the Labour Party and the Government, we believe that each institution should be able to decide to set up and shut down subjects of a duration of up to three years. We are alone in saying that that right should also include master's degree. This is a follow-up to our position in the debate on framework plans. Some time ago, we dealt with a matter in a fourth year of teacher training. We suggested that frameworks for teacher training should be less detailed. We believe that greater local freedom in teacher training will strengthen both the professional and the pedagogical aspects of education. The same view marks our position on the freedom of institutions to develop new subjects and offers. In one area, we insist that it should be a bond. It is a completely wrong signal to give when the majority – all except the Workers' Party and SV – will not now demand professional immersion for the content of the Bachelor's degree. We cut in basic education by one year in relation to today's cand.mag.-grad. Some will perhaps be compensated for by the extension of the academic year and not least by closer follow-up of the students. Nevertheless, it is important that we take care of the requirement of professional immersion. It is surprising that the Right, which at least in party speeches speaks of poor knowledge, will not defend a claim for professional immersion for a lower degree of university education. Although university teacher training is to be assessed in a communication that discusses all teacher training, one must assume that when we adopt a structure for general schools in general, it will in some way have consequences for teacher training as well. Therefore, a requirement for professional immersion is important to kneel. I take note and I regret that this is not a majority for our proposal. We believe that the two-part central management system should be maintained. It is important that professional management is chosen by the institution's employees and students. This has to do with the autonomy of universities, which it is important to take care of. We realize that there may be advantages to employing middle managers to ensure coherent management from the principal down in the institution. An institution that adopts strategies and action plans must have a system to implement the plans, i.e. that there are people in the organisation at management level who feel loyalty to the plans adopted. We still choose to enter into an arrangement where the institutions themselves have to choose whether they will have elected management or whether they will hire them. There are so many differences between the smallest university of the University of Oslo that this freedom must be enjoyed by the individual institution. For us, this also has something to do with the legitimacy of management. And we believe that a knowledge company, like a higher education institution, has completely different management requirements than a traditional product-producing company has. The content reform is probably the most important and comprehensive. We continue to have a lot of experience with educational reforms, which are both content reforms and structural reforms. We usually manage structural reforms in a good way. What we're not going to do is often the content of the institutions we're trying to reform. Reform 94 is a good example. The evaluation shows that, after the adoption of new curricula and forms of work, too much remains in old tracks. We also know quite a bit about what governs teaching. What makes this reform more likely is that we are changing the forms of evaluation. We know that evaluation forms are central to teaching methods. The Committee is quite clear that students should have closer follow-up, the learning environment should be focused on each institution. Together with the en route assessment and a system in which assessments are to be more strongly supportive of learning, I believe that this means major changes in the teaching methods of the institutions. I'm sorry we don't get a majority for all good education to give merit. Good teachers will get back to this by adding weight to the assessment of the attendance of a professor. We believe that this will give an added boost to being a teacher, and we stress even more the relationship between research and education. All education at this level shall be research-based. If we're going to succeed, we're going to have to put in fresh funds. We take the consequences of this and put money into the revised national budget already. This is what we do to make the need more visible, but also because the institutions are going to start working on changing the forms of education. I record that there is no majority for this in the revised national budget. Then I'll take our suggestions into account in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e809	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e814	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that today it is decided to ask the Government to draft a proposal for a common law for state and private institutions in higher education. SV states in a note to the Communication that several of the private colleges play an important role in providing education in areas where public capacity is insufficient or where there is no established public offer. Furthermore, it is emphasised that some educational services provided by private institutions are more than a complement to public services. And SV believes that there should be an agreement between the State and the private provider on the scope of the offer and in which areas the private provider should meet a need. It is assumed that the private institution will receive the same grants as public institutions offering similar or similar offers. This testifies to a quality-oriented SV that puts quality ahead of ownership. The Christian People's Party thinks this is very positive, and it is interesting that private institutions can be an enrichment rather than a threat – because that's how we meet SV in other educational contexts in private schools. It would therefore be interesting to get a fundamental clarification from SV on why they believe in this context that private institutions play an important role — yes, as more than a supplement. That's the principal arrangement I'm looking for in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e825	Let me first of all say that the Christian People's Party is united with the Center Party and the Left in most of the remarks. And there's hardly any stakeholder organization, any group, who's been to the committee hearing, who hasn't got through to comments from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left. Verbal support has been given to them, but when it comes to the concrete proposals, there is little support for them. This is probably optimism to the nth power. We take the consequences of our position on private colleges. We recognize that in some areas they represent a supplement, and that they also represent an alternative that there might be reason to take care of. But what's our model and what we've sketched doesn't include the middle parties. They've used a lot of our formulations in their comment, but they don't take the consequences of that comment. What we're saying is that there should be an agreement between the state and the private institutions on what is offered and that it should have a similar role to the public offer. What is important is that these offers should be free of charge for the students. When an agreement is reached between a private institution and the public in an area we want to be covered by that institution, because it is professionally good, because it is a supplement, the offer shall be free of charge. It's important to underline. I record that the parties who call the highest on common law do not dare to take this position, but speak unobligatoryly about a common law, without saying anything about what such a law should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e834	I listened with great interest to the comments of the representative. Two of the questions I had intended to ask him, he actually answered in the post, and both answers I am very satisfied with. Firstly, the question of the arts scholarship, where Rikham said that SV will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Right and the Centre parties. I really appreciate that. Furthermore, he clearly stated that SV will not vote for XIII, which required all ‘institutional and faculty leaders to be appointed on a yearly basis’. I also appreciate that very much. In both of these areas, the SV and the Right shoulder are shoulder-to-shoulder, just as the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are both shoulder-to-shoulder. And that's an interesting variation, because it shows that the diversity that everyone wants to be present in higher education is at least present in Norwegian politics. It's positive. The most interesting thing about SV’s position as part of the fundamental issues in this big-scale communication is the issue of equality between private and public institutions. I understand that SV will vote in favour of the proposal to ask the Government to propose a common law for state and private institutions. I think that is very positive. The establishment of the accreditation and evaluation body proposed by the Mjøs Committee will further underline the principle of non-discrimination in terms of evaluation and professional quality. My question is: will this also mean that SV will tend to have consequences for the underlying parts of the education system, secondary education and primary school, and also for gender equality between private and public institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e848	I feel reasonably comfortable standing with the Right in a matter of internal organisation at the higher education level. It doesn't bother me much, I have to admit it. I would have been much more concerned if I – against assumption – were to be in company with the Progress Party about an important social reform, then I would probably start to wonder which way we were going to go. I do not feel that way because the Right and SV agree that the individual institution should be free to choose how to organise the intermediate level. We're the only party that takes the consequences of what we're writing. With regard to our model vis-à-vis the private institutions, it must be quite clear that we are separating layers with the right on a fundamental point, namely that we believe that agreements should be based on agreements. Our model assumes that agreements are reached between the private institution and the state on which offers are to be made as part of the «public offer» and which offers are to be made free of charge to the students as a consequence. It's our model, and it's significantly different from the one that the Right says, that each student should get a certain amount of money so that they can shop around the different institutions. We believe that to be a bad model. I don't see any reason to comment on our position has any consequences for high school and primary school, because there's a completely different situation. We are not talking here about a private elementary school offering anything on behalf of a municipality. The fact that a municipality will enter into an agreement with a private school in order to cover the education offer is totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e857	I have noticed – and I was delighted – that the representative Requamm expressed himself so strongly with respect for the autonomy and professional weight of the higher education institutions. I noticed that it is expressed in the view he has of how one should have the freedom to organize oneself internally. I am then surprised that the representative, Mr Requam, cannot agree with a proposal that the design of the bachelor's degree too can be trusted by the institutions, because the representative, together with the Left, the other centre parties, the Right and the Workers' Party, are in favour of establishing that education should be research-based, it should be based on quality. And is it not that when you build on this, and in addition, the clear signals that have come, among other things. From our universities, do you just have to believe that the freedom they're using will they use to create enough weight? Because what was disturbing about this part of our education system was that you felt that the government would regulate this in such a way that you couldn't make the professional quality you wanted. So my question is, when you have the kind of trust in professional authority and legitimacy that lies in the institutions, and that the representative of Reikvam can be expressed in a commendable way in terms of confidence in the creation of governing bodies, that you have no faith in the design of subjects. For what purpose does it have to be called university or college if you want to create some kind of one – should we call it serial letter courses with small units? The whole point of that kind of institution must be that you trust them with the ability to create something that gives weight and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e862	We have great faith in the institutions in developing subjects. We're going the longest to say that the institutions themselves are going to decide to set up and quit subjects. We're saying this is also going to include master levels. There we don't get the result of the other parties. Our whole arrangement is based on a strong trust in the individual institution. But in one area, I think it's important to hold on to and ensure a professional immersion, and that's within the bachelor's degree. As I said in my introduction, we reduce education time by an average of one year compared to today's cand.mag.-grade. We believe and believe that it is important to hold on to a professional depression. And that means that one of the subjects within this bachelor degree is going to have a depression of at least one year. We're worried about, and we're actually afraid that we can get into a situation where you put a degree in the university with a lot of small units. It's a system that we, among other things. know from colleges. It is then important to maintain that universities require professional immersion for those who receive a degree from the university. This will not limit the freedom of universities to compile degrees. The only thing we demand is that one of the subjects you choose to put together in a bachelor degree should have this professional depression – that is, you can't have a whole lot of small units. It will be possible to have it in addition — at least several small units in addition, but in one of them, the professional immersion should be at least one year. We don't stand alone, we're with the Workers' Party, and it may not have been surprising, but it would have been nice if we had got more on such a proposal, which is really about professional immersion and holding on to it. This, as I said in my introduction, could also have consequences for teacher training. I sincerely hope that university teacher training will not be even more similar to the teacher training we have at the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e873	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e876	The left is based on the fact that quality and knowledge cost. Better follow-up of individual students, higher institutional quality valuation and better student funding require raising financial and human resources. In addition, it requires that we give freedom and trust to students, researchers and other employees. It's just this Stortinget has taken the consequences of our very extensive work on St. report. No 27. Council of State Giske has presented the notification as a quality reform. In fact, a lot of work remained before it could be like this. The challenge of the big business has been to fill the government's government in many ways with a binding and genuine quality reform for higher education. The size has also had to make major changes to replace central detail management with confidence of researchers, professionals and students. My claim is that there must be consistency between the will to reform, the ability to prioritize resources and the belief that the one you give freedom will also take responsibility. Failure to conform can lead to a rapid reduction in the quality of both education and research. Fortunately, in a number of key areas, the Stortinget and the majority of the population have chosen to follow a different course from that of the Council of State Giske set out in its communication. The keywords of this course are simple: more trust, more freedom and more resources to exploit the creative abilities of humans in higher education and research. The majority of the population have ensured that the concept of university is not subject to political discretion, watered down and drained for content. On the contrary, the majority – where the Left is involved – have fixed it as a unanimous Mjøs committee, emphasising that good research environments, regardless of where they are located and what name they bear, should have research support. This means, among other things: universities with doctoral degrees shall have research resources to develop. This applies today to the institutions of Agder, Bodø and Stavanger. The institutions that want university status will not only have a name, as the Council of State seems to believe in its notification. They want to be taken seriously, and outstanding research environments are given the means and opportunities to develop. In order to use an image: to skip height, there has to be a list of height points and no access points to pop-up the list to achieve professional quality. The size has established a national credit and evaluation body, independent of the ministry, as proposed by a joint Mjøs committee. State Council Geske's earlier mockery of their unanimous attitude, where he says that we already have 80,000 controllers, so what we're going to do with 20 more, is demise of a total collapse that understands what this is all about. The Committee is united behind the new degree structure with a lower degree of three years and a higher degree of two years. Combined with new courses of study, longer years of study and more resources for the individual student, I think this as a general rule is a sensible solution. However, there are subjects and educations which require special attention and should not necessarily be shortened. These include, for example, arts with music, civil engineering studies, professional training and teacher training. The Government is clearly informed that the specific nature and quality of these courses should be respected and that all these courses should be re-submitted to the Government. With regard to the freedom of institutions, the majority of the population – against the votes of the Workers' Party and the SV – gives institutions the freedom to shape the new Bachelor's degree. The size also gives institutions the freedom to operate peripheral zones in order to be able to play with their regional employment and business. So we do the job that the message didn't do at this point. The size gives the universities the freedom to have the right to study facilities for up to three years, and gives them the freedom that they did not give. The left wants to go beyond the majority in granting institutions freedom in two respects. First of all, we want to give freedom for some people to try out other ways to organise the institutions. It is disappointing to see how the Workers' Party deliberately overstates this and interprets motives that the Left has never had. For us, it is not appropriate to allow private owners to enter public institutions, universities or state universities. Secondly, we will give the institutions themselves the freedom to decide on internal organisation. I note once again that it is the Progress Party of the Council of State that Gieske must ally with in order to get a majority for its coercive model. The message was alarmingly weak in its invisibility of private colleges. My point of view is that I want a strong public commitment to higher education and research, but I also have no problems realizing that a good school is a good school and a good research environment a good research environment regardless of whether it is private or public. This is not about the privatisation of higher education. It's about equivalency and justice. It is about giving private schools predictability and not being subject to a comprehensive and time-consuming bureaucracy. It is about getting good research environments access to research funding, and it is about getting a common law for all higher education. For the Left, this is obvious and unproblematic. For the government, as the message was posted, this was either too difficult or unimportant. But the Storting has fixed it up. It is high time that the study funding was leveraged. The position of the left is that this needs to be done in a proper way that provides long-term security for those who choose to take higher education. This was the background for the Government of Bondevik setting up the Aamodt Committee, which gave its position on future funding for studies in 1999. If we're going to raise the student funding, it's pointless at the same time to remove the only real basic security of today's student support: the student credit-dependent grant rate of 30 pst. It's actually not that the harder you swing the whip, the more you get people to deliver. Nor do we need fewer people who engage in voluntary work in the course of study, in student policy, in teams and organisations, in student newspapers and in cultural life, or, for that matter, take a little reflection to digest what you want to include in your education. I see that in the last few years, the Workers' Party may have got cold feet over its welfare-policy alliance with the Advance Party, and give some non-committal signals that you may not want to take away the entire basic education anyway, just think about a few more months. I say good luck with the thoughtwork, but the reflection is not deeper than to vote down the obligatory proposal that the Left shares with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Right here today. In the meantime, we hope that the students and other voters will provide a composition of the Stortinget where the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party will not together receive a majority for a lower student funding for four more years. In the case of foreign students, the Left agrees that the fee grant scheme is continued without impairment and that the cost standard to be applied by foreign students is raised proportionately as for Norwegian students. At the same time, as far as the arts education is concerned, we regret that the Labour Party and the Progress Party today refuse to give this handshake to those groups in our country who are entering the risky path of taking this type of education. It's not certain, when you go into this education, that you get something to live on afterwards, but it's quite important that someone takes the chance to apply for the arts. As far as quality reform is concerned, there is part of the reform that the Council of State has so recently wanted to talk as much as possible about, and that is the cost. Calculations by the Council of Universities and Higher Education show that only the university sector will have an extra need in a transitional phase of approximately 400 million. kr per. years for education and about 400 million. SEK for research, and thereafter a permanent increase in the order of 500 million. kr annually compared with today. It is a consequence of the proposals in longer years of study, more individual follow-up and more group education, combined with the need to strengthen, not weaken research efforts. The majority of the population, including the Left, are critical and puzzled that the Government has not made realistic assessments of the resources needed to implement the reform. It is an important achievement of the credibility of education policy that, unlike the Government, the majority of the population dare to talk about these figures, and that an overall committee dares to say clearly that the reform should be followed up with the necessary additional resources for universities and colleges in 2002 and 2003. At the same time, we make it clear that the quality promise for education should not go beyond research. The decision to step up Norwegian research by 2005 shall remain firm, including the decision that a substantial part of the escalation will take place in the basic research environments and higher education institutions. The majority of the population have said that we should do what is necessary to do this in terms of resources, and not least in terms of people. That is why it is very good that a separate recruitment message is now being presented and that the professorship is maintained. In summary, the outcome of the Storting treatment is that the Workers' Party has joined a number of important improvements in addition to what the notification provided: that quality costs, on research recruitment, on common law for public and private colleges, on freedom of edge zone activity, and on getting an independent accreditation body. On other important points – on clear and strict criteria for becoming a university, on professional freedom to make the new Bachelor's degree, on the continuing fairness of foreign students – the Workers' Party and the Government are defeated. With regard to the Workers' Party's alliance with the Progress Party on more use of whips in study funding, there is a clear alternative that loses today, but may not have to lose in the next round. I think the Stortinget, through its treatment of this big message, has significantly increased the chances that we actually get a quality reform that both students, researchers and institutions enjoy. There will also be a reform that will be implemented in accordance with a sound timetable and where resources will follow the reforms. Thus, the Stortinget has done the job that the Council of State and the Government did not do, but that all researchers, professionals and students know is the most important thing. Finally, I would like to comment on Document No. the 8th proposal on the so-called ‘Green University’. The left is involved in the investigation to be carried out, but our opinion is that it is now possible to establish the principle that a power collection should be carried out at Ås, among others. to have a research concentration on absolute everything related to all types of food and to food safety. I know that the impressive genomics programme – FUGE – that is under way is one of the most important measures in our country, because it is research-initiated, and because it represents a dynamic in which the Left believes in the further development of both universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e938	I must honestly admit that I did not understand much of this. The representative Dørum spoke of defeat for the Government and changes in the Stortinget and one with the other. Has he not read the configuration? If he goes through the proposals, he will see that the Government has, at almost all points, been impressed by its quality reform, and that the very most decisions that are being taken today are only directed to the Government to follow up the Labour Party's policy. I guess it's hardly a defeat. Doorroom talked about saving reform. That savings reform I think exists only in the head of Dørum. There has never been talk of neither from the Council of State, from the Government, nor from the Workers' Party that this should be austerity reform. We are willing to spend more money on higher education, as opposed to what the previous government was, where Dørum himself was the Council of State. I have to say it's a little funny to listen to when the representative Dørum explains how much money is needed here, where he relies on this investigation from the UHR – the Council of Universities and Higher Education – which is an estimate, a preliminary calculation. But it assumes that every third student should fail in the studies. What kind of goal is it to have, to which the left joins? Is it the Left's goal with a quality reform that every third student should fail in their studies? So here he has a great faith that since the Council of Higher Education has said so, it must be so. But he doesn't have that on other points. Why is the representative of Dørum opposed to the University and Higher Education Council in terms of how to obtain new universities in Norway? Why does he go against the UHR and the League of Nations and the STL and the NSU in terms of staff of institute managers? Then, all of a sudden, the University and University Council are not good enough to witness the truth of Dørum's policy. I suspect that in Dørum's head it is Dørum who will decide what is best for Norwegian universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e949	I thank you for the visit at the end of the article. One must have been a lifelong member of the Workers' Party in order to think that way, because you think you should decide, if you are given authority from others. In the whole of the left, it's just not like that. We have an accreditation body. It doesn't have the government. We have clear professional criteria for becoming a university, the government doesn't have strict enough. The accreditation body shall decide. It's not a government council's discretion. That's the stinging opposite of those at any time thought I should have in my head. Of course, I think it's sympathetic if I should possibly come back to the Storting by a majority for my party, but I don't think so. First of all, I think that the WCC has included the Workers' Party in a number of clarifications, deepenings and qualifications that are not included in the notification. That deserves to be commended to the Workers' Party. I said the message was unfinished and unclear. The size has done a good job. The representative Norvoll has been involved. But that means the government left us an unfinished product, we had to complete the job. On important points, the Government had to vote down. On other points, it won, for example: with the non-social alliance on study funding. With regard to all the hearing bodies, I have a view based on the fundamental view that universities and colleges should have the most freedom and autonomy possible. So I think it's best for them to decide for themselves how to organize internally. I haven't changed my vision. And as far as the hearing bodies are concerned, the representative Norvoll failed to mention the representative of LO, who gave very strong emphasis to the fact that elections were the best, because it gave professional legitimacy. For my part, it ends up being that the best thing is for the institutions themselves to have freedom to decide, because that is the way they can create things that actually have legitimacy within the structures. So finally, of course, it costs to make a reform. If many of the students who cancel out succeed, it will take something to give them a better education, and that's the price we're willing to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e960	I won't try to compete with the previous replicator in trapezoids! Anyone who reads the opinion of the Committee will see that there are three parties that are broadly united on all the essential points concerning comments and proposals. It's the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. On a number of important points, the Centre Party is also involved, but unfortunately the Centre Party has separated layers with the other two central parties on two points, which we have discussed earlier in the debate. There is one point that I feel the need to ask the representative Dørum to clarify something further. It concerns the Left Document No. Eight proposals on Norway's agricultural high school. The representative Dørum used the expression that also appears in the left's comments in the setting, that one wants to "enter a power collection around NLH". The proposal that has been put forward really puts it all in a very specific context, namely the relocation of Norway's veterinary high school to Ås. It would not surprise neither the representative Dørum nor others that making a proposal of the character of the Stortinget triggers quite strong reactions to the grassroots and to the two institutions affected and which have not been in this picture in advance. It's not the best way to facilitate a good climate. This force collection is justified by reference to the FUGE programme. This makes me even more surprised, because the point of the FUGE programme, which is quite rightly research-initiated, is that all the Norwegian research communities have agreed to create a joint programme, and that programme has nothing to do with mergers, relocations or institutional boundaries. It is a voluntary cooperation project and how it can justify this Document No. The 8 proposal, it's a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e971	So riddles are there to explain. The point of the FUGE programme is that you raise your eye to Norwegian research and take inward all that is related to functional genome research, and in that way you say that this is important for our country. On this basis, the Left is concerned with what is now in all the research institutes at the Agricultural College on food and food safety, and in this context, of course, the veterinary side of the case. We've been around the world, looking at how to co-locate these units in order to get synergies on the research side – perhaps much less on the education side. That is the background for us to promote the proposal. I also helped to promote the proposal for a completely different reason. Despite the personal, strong commitment of the representative Evjes to veterinary medicine, this whole discipline and this subject have, in my opinion, been neglected. It has at least been neglected in many of my own debates. I think that the entire field deserves to be lifted, and deserves to experience that the ambitions around the field will be respected. I feel that the committee by making a wide-ranging investigation, actually adds up to it. I feel that the case rapporteur provided it in his explanatory statement. So in that way, I have achieved an important purpose, namely to lift a small but very important environment into a larger context, and not let it be forgotten in the practical political everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e982	The representative Dørum took up a strong public engagement in higher education, not snuff privatisation, the foreign students were going to get what they had today, neither more nor less, and the students at BI were going to cover the entire 50 pst. of their school money. These are noble thoughts, but can hardly be called especially border-bombing. Then he took up the art subject, the establishment grant rather said, as the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have come to an agreement on, and thought this was a worse idea than his own proposal, and that he is entitled to believe. But now it's actually once that students in the arts field have the same rights as all other students. In our opinion, the problems of this specific group are only apparent when they have completed their education and have to establish themselves in a self-employment that they create, they have to build up a name, and they have to build up a clientele. That's why it's been our overall principle view to give a real handshake to achieve just this, because they have the same rights. However, what is a little remarkable about the strong commitment to the Mjøs Committee is that his and other parties – where we are not in it – go beyond the clear recommendation of the Mjøs Committee to organise higher education in special-law companies, and put it under the same coercion as the Mjøs Committee tried to remove it. I would like this to be a little bit more detailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e992	With regard to the issue of fee grants, it is quite clear that the Progress Party has a different model from that of the Left. For us, it was absolutely essential that the foreign students should know that the rules of the game they have now been able to fight for equality were to be secured. It is also for the representative Evje to ensure that this is supported by means of subsidiary support. I know that first of all, there was a struggle to get its proportional share of the rise in the cost standard, which the Labour Party has not set up, and then it had as a principle the fact that there are different costs in the different educational countries, with different school fees. Then we can disagree on how frontier-breaking it is, but it is at least security-creating for those who have entered this landscape. As far as the arts are concerned, the left's view is the same, and we share it with others: when you first apply for an education where you're not sure where you end up afterwards, you take a risk. I think it's good that young people dare to take a risk, but I think it's very important that that risk should not initially be managed either by the economy or by other opportunities to do it. This is why the degree in art at the educational stage is crucial. And even if you get that scholarship, you don't know what happens later, but you know that you get a recruiting of talents, and that the talents aren't sorted on a social, economical basis. This is why Norwegian cultural organisations, artists’ organisations and students themselves have chosen to concentrate their proposal on some of the most vulnerable education in the arts and crafts sector. And that is also the reason why the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Right, is on a proposal that we also understand that the SV subsidiaryly supports. As far as general organisation is concerned, I would just like to point out briefly that we are open for some to experiment with forms other than the administrative model, but I then clarified – and that is where we distinguish ourselves from the Progress Party – that we do not want universities or state universities in Norway to be owned by anyone other than the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1010	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1013	In the setting, the Government gets a pass for almost all of its proposals. There are proposals relating to new degrees, shorter studies, closer follow-up, better use of the academic year, better funding for studies, greater freedom, consistent management. All of this will lead to the success of more students in their studies. That's kind of the main objective of the whole message. Then it becomes a bit polite when the representative Wohnung makes this governance a difficult debate and believes that it must be ideologically justified what kind of governance one chooses, whether it be universities or hospitals, which he draws into this. It is clear that here the representative is Wage on relatively wild roads. They want to open up trials with special-law companies, and they want to open up private owners to institutions. This should therefore be experimental arrangements. Can anyone explain to me how every day you can have private owners inside as a trial plan? What to do when the experiment is over? It's quite obvious that there's a path that can only lead in one direction, and there's things that can't be reversed at all. One of the few points where the government doesn't get through is what goes on in new universities. I just have to comment briefly. When we want to welcome new universities, it is because we want more research and better research in Norway. It's our driving force. In fact, I think running and counting doctoral degrees at best can have academic interest. Why in all days should there be four doctoral degrees? What's wrong with three? What's wrong with the number five? Why does it have to be five degrees? What's wrong with three? What's wrong with seven? There's no principle attitude to this. The important thing is that we have to be willing to take action so that in this case Stavanger, Agder and Bodø will be able to evolve into universities. That we want to do that -- we will, but I'm a little bit more doubtful to the majority here. Then you talk about it because of the quality that you want to have other criteria. Yeah, but the quality must be there. And at least the center must think that the quality is there. Since their government granted these institutions the right to award a doctorate, they must have thought that they were at a relatively high quality level. Then I have to say that when I have heard some of the contributions here, I am told about the debate on study funding, when we are making what is being done now, as a «catastrophe» for Norwegian study funding. It can not be a disaster that students in a five-year course get NOK 55,000 more in scholarships, or NOK 35,000 if they are late! It can't be a disaster. After all, the disaster must be if the Right’s policy is going through, that the grant share should be only 30 pst., as is stated in the Inge Wage Survey. And the disaster that has really happened, that's the policy that the central government has pursued over the past two and a half years the government. It was these parties that stood up in the election campaign and promised to increase scholarships, and threw blues in the eyes of the students. But they didn't increase. They didn't go from 30 pst, they didn't fulfill their promises. That's what's the disaster -- that's what's cost Norwegian students tens of thousands of dollars, that's not the central government in its time followed its own promises. I see that there are more from the management of the student organisations who are present at the gallery. It would have been interesting if either Dørum, Lyngstad or Scarbøvik, or others from the center, could come up here and say, "I'm sorry!" I'm sorry we threw blues in your eyes, I'm sorry we said we should increase the scholarship without saying that! It would have been an interesting exercise, if they could come up here and say, "Sorry, we just said it to get votes." And then they got the votes, but they didn't do their part of the job. They didn't mean it. This does not make for good study policy, and this does not increase respect for politicians. What stands out now is that the Workers' Party delivers the goods. We're now increasing the scholarship by 1 000 kroner a month. It is the largest increase that has ever been in Norwegian study funding. The centre is of course forced, they will not vote against when the proposal comes first from the Workers' Party. But I have to say that with the experience we have with the central government and their student finance policy, I think the safest thing we can do is leave to the Council of State Giske and the Labour Party Government to implement the change in the Norwegian study funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1032	Since the Coastal Party is not represented in the Committee, it is a little important for us to agree with the policy that we support, and then we will indicate that we support all the comments that are on the Right, and we will vote with the Right on all the points in this setting. Because, of course, the university community is so lucky that they have a competent person here in Stortinget. Had all the areas of competence in Norway that depend on the budget been as closely represented as the university environment is with the weight of the representative of Wage in the Education Committee, then there was a bright future for the development of competence in Norway. It is a joyous day for the universities in Stavanger, Kristiansand and Bodø, which today get a clear signal that they can develop to become universities, and that university status is not far away. We're happy about that. At the same time, we are pleased that the value of the university concept is maintained by making strict demands on professional content. It is also a precaution to know that Norwegian research environments are to be secured an economic muscle that allows Norwegian knowledge to be maintained at the level necessary in the knowledge society of tomorrow. Study funding has been mentioned in this debate. For us, it is important to stress that universities and colleges are not only institutions to educate specialised people, but with the course of study, there should also be an opportunity for a total education that allows students to participate in activities that enrich their course of study without being directly examination oriented. With the funding mechanism proposed by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, such unexplained completion of education will be virtually impossible. It would also be very worrying if the students were to go into a study with an uncertainty as to what this study would actually cost, as it would be according to the model of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. Some people would get an economic hit that they were not prepared for – others might not dare to take up a study, just because they feared the economic backlog. It is therefore of great importance that a party that seems to be sailing in such a large co-wind that they can secure a majority of funding at next year's budget is in favour of a funding model that ensures the complete range of studies, which gives us an opportunity to train students who are not only narrowly professional but who have an opportunity for a wider range that is not examination-related. I am also pleased that our foreign students are to be guaranteed a proper funding opportunity. Given that knowledge is tomorrow's capital, today's students must not depend on the capital of the parent regeneration to secure the knowledge that will bring them into tomorrow. It is an objective that those who want to do so and who are earned from their choice of studies for a stay abroad are given equivalent opportunities through a study funding that ensures this. Finally, a few words about the arts scholarship. Artists do not have the guaranteed job protection that very many other students have when they come from their studies. We in the Coastal Party believe it is important that we ensure high-level art education, and that the students who choose a future in the arts come out of their studies without being hampered by a student debt that they may not be able to meet in the competition market for artistic tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1050	Both the study and labour markets are highly internationalised today. The 1999–2000 study year was 14 500 Norwegian students abroad, of whom 10,000 were full-time students. For many years Norway has built up a relatively good offer for Norwegian students who want to take all or part of their education abroad. In a society characterised by increasing cross-border interactions, broad skills building is important. It was therefore surprising that the Government wanted to reduce support for school money for students abroad, which has always been a well-functioning strategy for internationalisation in the education sector. The government is also committed to removing the security network of foreign students in the form of currency adjustment. The size has previously determined that it is the State Loan Fund for Education to be charged or profited from fluctuations in exchange rates. We are pleased that this has now been taken care of by the majority. The Christian People's Party wants the increase in the cost norm to be proportionately the same for foreign students as for Norwegian students. The Ministry proposes to amend the schemes in support of fees grants in order to redeploy some of the funds to strengthen the internationalisation strategies of Norwegian universities and universities. The Christian People's Party believes that the fee grant scheme works well with today's model. At the same time, we would stress that it must be possible for institutions to become more international, while providing for good exchange arrangements for students. This requires increased resources for institutions to ensure their need for internationalisation. The new degree structure aims to promote the learning of students, but also to increase international student mobility. Both the tremors and the study models will undoubtedly lead to increased understanding and mobility internationally. With a new character system, one will also be able to better compare weights between institutions in the home and abroad, and one will be able to communicate better with a world outside Norway. It is also necessary to provide better facilities for foreign students at Norwegian educational institutions and to stimulate the exchange of researchers and students. Cooperation agreements with foreign universities should therefore be a natural part of other activities. This may also make institutions more attractive to foreign students and researchers. We agree with the Ministry that it is important that universities and colleges continue to build up a vocational offer in English for both Norwegian and foreign students. Professional environments can contribute to a more active student exchange by encouraging students to participate in boarding schemes in different international organisations. For years, Norwegian universities and colleges have cooperated with institutions in developing countries, and we regard this as a central area. In this context, it is important to emphasise that this cooperation is very positive, also for the content of Norwegian education services. We support the Government's intention to link the educational institutions closer to the student exchange. Quality assurance for the institutions is also a guarantee that students receive a full training experience. The government's decision to remove the arts scholarship weakens all the objectives of financing higher education. In addition, this is contrary to the intention of all previous credit statements on study funding. The creation of higher education schools as a separate indent of the Law on Universities and Higher Education was a recognition that higher education of art differs substantially from other higher education. This suggests that art students represent ‘a group with special needs’ also in terms of funding for studies. The current grant scheme should be retained to provide artists with reasonable training conditions. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the majority did not find it appropriate to maintain the art scholarship of visual artists, ballet artists and artisans – the groups that serve at least their artistic work. Students at the BI School of Business today pay tuition fees and do not receive any kind of fee grant from the State Debt Fund for Education. We are therefore in favour of granting full-time students BI partial coverage of the tuition fee through grants from the loan fund and want this further investigated. The Christian People's Party has been committed to establishing a Centre for Peace Education at the University of Tromsø. We are pleased that the Committee now unanimously supports this. Tromsø has been the leader in this field, and last May a peace training conference was held in Tromsø. They have the database, an international network and competent people to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1080	Norwegian education policy shall be based on broad objectives. Education shall contribute to personal development and social cohesion, strengthen democratic values, cultivate and connect society and stimulate innovation, productivity and economic growth. These objectives form the basis of the Government’s quality reform for higher education. The ambition is that Norway will become a leading knowledge nation. Education has gone from being an elite phenomenon to becoming a mass phenomenon. In 1988 there were less than 100,000 students, now there are more than 190 000 students. More than half of the school years now go into higher education, and more and more people are coming back to fill their skills later in life. This is a positive development. It gives the individual increased possibilities for life development. This gives Norway good conditions for a high level of well-being, greater social and economic equality and high levels of employment. For the Workers' Party, a fair education policy is the key to a fair society. Equal rights to education is a fundamental fair objective. All shall have access to equivalent training provision — irrespective of their place of residence and economic situation — and the provision of training must be adapted to different needs. In higher education, we have succeeded in rapidly expanding our capacity. We have also succeeded in obtaining a good geographical distribution of educational provision. However, we have major challenges in facilitating participation for groups currently underrepresented in higher education. There is also a great disparity between genders in the education system. These biases violate the important principle of equal opportunities for all. There is also a poor use of society's resources, which is why we need an offensive gender equality policy in higher education. I think our education system tolerates international comparison. Nevertheless, it is clear that our universities and colleges can improve. Study intensity is too low. Time-use studies show that students use, on average, less than 30 hours per person. the week of the studies, and many subjects benefit from the year of study too poorly. The result is weak throughput and high school dropouts. For some main courses, the average age is well over 30 years when the students are finished. Universities and colleges shall be spearheads into the knowledge society. To fulfil their role, they need to be resource-intensive and robust organisations, and they need to have high ambitions. They must have the will and ability to change in order to meet society's demands. They must be internationally leading and must play their role in the competence society in terms of quality. They need to adapt to new student groups with new needs for organisational and substantive adaptation of the studies. These challenges must be addressed by the institutions themselves. They have to provide framework conditions that enable them to do the task. I am pleased that the reform we have now put forward and have been approved can contribute to this. I note that most of the main features of the quality reform have been endorsed in Stortinget. We are implementing the greatest promise of history in study funding. The most crucial thing for students' ability to study full-time is what you have to live for while you're a student. That is why we are proposing to increase education aid by NOK 12 450 per year. academic year to NOK 80 000. The increase shall be largely granted as a scholarship. This provides an opportunity to be a full-time student without an increase in the debt of completed studies. This promise has been widely supported in Stortinget, and I am pleased about that. I also hope that we will receive the same support when we implement the increase. Then we have proposed that there should be a link between the award of scholarships and the completion of studies. I'm also glad that, so to speak, all the parties in Stortinget support such a relationship. There are different views on how much of the grant will be related to the implementation of the study, but the principle has very broad support. All, including those who have been delayed in the studies, will receive more in scholarships with the Government's proposals. But the government's goal has been to give an extra reward to those who actually conduct the studies. In our view, it is wrong to have a system where it is possible to get 160 000 kroner in paid support, hence, with a new grant, 62 000 kroner to no part and ownership, without having ever set foot in an educational institution. That's the system as it is today. There will be the system of central and right proposals in the Stortinget. I am glad that we have received support that it should not still be so. There has to be a connection between getting educational support and studying. I think there are a lot of people in Norway who would agree that there should be a connection between getting paid to be a student and being a student and conducting the studies. We will also look into whether part of the scholarship can be given independently of the completion of the study, that one passes the subject, but a clear requirement must be that it should go to those who are actually studying. To clarify a misunderstanding, the requirement for scholarships is not to conduct the studies at a standard time. On the contrary, time doesn't matter. You get NOK 31,000 in scholarships regardless of whether you spend one, three, five or seven years taking a course. Those who are delayed also get more in scholarships. That is why everyone will benefit from the reform. One who takes a five-year master's degree course will receive a grant of NOK 155 000 with the new proposal. That means you get $55,000 more compared to today, if you do it in five years, and you get $35,000 more than today if you do it in six years. Also those who are delayed will get more in scholarships. How it can be produced as a disaster for the students is very difficult for me to understand. Students shall be assured of increased quality in teaching and of a better financial framework for conducting the studies. That's a high ambition. Both institutions and students must have clear rights and obligations in relation to each other. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget also supports the main commitment of the reform, a better quality of study. Better follow-up of students, student-active forms of teaching and evaluation throughout the year will provide students with a better offer. After all, this is what at the end of the seventh year will ensure that students receive a good education, that they actually learn something, that they go out of the study period with an increased level of competence that they need in their professional life. It is also this that enables students to complete the studies, and that they can pass the subjects and get a proper follow-up and evaluation throughout the academic year. It also means that they get faster through reducing the debt burden because they are not delayed and increasing the cost of living because they get out of work earlier. I see that some people are worried that this means that if you cancel as a student, you get an increase in debt, and you get a lower income. That's what you're getting today. Today, too, if you take another year, you get $50,000 more in debt and you get lower income, because you lose a year's income, maybe a total loss of $20,000. The most important thing here is that those who teach and follow up the students, early in the academic year, can see who has problems, and give them a better follow-up and thus ensure that several pass their studies. That's what's the real promise here, which will also benefit the students' economy considerably. It is important that the quality of studies and new forms of evaluation are linked in the reform. It will not be appropriate to introduce scholarships depending on completed studies until the changes in study quality and changes in evaluation forms are in place. It has to be in place first. It can't be that you're sitting on a June day with an eight-hour exam with both 20 weights and a lot of money in the pot. There has to be a relationship between the two things. One must be in place before the other can be introduced. In the vote there is unanimous support for the proposal to introduce a new degree structure. I now register that the Coastal Party also supports it, and then we have it clear. It's all the parties that join this point, even though there may be individual representatives from the academy who have been most obedient to the contrary. Unfortunately, the Centre, Right and Advance would not be involved in the ambition that a Bachelor's degree should have the same quality as today's Cand. Mag.-grad. I think that's a pity, but I still want to work after that ambition when we're going to implement the changes in higher education. There is also a majority to introduce a new funding model for universities and universities that reward quality in education and research. However, we have not been in favour of pure price financing as proposed by the Mjøs Committee. It would, in the government's view, be harmful to small trade unions. It would be detrimental to the predictability of institutions, and it would also be harmful for professional environments that it has taken years or perhaps decades to build and that could be demolished in a few years with perhaps temporarily low student access. That's why I'm glad that the majority of the Biggest adheres to our funding model principles. The Ministry is working on the final design in close cooperation with the university and higher education sectors. The government will come back to the specification of the content of the funding model in the context of proposals for the 2002 government budget. For the Government, it is also important that a majority of the Committee joins the organisation of universities and colleges which state that they are not to be regarded as commercial services and which facilitate the maintenance of public responsibility for ensuring equivalent and good training. There is a deep distinction between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on the one hand, and the Right Party and the Advance Party on the other hand in the vision of our universities and colleges. The majority emphasise that these are public cultural and social institutions, while the Right and Advance Party open up to private owners in our universities and colleges. Institutions shall conduct long-term discipline and fundamental research without immediate economic gain. Private universities and colleges will depend on selling their services. Of course, this will lead to a change in profile. It is only a state responsibility and ownership that can take care of a wide range of subjects in higher education and research. I also wonder how private ownership will ensure the free and critical position that is a central part of the social mandate for universities and colleges. Private ownership will also undermine the ability to achieve the objective of equal rights to education. For me, it is a paradox that parties which are very concerned that the public, the people through the ministry and the magnificence, should lead the educational institutions seem to be quite fine with private owners – with the bonds, demands for dividends, professional focus, etc. which it will entail. The governance model proposed for universities and colleges is also endorsed by a majority of the Committee. There is support for the selection of the principal, but it is open to pilot schemes. There is support for the proposal on the composition of the Management Board, where no individual groups are given a majority on their own. There is support for better professional management by employing institute directors and deaners on a yearly basis, as supported by both the University and Higher Education Council, the Research Association and the student organisations. The size makes some changes to the notification’s proposal, to which the Workers’ Party subscribes. The Communication proposed that the Norwegian Network Council be strengthened as an accreditation and quality assurance body and that its own governance, organisation and mandate be given accordingly. The central feature of the Government has been the establishment of quality assurance and quality development schemes which ensure the reputation of Norwegian education, which contribute to the efficient use of public resources and which ensure students’ quality in the study offerings. Accreditation and quality assurance of study services must not lead to the creation of a large educational bureaucracy. Universities and higher education institutions should be primarily responsible for the quality of their courses. The Committee supports that view, but considers that, instead of the Norwegian Network Council being reorganised and having its own Governing Board in order to carry out this task, a different body with its own Governing Board should be set up to carry out that task. I do not see this as a crucially different proposal from the big message, and I think it is a proposal with which it is good to live. A unanimous committee asks the Government to facilitate universities and colleges to have powers to organise peripheral zone activities in line with the proposal of the Mjøs Committee. It must be seen in the context of the Committee's agreement with the Government's proposal that universities and higher education institutions remain administrative bodies. Therefore, the creation of a limited liability company will continue to be the State, at the Council of State or the Government, which will be the owner of those shares and which will ultimately be responsible for the exercise of that ownership role. The form of ownership sets natural limits for the creation of companies. Without that reservation, the conclusion of the Committee is in line with that proposed by the Government. A broad majority of the Committee asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with questions about the possible conversion of vocational training and some other training. The Communication suggests that education should not, of course, be pushed into inappropriate patterns. The Ministry has already established cooperation with the University and Higher Education Council on these issues. It is natural for such assessments to be made in close cooperation with universities and colleges. That's why in St.meld. No 27 announced that the department will come back to Stortinget with a more detailed assessment. A unanimous committee asks the Government to draft a proposal for a common law for State and private institutions in higher education. In order to implement the quality reform, as required by a majority of the Committee, there is a need to make rapid proposals for amendments to the existing Law on Higher Education. Work on a completely new, common law for state and private institutions will be a process that must take some more time. This work must therefore be done in two steps. I believe that the proposal of the majority committee on university designation criteria is not the best solution. I am concerned that the proposal leads to higher education giving priority to more doctoral education at the expense of resources for other parts of higher education activities, which might have given a more balanced strategic development. In particular, it will take many years and will require resources for the higher education institutions in Agder, Stavanger and Bodø to meet the criteria for university designation proposed by the majority. I note that an overwhelming majority of the University and Higher Education Council, a majority of both universities and colleges, supported the Government's proposal for a university model. I also record that the attempt to meet some parties and find an intermediate solution did not lead to this either. It's a shame the Stortinget doesn't join the University and Higher Education Council and the Government's proposal for a model. In the setting that the Government has set up in St.meld, the Committee number writes. No 27 far on the way appears to be austerity reform. It refers to the chapter on economic and administrative consequences and even signals that the reform should release resources for other societal purposes. The concern at this point must be a misunderstanding. I point out that the University and Higher Education Council, in its material to the Committee, also points out that the reform has a socio-economic benefit. They link this benefit to the fact that shorter courses of study and better flow will increase the number of candidates available on the labour market, that the quality of candidates will increase, that more people will succeed in their studies and that they will be better able to find a solution to their study situation. These benefits lie in the release of resources for other societal purposes of the quality reform, not in taking money from the university and higher education sectors and transferring it to other sectors, as some have produced in the media. I find it hard to understand that someone can go against investing in study funding and quality, so that these societal benefits can be triggered. The main message has made it clear that the proposals for better follow-up of students require greater resources for universities and colleges. We need more money per person. students to provide better study quality and follow-up. We need a strong stepping up of research, where universities and colleges get a significant share. And we have to let the institutions have greater freedom to use their resources better. The majority of the committees refer to calculations by the Council of Universities and Higher Education on the cost of reform. I think it's a constructive input, but I disagree with the University and Higher Education Council's assumption that the future's full-time students will give 13-14 weights per. years. It corresponds to the fact that every third student has to cancel or not take the exam each year or that the average student will spend about four and a half years on taking a Bachelor's degree that is normed to three years. I believe that we should have far higher ambitions with the reforms we are going to implement. The Storting Communication represents the greatest commitment made in the study funding. The cost of that is NOK 1.3 billion. The notification contains an undertaking to introduce what other parties have promised, but not implemented, which they did not have until the time when they themselves were put into government. For students, the most important thing is how much money they get, not how much money they're allowed to get. In order to achieve the objectives, St.meld. No 27 a broad, combined grip. This reform is based on extensive work involving a large number of environments. Both the Mjøs range and the Aamodt range have provided extensive settings. In the evaluations of these, we have received some 250 hearings. I note that there is broad support for the goal of improving the quality of education. In the light of the consultation opinions, we have also made significant changes to the proposals of the Mjøs Committee and have received support from the Stortinget. Discussions in the press and elsewhere have widened the scope of views when it comes to the choice of instruments to achieve the objective. I think that's good, and it should only be lacking when we know that there are more than 20,000 enlisted students at universities and colleges and more than 190 000 students in Norway. There is a great deal of attention in society in the university and higher education sectors. It is an important sector that is now to be reformed. I am pleased to note that the representative bodies – both student organisations, the University and Higher Education Council, the Research Association and the Working Life Organisations – support most of the proposals in the quality reform. I am also pleased that the Stortinge joins the main features of the reform. The proposals in St.meld. No 27 is a major educational reform that provides the strategy for universities and higher education institutions to educate the knowledge-rich, creative and resilient people that Norway needs. Although I do not agree with all the recommendations made by the majority of the Committee, I am pleased that the Committee endorses the main features of the Single European Act. It provides a good basis for further work on quality reform. We're going to spend more resources on research and education. We're going to make sure that more people get the opportunity to take education. We're going to make sure that our educational and research institutions are better exploited. We're going to make sure Norway is a leading knowledge nation. The attitude makes a good contribution to achieving the Government's goal of succeeding in the transition to the community of competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1171	I listened with interest to a committed Council of State for a reform for which he has a great commitment. When the state council presented its main message, he called it a policy document. I agree that the Communication sets out principles in which the specific design needs to be further elaborated. An example of this is the financial instruments. It also means that the communication is incomplete on several points, and where I believe that the committee has done a job to get a step further. In the committee's work, I have experienced a thoughtful case rapporteur from the Council of State's own party who has chosen to draw partially different conclusions on more points than the notification has made. In the last few days — including in this article — the Council of State has tried to present the Committee's opinion as minor adjustments to the notification. The same production also gives the representative Norvoll here today. That is enough to point out: the Council of State would not have an independent accreditation and evaluation body. The majority here are in favour of a more stringent quality requirement for newer universities. The criteria for the selection of the meat are lowered. Colleges get to set up and shut down subjects that have a duration of up to three years, and not two years, as the Council of State wanted, and we also get a common law for private and public institutions. So the size has done its job. Now it also seems that the Council of State is in doubt about the model of study funding. Gieske said in his post that everyone gets a scholarship regardless of how long it takes. Then I just want to remind you of the following: it's a time limit, and there's also a budgetary premise that you're going to have a study process to free up resources. I now experience that the Council of State talks out the progress requirement, and then my question is to the Council of State: When does the investigation about this point come?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1184	Some have been very busy running to the press with various defeats for both the Council of State and the Workers' Party, and have even been so eager that they have gone to the newspaper with things that have just been proven to be punctuated by the majority in the Committee. I'm not so concerned with defeats or victories, I'm busy finding good solutions for students, researchers and institutions. That's the goal. And if the Christian People's Party has good suggestions and contributions to how this can be done even better, nothing is better than that. With regard to the accreditation body, we propose in the communication – it says on page 53 – that the Norwegian Network Council be reorganised, given its own board of directors and responsible for that work. The majority of the Storting will not join, but will have another body that will have its own board of directors and responsibility for that work. There's a difference between that, but not a decisive difference. The most important thing for us was not to create a new education bureaucracy, and that the primary responsibility for quality should lie with the institutions. And there we stand together with the Christian People's Party. In the case of scholarships, there is no time limit. The time limit in the study funding that is there today and that continues is that you cannot have money paid, either for loans or scholarships, to live for more than one year late. As far as I am concerned, the committee agrees on this. At least no one has proposed any changes to it. But both scholarships and loans and everything are to be paid in the same way as before. So there's a question about the discount: how much of this is going to be a loan, and how much is going to be a scholarship? It doesn't even matter to the students until you start paying. That's when you notice – and I guess some people have every experience with – how much you have actually borrowed, or how little you have received in scholarships. And then it doesn't matter if you take that basic course in one or two or five or ten years. When you take that basic subject, or you get the 20 weights or the 60 study credits, you get your loan rewritten as a scholarship, you get it subtracted. There is not the time limit that lies in the one year delay in today's model, so if I have clarified some things there that make the Christian People's Party want to change its point of view, it is of course very welcome. I intend to come back with a detailed description of the model in the State budget for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1200	I am pleased to note that the Council of State has followed the line proposed by Luther in the explanation of the Small Catechism: Apologize, speak well and take everything in the best sense – and present it in such a way that all the quite significant changes and partly quite drastic changes that have taken place through committee treatment are really in line with what the Council of State has always thought. It's positive that you take it that way. On two points I would like to ask: is this main point also applicable to the section written by a unanimous committee on the principles of non-discrimination between private and public institutions? I quote from page 29 of the setting: ‘The Committee agrees that private higher education institutions should comply with the common law on state universities and higher education institutions based on the principle of the most co-ordinated and transparent legislation.’ Reference is also made to the Bologna Declaration, which obliges Norway to do the same. Does this mean that there was no trace of these principles in the preparation of the Storing Message? The previous profiled Minister of Education from the Workers' Party, Gudmund Hernes, went in time to ensure that there would be no more than four universities in Norway, and he held on to it, with a principleal justification. In the big news there was a free hand job, which was not investigated by anyone, who would open up the possibility that all the scientific colleges could become universities, i.e. abolish the category of scientific colleges, and that all colleges with doctoral degrees should have the same status. It probably also means BI and the Faculty of Education. It would have given us a two-digit number of universities overnight. Is it the reality in Norway that has changed so dramatically from Gudmund Hernes to Trond Giske that the Workers' Party will now suddenly go for a freestyle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1214	To take the first place, equality between private and public universities: I have no problem with the comment that a unanimous committee has made, because I understand from the rest of the position that this is not about an economic equality in the way that Right wants, that is, a single price financing, where it doesn't matter whether a university or a private college – the money should follow the students. Here is still the funding system that we have today in relation to private and public universities and universities. Nor is it a question of professional equality, because it is clear from the decision that the Stortinget will take later today that it is the public schools that will have the right to set up three-year studies. There's nothing about the privates. So I don't have any problems supporting the equivalence that's in that comment from the committee. Private colleges do an important job, although we cannot give them free access to public budgets by saying that half or part of the school money is to be paid by the public, however, because then you would have an unlimited drop in relation to the university's ability to collect money from public budgets. It's strange that a part that goes in the right for a model like that. As far as the university model is concerned, I registered that when the Board of Directors of the University and Higher Education Council dealt with the model proposed by the Government, the free-hand approach, as the representative of the Wage Committee calls it, along with the proposal of the Mjøs Committee, only one vote was given to the proposal of the Mjøs Committee. I then registered that the sample manager, sir. Mjøs, in Dagbladet, wrote that he expected this until the University and University Council representatives had met. Yes, it was a meeting. There were out of 75 in attendance 9 who supported the proposal of the Mjøs Committee against the Government's proposal. So in the sector itself, there is a broad support for the free-hand approach, as the representative for wages calls it. It's a shame the Storing couldn't join it too. That the Agricultural University of Ås had been called the Agricultural University of Ås instead, I don't think it had had a decisive dramatic effect on our four classical latitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1223	Fair education policy in a fair society, yes, it's a bit of a vision. But the Council of State dismayes me when he again from the pulpit of the Storting emphasizes that it is more important who owns the institution, who owns the organisational framework measures, than the qualitative production that takes place within this foundation. Good quality and faster flow deliver significant socio-economic benefits. Our institutions, not least the research institutions, have a great need for new people, highly educated. And business needs may also be met through a faster flow. Institutions continue to serve on a three-part funding model and will increase their performance through faster flow and higher quality. The community, you and I, earn incredible sums to increase the flow, in the form of very large total tax revenue. The Normann Committee, set up by a civil government, just demonstrated these conditions, showed that rapid flow gave huge sums of money back only in the form of tax receipts. That is why our proposal to equalise instalments and interest rates after completion of the study becomes interesting, and the cost of the proposal does not in any way become insurmountable. On this basis, I would like to ask the following questions: is it possible that the Workers' Party and the Council of State will have this increased value creation to the Treasury and will not in any way bring it back to the institution of new development?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1232	It is clear that the increased value creation that we can bring about these reforms should also be brought back to the sector to a significant extent. It is precisely by increasing investment in education quality, increasing investment in study funding and increasing investment in research that we can get institutions that are able to get students faster through without unnecessary delays and with the professional weight they are going to have. It can free up a lot of labour, which is the scarcest resource in our economy, and make us actually get produced more and also get a profit that we can channel back to the university and higher education sectors. It's the positive circle that we've been talking about all along, and that some have been described as a savings reform – understand it as the one that can. So for this, the deduction is going to be deductible. Where does the Progress Party take all the money from, they have a Sarepta pot that's just emptying out? We know that the various tax and tax reliefs that they have previously proposed, which are already there, are equivalent to NOK 100 billion, and then this comes to the top. We will soon have to get a clear answer on where all this money is to be taken from, because I think, unfortunately, that the consequences of the cuts that will result from all of this are not going to be particularly pleasant for them. So, about private owners. Yeah, it plays a role who owns colleges and colleges. It plays a role whose universities and colleges are to be broad social institutions, if they are to be cultural institutions which, irrespective of economic and market objectives, are to play a role in a cultural nation and if they are to have the opportunity to be a critical advocate of their owners and participate in the political debate on society. If we get private owners in, as the Right and Advance Party propose, it is clear that they will be able to make demands for professional orientation, profit requirements, requirements for economic efficiency and also requirements for devices for a market, which will significantly harm the social institutions such as universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1241	It is probably not too hard to say that the Council of State, Giske, has had a relatively high cigarette intake in this case, both in the preparation and presentation of St.meld. No 27. It has resulted in a great deal of commitment and much noise, plus many newspaper articles, both in terms of professional content and economic calculations, or perhaps lack of such, in the notification. The Council of State said instead that a detailed description of the calculation model will be included in the State budget. In fact, Stortinget knows today only that study funding will cost SEK 1.3 billion. Governments have called the notification a quality reform. It is bold when at the same time in the message, on page 78, second column, it says: ‘The proposals for a new funding model for universities and higher education institutions may be implemented within the existing budgetary framework.’;» This was presented on 9 March, before the revised national budget was presented. We now know that the Storting has added to significant sums, a total of 100 million. kr, in this sector. It's not small money. How can the Council of States defend the adequacy of existing frameworks when we know how precarious the economic situation is with many of the institutions? So finally, what about the efficiency of this message and the council, when he instead said that a student could spend as long as he wanted and still get a scholarship?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1255	Regarding the last question, I imagine a model, and it is also described in the message, where a loan is rewritten as a grant when a student conducts a study of 20 weights. There's no time limit on it. In addition, we have said that we want to look at the possibility of getting part of the scholarship firm, but then it must be a prerequisite for having completed a study — perhaps failed, but completed it. I don't understand how to defend a scholarship model where people can get NOK 31,000 a year without being a student. I think it is fundamentally unfair in relation to all the other political objectives we have where we lack money, among other things. in the health sector, in education and in other fields. I think it is unfair to the full-time students that it should be possible to provide the same box without being a student. I cannot understand and understand that it is possible to defend and keep a model where it is still possible to abuse the scheme in such a way. If we can make a model where we both ensure full-time students a real offer and also take care of those who are full-time students, but who fail in the study, we have a perfect system, and that should be the goal. But the proposal that the central parties and the right stand for is at least far from perfect. And it would have been less perfect if the Right had been able to get a pass on its primary position, namely that the grant rate would be 30 p.m., and that the grant should be cut if the students did not follow normal time, as stated in the document from the representative Wohnung in February – four months later there is something else, so it's going to be exciting to see what it is about in new four months. Then we come back in the budget to how to implement the study funding, but the most important thing is that we actually implement it. I remember with horror, for example. a similar debate four years ago, prior to the 1997 Grand elections, including: The centre party promised SEK 5.1 billion more for transportation – that was SEK 10 million. kr. It would take 510 years for us to get up to the level promised before the election. If there is one thing Norwegian students don't have time for, then it's 510 years to wait for us to implement the changes that are most intrusive both in terms of student funding and the quality of the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1262	This was an intrusion with a great commitment, and not least was the great word that passed through the hall. It's obvious that there's a big message we're dealing with, and not the budget. This is the greatest promise of history – equal to the right to education, we have to be a knowledge nation, etc. The fact that this is referred to as the greatest promise of history, I assume it is because of historylessness – at best it is because of it. The council says we're going to have a system that doesn't sponsor those who don't study, it's an unreasonable system. If the Council of State looks at the figures with which the Loan Fund operates and the figures with which universities and colleges operate, it turns out that the Loan Fund has significantly fewer borrowers than the ones registered as students — that is, those registered in the Loan Fund, probably active full-time students, and of course they need good and proper funding. That's the actual ratio. The fact that the numbers with which the university operates are so inconsistency, which are registered students who are taking a course, follow lectures or anything, and the figures with which the loan fund operates may indicate that those who are active students take significantly more weights than those obtained from the statistics. When the council takes this up again and again, it's a bit of a hesitation. I'm sorry, but it is. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State fear that the scheme he is now sketching in terms of the conversion of the funding of studies can reinforce the severance of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1271	Rolf Reikvam is quite right in saying that the President is not particularly excited when co-representatives or members of the government are claimed to be speaking ‘purely deaf’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1274	One of the reasons why there are many more students registered than those who receive support from the State Borrowing Fund is among other things. that there are income limits as to whether a person is supported by the State Loan Fund. There we have proposed changes. Instead of having $5,200 a month as a limit, we say $100,000 a year as a limit. It is a significant improvement in the ability of students to work flexibly when appropriate to their studies. So let me take this with a teaspoon to the representative Reikvam: if you study for five years today, you get $100,000 in scholarships. If you study for five years when we have completed our model, you get 155,000 kroner in scholarships. If you are a year late, today you will receive NOK 120 000. If you are a year late for a five - year study in the future, you will receive NOK 155 000. That means that those who are delayed will also get NOK 35,000 more in scholarships. And how this is a disaster for the students, and how this is going to lead to increased social crookedness, it's totally incomprehensible to me. In addition, there is an undertone in Rikham’s speech that people with a working-class background or other low social background make it worse in the studies than others. There is no basis to claim. There is no link between the social background and the deletion rate. It is quite right that there is a link between social background, especially academic background, and motivation to enter higher education. But it's a completely different matter. It has nothing to do with the implementation and the deletion rate. In addition, this needs to be seen in the context of a significant increase in the quality of studies, in the evaluation over the year, follow-up of the students, which means that many more carry out individual trials on which the University and Higher Education Council base their financial calculations. That shows that 95 pst. students have been successful in the type of trial with a better quality of study. And that's the main point: Give students better student quality, give students better student funding, over DKK 1 billion in increased support. But also see some demands for completed studies, both from the institutions and students. Then we make a common great promise that benefits a future world-class knowledge nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1284	I found it very fascinating to be right at both the Council of State and several representatives from the Labour Party who are trying to present what we are doing in the Chamber today, as one says for the Government. I just want to point out, without going into detail as some others have done, that when the setting contains 19 proposals for decisions for which there are multiples, and very many of them are changes compared to what the government proposed, this speaks its clear language. The fact that the Labour Party has joined several of these to dampen the sense of defeat is all right, but it still states that there have been major changes here. I think I'll claim that if history's judgment, which I hope and believe, is that this is a quality reform, then it's the Stortinge to thank, and not the Government. I would like to comment a little, as many people have mentioned, on the study funding. Introductoryly, there may be grounds for stressing that there is a broad consensus on strengthening the funding of studies in general. There is no doubt that very many students have problems getting ends to meet, and that this is one of the reasons why so many students work so much in addition to studying. There is no goal for the students not to be able to take small jobs next to the study – it's just healthy. But it's going too far when the work becomes a major and the study becomes a biobb, at least for those students who actually want to be students on a long time. There were therefore many who were initially positive that the Council of State had been able to ‘press’ such a good increase in the study funding out of the Ministry of Finance. But as so often with the Council of State guesses – also here the medal had a backside. The rose increase in the theoretical scholarship portion from 30 to 39 pst. be able to achieve a much lower rate in practice. There is no one who disagrees with using study funding as carrots to make the students keep a reasonable pace. But with the arrangement of the Government, we feel that the effects can become a little too strong. Awaken student organisations discovered this, but unfortunately the Progress Party has this time merged with the Labour Party and secured multiple numbers for a scheme that can prove to be very unfortunate. Quite rightly, a person has tried to heal himself by asking the ministry to grant a fixed grant rate. In fact, the Council of State gives the impression that both student organisations and most others have misunderstood the message. But if one really means serious here, it's still possible to support the proposal from the Right and the Center Party. I would also like to mention the foreign students, where the Government and the Labour Party will remove the current system of cost standards adjusted according to the price level in the country of study. This is where the Workers' Party gets the majority against itself, as the currency adjustment scheme is passed on. I am pleased that the majority reject this attack on Norwegian students abroad. It is a novelty of principle interest when the majority today propose partial coverage of the tuition fees for students at the BI Handelshögskulen. I see this as an important step towards non-discrimination for students either to study well at public or private institutions. A full implementation of the non-discrimination principle may not be possible until the right comes through for its value-checking proposal. But this is an important step. There is reason to commend the student selection at BI for taking the necessary initiatives in this matter. Without it, there would hardly have been any suggestion in today's setting. But at the same time, as politicians themselves, we have to take responsibility for the fact that the search light has been well directed towards BI, to the displacement of full-time students at other institutions, which are not mentioned in the setting. I would therefore ask the Ministry to stress, in the management of this proposal, the need for all aspects of this matter to be dealt with, with realistic estimates of costs and other consequences. One of the consequences must be that, in addition to covering BI's students, a sister also includes students who are basically in the same situation. It is quite clear that it is not common sense to introduce a new form of discrimination, with particularly favourable conditions for an institution. In the past, the right has been the subject of an action plan for elephants with difficulty in reading and writing. We refused to do this, but the issues have been very topical in the period. Right-wing is very happy today that a collective committee is going in to ask the Government to propose to improve the facilities for making learning material available to read-only students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1312	As I said in my exchange of lines with the Center Party's Marit Tingelstad earlier today, in today's Norway we have a clear discrimination against universities and universities in public ownership versus those outside the public sector. 30 000 kroner – 50 000 kroner is not an unusual extra cost if you are among the 10 pst. which selects a private option. When we know that private individuals are alone in providing services in some disciplines and in some regions of Norway, it is obvious that we are eroding the desire that everyone should have equal rights to education. It is therefore strange that the other parties do not find that they would support the proposals of the Progress Party in this field. With our proposals, we would be fined for the discrimination that is taking place today. Marit Tingelstad referred to the fact that this is something to be investigated, and referred to the same proposal that Petter Løvik referred to, that it extends to assess the partial coverage of the tuition fee for students at BI. It's nice. But there are other private institutions than BI, and there's only partial coverage. The representative, Lyngstad, said that today's adjustment took great steps towards non-discrimination. As I see it, there is an administrative non-discrimination – of course required – but not yet an economic non-discrimination. A topic that has been discussed in the debate is the need for progress to be made in the studies in order to obtain a scholarship. I thought we had all recorded that within many of our educational institutions we have very low weights production. There are examples of the fact that the weight number production is one quarter of what it should be. As policymakers, we cannot record such problems without taking strong action. In this context, we should use financial instruments. I have no faith that this will cause great social bias, as some claim. There is no reason to believe that children of the working class are dumber than children of e.g. rich people. The Progress Party believes that hard work should be rewarded, and that is what we are promoting today in our remarks in the position. It must be clear that a better study progress will be useful and socially sensible. It surprises me that parties such as Christian People's Party and Right do not see this. I note, however, that they will meet us a little bit by having an increase in the grant share that will be linked to progress. Finally, many in this room are dealing with more or less fine proposals for study funding. When you look at the proposals of the Progress Party, no. 15, to ensure that also student loans are subject to tax deductions in line with interest rates, it must be clear that it is the Progress Party which has the best clear proposal in terms of study funding. So good are the proposals of the Progress Party that, in the past, both the chairman of the Committee and the Council of State have expressed great concern at the cost of the proposals. The Council of State was concerned that the Progress Party must have a Sarepta pot to cover up its proposals. We probably don't have it, but Norway has a government budget that goes with significant profits. Is it $230 billion that is calculated this year? We don't want to spend all of this, but some of it should benefit those who invest time and work in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1323	Today, it is a happy day for higher education institutions and not least for students. The size will adopt this evening a higher challenge reform that focuses on both quality and student welfare. The word-rich setting from the Mjøs selection is translated into a good message from the Government and, on the other hand, a committee setting that mainly supports it with a broad political deal. Universities and universities must be at the forefront of developing the community of competences. The transition from an industrial community to a knowledge-based society requires the individual to renew and develop competences throughout his or her life. With this setting we will now see that several greps will be taken to ensure the quality of the operation. This includes: This Workers' Party believes in renewing the public sector. Our hives are not established primarily in terms of being the hub of government and greatness, but rather a hub for the people and society's best. The government receives almost all of its proposals. It involves a new degree structure, a major improvement in student funding, new evaluation methods, the establishment of an independent quality assurance body and not least the ability of institutions to use skills and willingness to make rapid changes. It is easy for society to meet increasing demands for flexibility and adaptability. I think most people agree that this situation will only become stronger for years to come. Therefore, it is now so important to create tools that can meet this challenge. We must be at the forefront of this development. I register that the students essentially increase this setting. It's been a little noise. We haven't seen the big demonstrations this time, as we've been accustomed to having other major reforms. I take that as a signal that this reform has been well received in the environment. What may have created the greatest debate is the conversion of the study funding, where the government proposes to increase the challenge support by DKK 1.3 billion, i.e. a historic boost. We know that a good study funding is important to motivate young people to take on higher education. In addition, we know that there are huge costs for society by students outside the workforce at the time they study. Therefore, everyone should be concerned that the challenge course is being completed as quickly as possible. The working party will strike a blow for the full-time student. Therefore, we would like to refinance the study funding, so that in the future the grant will be awarded on the basis of completed studies, regardless of the duration of the study. Of course, today's social arrangements should continue, so that a screen of reasons beyond the student's control. This is a carrot, not a whip, as it has been made in the debate before. For me, it is incomprehensible that some claim that this is a bad model. Today's setting modifies a higher trend in a well-decentralized pattern. I am pleased that the centre party turned around and joined the Labour Party and SV, so that there would not be any plurality to try out with a special law company. There would have been considerable consequences for the districts if such a form of governance had been multiplied. Large institutional freedom is, of course, important to ensure good adaptability, but political governance would, in our opinion, disappear through the special legal form of society. In order to solve future challenges, the Labour Party proposes that institutions be organised as administrative bodies with special powers. This will give institutions the freedom they need. I'm glad this collects a multiple in this room. It's the public's responsibility to provide a wide and good service across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1340	Let me start by saying that the Center Party has absolutely not turned around in the view of the organisation of special law companies. We've always had the same view on that question. Good funding, study and welfare services are important both to achieve the objective of equal rights to education and to enable more people to study full-time. In the settings, important steps are taken to improve the situation for the students. Among other things, it is positive to focus on the quality of studies, with regular evaluation during the year and less emphasis on final exams. Welcome from the Centre Party. Of course, with regard to scholarships and scholarships, it is positive that the scholarships are increased, but it is also a big one here. The result might be that the student is becoming the loser. The Workers' Party is in partnership with the Advance Party to punish those students who do not complete the study in a normal time. The students will now be converted to 39 pst. of the study aid for scholarships only after they have taken the examination and only if they are completed in a normal time. Those who fail to do this will be converted into loans. The centre party believes that this would be pushing too much risk on the students, and that it takes from the students the basic security that is in today's grant scheme. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party here are helping to strengthen the socially biased recruitment we see that it is for higher education. I would assume that there are many in the Workers' Party who do not feel comfortable with today's decision. I have also noticed that the student organisations fear the consequences of the decision being made. In particular, student organisations indicate that there are many factors beyond the control of the students that affect the course of education. Of course, they're right about this. The centre party is in favour of the 30 pst weight independent grant share. becomes like today, and that the increase in the grant of 10 pst., from 30 to 40 pst., depends on the weight of the grant. This is in line with the wishes of the student organisations. Such a model achieves the objective of an additional incentive to carry out the study on the basis of planned progress, while at the same time not weakening basic safety, as the majority regrettably suggests. Furthermore, in a debate on higher education, it is important to consider the loan conditions encountered by students after completion of education. In the setting, the Central Party has expressed its primary position on the terms of the study loan. We believe that no one should pay back more to the State Treasury for Education than they have borrowed. The student loan shall be restated only from the date of completion of the studies. The central party believes that it is not right for the state to earn the benefit of youth education. The fact that young people receive education must be rewarded, not penalised as at present by the fact that interest is charged on loans used for knowledge development and skills. If we're going to get people to take longer education, we also have to be willing to give them conditions that it's possible to combine with normal start-up costs. Unfortunately, with today's loan scheme, many people with higher education are struggling to get their ends to meet. We want to do something about this. Unfortunately, from the setting it looks like there are a few other parties involved in this relationship. I also want to get into another important area of the position, namely the division of labour between universities and colleges. These institutions have their own characteristics that it is important to take care of, while at the same time giving institutions the opportunity to develop and have something to reach out to. The majority of the committees have made this progress very well. I believe it is important that institutions that should be able to call themselves universities should have reasonable breadth and depth at the master/master level and in the field of research and training. The qualification requirements of the Mjøs Committee for four doctoral degrees to be called a university mean I give a good quality mark at the university of the future. The universities of the future to which it is added in the setting are not of the same kind as the latitude universities we know today – on the contrary. They must create a profile consistent with the region in which they are anchored and developed in line with this. The majority also suggest that high schools should have good working conditions. It will include, among others: by the majority, in particular, mention should be made of strengthening research efforts, including in the case of research environments which belong to non-university institutions. This means, among other things: higher education institutions with doctoral degrees and good research environments, such as: The higher education institutions of Agder, Stavanger and Bodø must be given access to further development through the allocation of research funds. The number of committees gives clear signals here that the framework conditions for these institutions to develop into universities need to be facilitated. Of course, this does not preclude other colleges from being able to develop into strong disciplines that can eventually gain university status, such as: an inland university.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1361	I want to start by telling a story from my native mother. It's a village that lies on the coast of North Norway, and there it is that when you get good fish, it's about pulling in and frying fish cakes. For an older couple it had become such a weekend that there had come so much fish that the wife had remained standing and frying fish cakes all night to Sunday, so the man had to go alone to worship. When he came home, the woman wanted to hear what the priest had been talking about. The man was of the not too talkative type, but when the wife had sometimes asked him about what it was the priest had talked about, there came a short reply from the man: The priest talked about the sin. Well, that was interesting, the woman seemed, but not very precise. And after asking a couple of times about what the priest meant about sin, she got the answer. What the priest meant about sin? He was against it! Now I've been sitting on the Education Committee for almost four years and participating in debates, and it's been pretty much striking how the Right Party, and especially the Main Number Person, has used a lot of words to talk about what everyone else, and especially the Workers' Party, thinks, while it's very often been hard to figure out what the Right really stands for. It is also true in this case. The representative's salary has been strong in his criticism of the message, but when you read the setting, it's very difficult to find out what the Right really means. Luckily for those voters who really want to get involved in this, the Right has had a separate selection in turn, some kind of alternative Mjøs selection. Here you can, for example: see that the Right considers that not only special-law companies are a current model but also AS can be a suitable organisational model for higher education institutions. Here you can see that the Right primarily wants a society with lower taxes and higher pay differentials, that the principle of higher basic education is to be abolished free of charge and, on the contrary, introduce tuition fees. The right will also have full equality between private and public institutions, but without problemating the impact this will have on the higher education institutions in the districts. The most interesting thing, however, is the view on study funding. For what is that right really want? Well, it's clear. ‘The committee will not propose to increase the grant’.» And on the other hand, ‘The step-by-step ratio should therefore remain at 30 per cent.’ Clearly, it cannot be said. At the same time, the Right will increase the cost standard. Increased cost standards, but the same scholarship means in clear terms that the total debt after completion of education will increase if you study for the same period of time. Furthermore, Right writes that the grant amount of 30 pst. should be shortened if students spend more than normal time getting through the study. The main difference between the Conversion Model of the Workers' Party and the Right Model is that the Workers' Party will give students over NOK 1000 more per year. month in scholarship. We want to increase the scholarship to almost 40 pst. But not enough with that. The right considers that students who are more than one year late should also have their debt increased further by the start of interest. For those who are concerned with better funding for studies, there can therefore be no doubt: the Labour Party's proposal is much better than the Right's proposal, and unlike the Right and Center parties and the promises they made four years ago, we must follow our promises. So I just want to say one thing to those who say that we are going into partnership with the Progress Party, and let me try to say it as clearly as I can: the proposal to raise the cost standard to NOK 80,000 and to increase the grant share to about 39 p.m. is the Workers' Party's proposal. Then the Progress Party supports us, and then we have a majority in favour of strengthening the study funding that we are very proud of. Finally, I would like to say a few words about peace education. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of establishing a peace training centre at the University of Tromsø. The establishment of such a centre will have national significance. I believe it is important that the work on creating such a centre takes place in interaction with the other disciplines, and that it can also trigger additional support to the University of Tromsø over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1395	I think the debate has been kind of eye-catching, because things that we have experienced have been quite clear in the message, are suddenly not so clear anymore. It seems to me that the message is now being interpreted in the direction that it is now appropriate to interpret the message. Two points: the notification is clear when it comes to strengthening the Norwegian Network Council as a quality development instrument, and the argument in the Communication places emphasis on the evaluation of institutions’ activities. In the committee setting, something else is said. The Committee setting mentions an accreditation and evaluation body, as proposed by the Mjøs Committee. The Committee’s recommendation states that a request for accreditation of institutions should be implemented on the basis of the way in which the Norwegian Network Council has outlined it in a hearing opinion to the Mjøs Committee. This is something quite different from what the Council of State is trying to produce. And where I read the message completely different from what I read the committee setting. The second element that the Council of State has also addressed in its line exchange and in its statement was study funding. It also seems unclear in my opinion after the statements of the Council of State. During the debate after 9 March, the Council of State argued for an increased throughput and used it to explain its new model. The grant shall reward the effort and shall be obtained upon completion of the examination in order to increase the duration of the study. The notification also refers to the fact that the new model will provide economic savings, and these savings are directly linked to the flow. Now the Council of State says that the grant should be given independently of the student's throughput. We absolutely need a clarification of what's really in the cards now. This may also be precisely why the Workers' Party's fraction in the committee setting has asked for an investigation of, among other things. the last. The representative Norvoll had a strong defence for the new study funding model, and pointed out that the Workers' Party now introduced a strong increase in the grant share and in the cost standard, which the Centre parties did not have the power to do when we were in government. It is true that the Government is now proposing an increased grant share, but none of us knew – and neither has it been in the Workers' Party's programme – that they wanted to raise the grant share in addition to the 30 pst. That was the deepest secret of it, until the 9th of March. Only then did there become a majority in this hall to raise the grant rate beyond 30 pst. I think it's a pleasure. The Christian People's Party wants to be part of it. I now register that the government puts all its money there. But then, in its Communication, the Government has said nothing about following up the institutions and the content reform with increased resources, rather on the contrary. The Communication states that the financing model will be able to be implemented within the existing budgets. It means, in my opinion, that the Government has put all its funds into the study funding model. It's good, but it's not from the Government's side given any escalating on the resource side to save the content bit. Therefore, it became necessary for me earlier today to say that in the inter-institutional and departmental drawdown ‘the student is at risk of becoming a blackmailer’. He's in financial danger. We now need a clarification of what the Council of States really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1412	Of course, we should be careful with strong characteristics in a debate like this, but I still believe I dare say that this is probably one of the most important debates we have in this process of enlargement. It is no less than how to maintain, further develop and transfer the principal capital of the country of origin, namely knowledge capital. While the second type of capital – whether it is consumption of storage resources, or whatever it may be – is available, knowledge capital is not just what it will live on in the future, but it is also what it will develop after – culturally, socially and otherwise. In that case, it should be lacking that this does not give rise to a very wide-ranging debate both inside and outside the Stortinget. For example, I heard. a speaker who previously mentioned in the debate that the Council of State had ‘high levels of cigars’, and referred to it as ‘high levels of cigars’. to the Council of State in this debate. In my view, it should just be missing! Faced with one of the most important issues facing the country, there should be no need for us to have a significant and comprehensive debate on this, where views can be expressed and tested in the general debate. The fact that the Council of State and other important debaters participate with life and lust in it is certainly just a preference. Overall, as far as I can see, you have come up with a system that not only addresses the enormous challenges of tomorrow, but also the major changes we already have, for example. in social recruitment, in broad recruitment and in the complexity of knowledge demand in Norwegian society today. It requires solutions other than those that some of us were facing when it was our turn, some 30 years ago. A fundamental debate on the design of the country’s higher education institutions has some important boundaries to take. It's e.g. important that research and the organisation of dissemination are highly characterised by institutional freedom, yes, individual freedom for those concerned. Research and education management with tied mandates, in relation to the needs of industry, to the governance needs of the different actors in society, is not what we need in order to widen knowledge and knowledge dissemination in the Norwegian community. But that does not mean that education and education systems should live in any kind of political or social vacuum. On the contrary, this debate clearly shows that there are societal interests that characterise – and should characterise – what future Norwegian higher education will look like. The inner self-government and the inner freedom of those who communicate, of those who receive the communication, and of those who bring about new knowledge, I am an inexhaustible follower of. But when it seems that there is no significant difference in principle between the governance of the Workers' Party and the intermediate parties on the one hand, and the Right and the Advance Party on the other hand, there may be reason to call for a rather serious warning. This may be the difference between deep societal interests being governed by the law and commercial interests or narrow-track social interests being governed by the law. A system in which institutions are to hover in close proximity to both society’s insight and society’s priorities can easily become a training system serving narrow interests rather than the wider interests. Within that, I think there is room for several individual freedom, institutionally and – I had almost said – personally. But keep us for a system where freedom is to be practised so that it is the narrow social interests that really get the right to rule!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1425	Representatives who are given the floor will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1428	In four years at the latest, Kristiansand is a university city. It's the headmaster of the Agder High School. He is equally sure that it will have an enormous impact on the entire region. I'm not so sure the principal gets right in his first position. But I am absolutely sure that if and when the University of Agder receives university status, it will be of great importance to the whole of the country. The majority of the Committee requires four doctoral degrees in order to achieve university status. I had really hoped that the Workers' Party's proposal to grant university status on that level, among other things. The University of Agder and the College of Stavanger have today gained in the areas where they have a doctorate level, that it would have been sufficient to give these colleges university status. So that's not the case. Instead, the overall strategy will now be to obtain doctoral studies in several fields, rather than to have safety at the bottom in one or two areas and to take the time needed to build up further. A separate university in Agder means we're getting in line with other parts of the country. The effects become multiplicity. It's enough to show what the University of Tromsø has meant to the whole of North Norway. We'll have more research funding and we'll be able to compete on the same lines with other universities. For us, it also becomes a simpler recruitment situation. It is easier to acquire competence in a university than in a higher education institution. That's what the headmaster says at the University of Agder, and I agree with everything he says. But it's pretty important to remind the University's management that we can't have any of these benefits until the University of Agder has achieved university status. So it has to be done, according to the principal, by 2005 at the latest. Until then, the universities of Agder, Stavanger and Bodø have to cope without the possibility that a university status would give them, and they have to concentrate their whole work on acquiring adequate skills so that they can achieve doctorate levels within four disciplines. In fact, a lot indicates that it will be the College in Stavanger that will take care of the fires first. As far as I understand it, they are a horsehead in front of Agder and more horsehouders in front of Bodø. Some have indicated that today's suspension is a defeat for Minister of Education Giske. I do not agree with that claim. I'm actually more afraid that the majority vote can lead to a defeat for the Agder High School and for our entire part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1439	There are many nice words in St.meld. No 27. I quote: «An equal opportunity for all to take education is a fundamental prerequisite for a fair and good society.» «A knowledge nation in which the whole population is given the best results for both democracy and social debate, for social and cultural conditions and for economic development.» «Everyone shall have a equal right to education». «Competitive education also requires the organisation of those with special needs or disabilities». There is also a small section on the organisation of disabled people. But how are the good visions to be translated into practical action for the individual student in our educational institutions? It's not going to work automatically. Since the notification is intended to be of a principle and overall nature, it is absolutely necessary to hold a debate on the legislating of the right to user-adapted solutions for people with disabilities in relation to both education and examination. Competence in the education system, inter alia: read-write and arithmetical difficulties are not at a level which gives each institution the right to self-determination in relation to the organisation of each group. It is also a little strange that formal education rights have been granted in primary and secondary schools, while it has not been continued in higher education. It is a form of discrimination that is very serious, for it can either be seen as if someone thinks he is being cured of his disability when he is out of high school, or that he is unwanted at college and university. It does not help whether colleges have created action plans for the disabled when they are not used, nor does it help for dyslexics to go into the system when the next person has to take exactly the same fight a year or two later, or that the student is given the organisation of the exam one year, but not the year after. This fight has at least been going on for 25 years, based on the feedback I have received. It's too long, and it's an unnecessary fight. Being disabled in relation to the writing language, as dyslexics are, is a major challenge in our community of competences, not least because Norway aims to become a leading knowledge nation. When 10-15 ps. of the Norwegian population having specific read and write difficulties, it is clear that the size of the group is such that a power cap is needed to make optimal use of their resources. It is also a good social economy. But then it's important that it's a holistic thinking, and that, for example, Widespread resources are enough to meet the need for assistance to colleges and universities that they demand. It's very positive that learning materials are now to be made available to people with reading disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1465	This is an important reform for students and institutions, which now has great opportunities for change and development. The fact that the four classical universities are to have a specialty in basic research, I think, is reasonable and reasonable. It is also important that it is stated that there should be no more broad universities. So we all agree on this. It is when one comes to the criteria for scientific colleges to be able to use the name university, that the political disagreement arises. The majority follow up on the requirements of the Mjøs range, which includes, inter alia: the master’s level of training in at least five different areas in addition to basic education and research in four disciplines. In my opinion, it would be much more constructive if the institutions that want university status were to use their resources on the students and learning environments rather than on the main objective, which has now become the requirements of the majority proposal. I am pleased that the Workers' Party opens up the possibility for Bodø, Stavanger and Agder to develop in the subject areas required. It is also very good for the Workers' Party to ask the Ministry to come back with strategic measures to promote developments aimed at university status. This is constructive thinking and proper use of resources, but unfortunately this is torpedoed by the majority of the Storting. For Agder, a university status would be a big boost – a modern university with new and perhaps more business-oriented subjects. An Agder University is not just a university that the county will need. Norway too will need such a new and modern university. I am therefore disappointed with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, which will push such an important development for the South into the blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1477	In Hedmark, we were very happy when the Labour Party government opened up to extend the possibility of using the university designation. Over time, Hedmark and Uppland counties have given strong support to the vision of establishing an inland university. It's the three Lillehammer, Gjøvik and Hedmark colleges that have taken the initiative, but there's a lot of people who are taking the load. In a joint meeting, the two counties adopted an opinion supporting the vision actively. This has also been followed up by appropriations to build up a research fund, so that higher education institutions can have the means to strengthen their competence and to carry out research and development for the benefit of the region. The migration programme for the two counties focuses on skills as an important support bar and focuses strongly on the higher education institutions in the transition work. By this point of view, we believe that there is an overall region behind the vision of an inland university. We already have strong links with Karlstad University, through the University Alliance Inner Scandinavia. This is a project funded through INTERREG with EU funds. All higher education institutions in the country benefit from this cooperation. It is important to develop and benefit from the specific assumptions of regions and communities. Economic development is a central element here, but it is also of great importance to develop social services, culture and local identity in order to ensure housing and regional development. It is a central task of education and research institutions to contribute to this through research and dissemination of knowledge. The decision of the county councils has put pressure on the colleges and was an important signal and challenge to the domestic society that the development of competence in the domestic and development towards an inland university is a key factor in the development of the area. At the same time, our decisions stress that it is the colleges themselves that must be the driving force in developing their own skills so that they can qualify to become a university. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has pointed to the possibility of universities in Hedmark and Uppland to develop into a future inland university. I am therefore very disappointed that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party do not want to support the Workers' Party's proposal for criteria that state universities with more than one research education can apply for transition to university status. The representative of the Centre Party in the Committee agrees to require that the place of study may be designated as a university only after having been given autonomous responsibility for the training of researchers in at least four different specific disciplines. If the Center Party really wanted to support an inland university, yeah, then it's no drag to sharpen the criteria. Once again, the Central Party's district policy is failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1494	Today, it is historically in this way that we now have clear criteria for which institutions can call themselves universities. This should be the time for the time when the part of the country stood against the part of the country and discussed who would have the next university. Now the different institutions can work with their backgrounds and regional anchoring, towards what is the goal, and know that if they do the job correctly, they will achieve the goal. This will also ensure that resources are used in a sensible way, targeted at those areas where the different institutions can find their specific areas. This is something that an almost unanimous biging is behind. It is therefore amazing to note that the position taken by the Workers' Party here is more reminiscent of the time when one stood for sports competitions with the ideal time when the list had actually been removed. That's exactly what the Working Party here adds up to. However, on a day that is today, a cost is still to be glad that the Workers' Party is also opening up to establish several universities in Norway. The most important thing is that you now have the criteria clarified. That's why it's amazing to, among other things, Representatives from the Workers' Party and the Agder bench today are disappointed, as long as their own college, at least as I have registered, cheered on the day the Mjøs Committee made clear criteria. So did one in Stavanger. Now you know in which direction you're going to go. But what is important, as the Committee also stresses, and to which the Storing will join today, is that this is a quality reform, one which follows with financial resources. There are therefore clear comments in the position, both from the majority and from the Workers' Party, which go especially to those universities that currently have doctoral awards, which point out that it is important that these are taken into account in the future allocation of research funds so that they can reinforce the positive developments we are now experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1505	In a private bill, the Left has proposed to merge Norway's veterinary high school and Norway's agricultural high school and to locate the entire institution of Ås. We have assumed that Norway, which has a total of 300 research institutes and 60 universities and colleges, needs to better pool and organise its resources if we are to be excellent in some selected areas. We think that the idea of a natural resource-based university at Ås under the code word «Green University» is a good idea. We are so pleased that this proposal is annexed to the Minutes and will now be examined. I want to add that the environment at Ås has a bioresearch park that's going to become an innovation centre, and we have MATFORSK there, so that the commercialisation of research results, combined with the development of good products, can actually take place down there. I also want to add that the veterinary college has become increasingly marginalised over the last few years and has not benefited from new resources. I think that a merger would give a significant boost, not just to the Veterinary College, but to both institutions. I would think that this could mean a long-lasting review of the institution NVH. The representative's salary noted in a reply to Dørum that he thinks the voluntary work represented by FUGE should also be able to continue without politicians getting involved in it to try to merge institutions. There I have to say that I think that the former principal of the university wants a greater volunteer than what we politicians sometimes see the need for. There is no doubt that we are the ones who need to have the overall view and look at what opportunities we have to rationalize the institutions, while at the same time having to have a ‘helicopter’ to look into the future. That is the proposal of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1516	It is gratifying that a majority of the Workers' Party, Centre and SV in the position indicate that it is important to increase the research effort to North Norway and point to the special task of universities in developing study facilities in regions with a low level of education. In the Nordic countries, the level of education is below the national average. It is therefore very important, when increasing the funds for research and development, that this majority comment be followed up. That was not exactly in line with what happened in the Financial Committee in connection with the appointment of the revised National Budget, when a majority would not be in favour of giving a start-up grant to the newly built Nesna in a part of the country that is just in need of higher education. So a little bit to the debate on criteria for the denomination university. I think, after all, it's a pleasure that a joint committee wants a development and shows that it's desirable with several universities. The Labour Party adds to many new ‘university light’, as I interpret it, while the majority will follow the criteria of the Mjøs Committee and direct research funds towards the universities that have doctoral programmes. It is important not to spread research funds far beyond — it is a limited resource — but to guide them in a direction that can lead to greater development. There are three colleges that are currently on the verge of becoming a university. It's the colleges of Agder, Stavanger and Bodø. In Bodø they are determined that within three to five years the Mjøs criteria shall be met. But that's one important assumption, and that's that the Storting has to follow up the promise of money. In the Christian People's Party, we will be the proponents that these three colleges that are at the forefront of the race, and others who want to follow, will achieve their goal of becoming a university, with a breadth that gives status also in international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-12.ana.ud823e1529	When the scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is immediately at hand, it will be paused. New meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 6:00 p.m. The first speaker at tonight's meeting is Jan Simonsen, and the president can tell that so far nine have signed up for three minutes in this case.
