ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e62	I refer to the debate in Odelstinget and promote the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 10(c) and (e) are assumed to be deleted2. Paragraph 15, third paragraph, should be deleted3. Paragraph 21 is assumed to be deleted4. § 22 is assumed to be due5. § 23 is assumed to be due6. Paragraph 25 is assumed to be deleted7. Paragraph 41, first sentence, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Criminal care shall in due time prepare and contribute to facilitating release.’8. Paragraph 42, with the exception of the seventh paragraph, is assumed to be deleted9. Paragraph 43 is assumed to be deleted10. § 44 is expected to be deleted11. § 45 is expected to be deleted12. II, Section 28 is assumed to be deleted’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e112	Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e115	On behalf of the Right, I will present the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 10, first paragraph, point (c) is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘c) in transitional prisons’2. The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 15 is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Inmates may, when specific reasons justify it, be transferred from high or lower level prison to transitional prison once part of the sentence has been completed.’3. The first paragraph of Section 28(a) is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Society sentences may be imposed for acts which may result in a sentence of imprisonment of up to 2 years if the offender agrees and the purpose of the sentence is not contrary to a response to freedom. Social penalties shall not be used for repetition. The increase in the maximum penalty in the event of a clash of crimes is not considered. Social penalties may be imposed only if the person in question is resident in Norway.’» I am also delighted to present the following proposals on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 10, first paragraph, point (d) is assumed to be deleted.2. Paragraph 11, fourth paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.3. Paragraph 14, fourth paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.4. Paragraph 15, second paragraph, third sentence, is assumed to be deleted.5. Paragraph 15, third paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.6. Paragraph 30, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The criminal service shall check the postal service to and from prisoners in the department with a particularly high level of security before it is delivered or sent. Posting to and from prisoners shall also be checked, but verification shall be avoided if safety reasons do not contradict it.’7. Paragraph 31, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Criminal services shall check visits to the department with a particularly high level of security. Visits to prison are also to be controlled, but control is to be avoided if safety reasons do not contradict it.’8. Paragraph 32, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Criminal services shall check telephone calls to and from prisoners in the department with a particularly high level of security. Telephone calls to and from prisoners are also to be checked, but control is not possible if safety reasons do not contradict them.’9. Paragraph 40, third paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.10. The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 28(b) is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘If the conviction has breached the requirement that a new criminal offence should not be committed during the period of enforcement, the right of inquiry should, at the request of the prosecution, provide for the full or partial enforcement of the subsidiary prison sentence.’;» Finally, I am delighted to make the following proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 29, second paragraph, second sentence, is assumed to be deleted.2. The second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 29 is presumed to be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e201	Petter Løvik has put forward the proposals he has now referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will first vote on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the proposal from the Right, then on the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party and finally on the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e224	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e236	As I refer to the debate in Odelstinget, I would like to make the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note:§ 18 is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The person who claims compensation under the law here can bring the case before the courts at the earliest when six months have elapsed after the claim for compensation has been filed under Section 9. Others may bring the case before the courts at the earliest when a final decision is taken in the Patient Injury Division. The case must be brought within two months at the latest from the date of notification of the final decision in the Patient Injury Division to the person concerned. Where that period has expired without an action being brought, the decision shall have the same effect as a final judgment and may be enforced in accordance with the rules of the court.The action shall be brought against the person responsible in accordance with Section 6 or his insurer in accordance with Section 8. If compensation has been or has not been decided upon by the Norwegian Patient Injury or Patient Injury Department, conciliation is not necessary. If an action is brought before the General Court and the injured party requests the dispute to be settled by the Patient Injury Division, the court may stay the proceedings until the Patient Injury Division has taken a final decision. Where a court has brought an action after the first sentence, the period laid down in the second subparagraph shall apply in order to bring the case again. Once the time limit has expired, the Court of Justice shall stay the proceedings.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e257	Per Erik Monsen has put forward the proposal he has now referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e260	I refer to the debate in Odelstinget and promote the following proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 10, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation or the insurer who may become liable under Section 8 investigates the case. In case of doubt, Norwegian Patient Compensation determines who will investigate it.’ Paragraph 11 is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The patient’s expenses for legal assistance are covered if the person investigating the case has made a decision to that effect, or the costs are deemed to be losses as a result of the damage. The patient may require a preliminary ruling from the person investigating the case concerning the legal costs that will be covered.’ Paragraph 12, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘When an insurer has investigated the case, it is decided whether to provide compensation and, where appropriate, the amount of compensation. It shall be disclosed that the decision may be filed with the sufferer within three weeks."4. Paragraph 15, first and second paragraphs, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The individual decisions of the Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation as referred to in the second sentence of Section 14 and the corresponding decisions of insurers pursuant to Section 8 may be appealed to the Patient Damage Department by the patient and others who have suffered loss due to patient injury. In addition, the individual decision of the Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation may be appealed against by a liable under the second sentence of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6, or by his insurer under Section 8, which is required to pay compensation by the decision. Others may not appeal against the individual decision of the Norwegian Patient Indemnification Allowance or an equivalent decision of the insurers. The period for lodging an appeal is three weeks.When six months have elapsed since the notification of the claim, claims against an insurer may be brought to the Patient Injury Division under Section 8 regardless of whether the decision has been taken.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e293	Aud Gaundal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, has put forward the proposal she herself has referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will then vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party and then on the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e310	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e322	I refer to the debate that has been in Odelstinget, and on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, I am promoting the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 7 § 38 nr. 4 – Act on Protection against Infectious Diseases – § 2-3 is expected to be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e334	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, Anne Britt Stråtveit has put forward the proposal she has now referred to. Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-26-upper.ana.ud199e344	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
