ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e58	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e63	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e68	Kjell Engebretsen and Marit Nybakk are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Marit Nybakk are unanimously elected as presidents of the Odelstingen meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e85	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e96	Ot. pp. No 38 for 2000-2001 on the introduction of an environmental law for Svalbard is largely met with agreement from Stortinget, so I have only a few small comments. The Committee agrees unanimously with the principle that Svalbard should be among the best-preserved wilderness areas in the world. This is also in line with what Stortinget has previously said. The Committee is also unanimous in its view that where conflicts arise, environmental considerations shall be of the utmost importance. This not only limits industrial activities, it also limits how people living on Svalbard should relate to nature. As the Committee unanimously writes in its comments: ‘The point is precisely to ensure human activity, but within the framework of environmental tolerance limits.’ Another necessary tool to preserve the unique and vulnerable nature of Svalbard is to bring together the law of Svalbard into one law, making the management of the large areas easier. In the Committee's view, it is right to legislate on a general principle of Svalbard's vulnerable flora and fauna, with some exceptions, of course. At the same time, the Committee recognises that hunting and fishing are of great importance to residents, and expects that attention will also be paid to the development of regulations and the enforcement of the law. Cultural memory protection also has a central place in ensuring the unique qualities of Svalbard. The Committee supports the proposal to include a regulation on this in the law. The ratio there's been the most attention around, is this with movement. The new proposal implies that the public’s right to movement is legalised and that all motor traffic is prohibited unless otherwise provided for in the law. This means that access to winter driving for residents and very limited access for passengers are laid down in the Regulation. In this context, the Committee stresses the importance of ensuring the right of movement for the general public. As I said, the Committee broadly supports the Government's proposal, and I would like to say that with this we are taking an important step to ensure Svalbard's unique environment, and to ensure that Svalbard becomes one of Earth's best-preserved and best-managed wilderness areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e116	The political and international situation of Svalbard is unique in the world context. Therefore, Norway has a significant responsibility for managing the island group in a way that ensures responsible resource management. The exercise of authority in the archipelago since the mid-1970s has grown both in width and scope, in line with new challenges. This strengthening of the Norwegian administration of Svalbard harmonizes with and reflects the consistent and firm enforcement of the sovereignty that prevails over Norwegian svalbard policy. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that with this odelstingsproposition, the Government follows up the Storting's stated view that an environmental law for Svalbard should be introduced. On several previous occasions, Stortinget has expressed its opinion on this issue. Strengthening the protection of the unique natural environment and cultural memories of Svalbard was one of the main objectives of the central government as it presented its svalbard policy in St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000, which has been agreed by the Storting. This includes, inter alia: the protection of the environment at Svalbard shall ensure that the human presence and activity are kept within the limits required for the preservation of the island group’s special wild nature. All industrial activities, resource use, research and education shall take place within the framework of the conservation of the natural and cultural heritage of Svalbard. Furthermore, environmental considerations must be given priority within the framework of the Svalbard Treaty in the event of conflicts with other interests. It is an objective that Svalbard should appear as one of the world's best managed wilderness areas, and that commodity thinking must be the guiding principle for the management of the area. With this in mind, the Christian People's Party and the Government have a parallel view of keeping the development of new cabins at a sound level by reserveing the right to own or rent recreational cabins of the person who is or has been resident on Svalbard, and of associations or enterprises which have their main seat on the island. The Christian People's Party believes this is important because keeping the development of new cabins at a proper level is part of the protection of the wilderness character. While the Government has proposed new rules on movement involving the legal establishment of the public's right to movement, all motor traffic shall, as a general rule, be prohibited unless otherwise provided for by law. The Christian People's Party is in favour of reflecting the principle of access to motorised traffic and that movement which cannot be justified by real transport needs should not be permitted. The Committee is essentially behind the vote. However, motor traffic and cab construction are examples of different views of how restrictive one would like to be in the practice of the Svalbard legislation. The Christian People's Party has, as a general attitude, a strict policy that does not threaten Svalbard's peculiarity. For Svalbard is unique. It is our responsibility as politicians, it is our businessman, and it is our responsibility to ensure that the peculiarity of Svalbard, after all, is not threatened in any way in the future. In the case of coal mining on Svalbard, this is an industrial activity with major environmental challenges. Greenhouse gas emissions in coal operations lead to a conflict between environmental considerations and mining considerations. However, the Christian People's Party is aware that the Government will come to Stortinget with its own case about mining on Svalbard, and therefore believes it would be natural to come back to the question of his future on that occasion. We have pointed out in the comments that in this context there is a need to focus heavily on environmental considerations. The Christian People's Party has otherwise opposed the Ministry's proposal that a delimitation should be made in relation to the management of saltwater fish, crustaceans and marine mammals not native to Svalbard. We believe that the same principle must apply to countries at sea. That many species walk between Svalbard and Norwegian economic zone, and that protection one place will have no meaning because they are taxed elsewhere, is an argument that, in our opinion, does not hold. Although species are taxed in one place, conservation elsewhere will nevertheless contribute to a total strengthening. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal that has been included in the vote, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e146	Brother Yngve Rahm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e149	The Svalbard Environmental Act is primarily a simplification and cleanup of current laws and regulations. However, the law itself also means a stronger emphasis on the environmental perspective in Norway’s swallowing policy. Svalbard is a unique part of Norway that we have a special international responsibility to care for the coming generations. It also means that we have a responsibility to secure the settlement on Svalbard. Therefore, we are pleased that a unanimous committee underlines the importance of hunting and fishing for the residents and the culture of Svalbard, and that this must also be emphasised in the preparation of the regulations in the light of this law. Although the draft law has not essentially raised much resistance, I have registered that there is a great deal of tension associated with what the regulations based on the law will contain. It is therefore important to follow this closely. The right would include: bound this up more in the case of scooter driving. We do not agree that there are similarities between scooter racing on the mainland and Svalbard. Among other things, this is less conflicty on Svalbard because of the huge areas in relation to the population. In addition, as long as there are no roads beyond the settlements, it is a decisive means of emergence. I think we have a hard time understanding the meaning of scooter traffic and scooter usage for the residents and their families at Svalbard. Therefore, the Right considers that in the preparation of the regulations for scooter use, it is necessary to consider that the possibility of movement for residents and their visitors remains essentially as today. Not least, we are concerned about the increased red tape that the new scheme related to residents’ visitors will lead to in the case of scooter driving, where a person must apply for approval from the Employment Manager to take with him, for example. his visiting family on the scooter. The law also proposes a strong restriction on owning or renting a cabin on Svalbard. In general, this restriction is justified by the desire to reduce the cabin construction on Svalbard. This objective fully shares the right, but we can't see that limitations related to owning and renting existing cabins will have any effect on this. On the other hand, there is a sufficient basis in the law, and other regulations should be fully governed in relation to that purpose. We can see that the proposal for Section 85 is nothing but a strong attack on ownership. Especially evil is the fact that children who have not even lived on Svalbard will now be deprived of their opportunity to inherit their parents' cabin. Although they will receive a symbolic economic compensation, a leisure property represents something far more than an economic value. We will therefore vote against this paragraph in accordance with what the Svalbard Council also recommends. I bring this up with proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e164	Bent Höie has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e167	The Progress Party is pleased that a separate environmental law for Svalbard is now being introduced. In the past, it has been established that Svalbard should be among the best-preserved wilderness areas in the world and that environmental considerations should weigh more heavily in the event of conflicts with other interests. We are also pleased that there is broad consensus in the Committee on the main principles of the law, so I will focus on the few areas where we do not share the majority's views. First of all, with cultural memories. We do not disagree with the intentions of the law, but we are somewhat skeptical of what is included in the definition of cultural memory. Last year, the Committee visited Svalbard. some old fishing and settlement sites. In one of these places lay a pile of old, rusty cans and other old scraps. My first thought was that here it had to be cleaned up, as this scrap was lying and was directly blatant to nature. This was also the reaction of a former environmental protection minister who had visited the site, I was informed. But no then, these were peaceful cultural memories that one did not get touched. Of course, we have nothing against protecting cultural memories. But we're skeptical that all traces of human activity from a given time period should automatically be a cultural memory. So to this with the cabin construction. It is in the law a good basis to limit cabin construction on Svalbard, which we agree with. § 85 deals with restrictions as to who will own or rent the few cabins that escape through the loop and can be built. In my opinion, it is quite hopeless that you should be able to travel to Svalbard and for example. enter a hotel, but if a person wants to rent a cabin, he/she is not allowed to do so. This doesn't work very well. Then to Section 78, about the fee for travellers. It is proposed to introduce a fee for all passengers to Svalbard. The fee shall enter the Svalbard Environmental Protection Fund. We are traditionally attached to the polluter-pays, and insofar as trailers of earmarked environmental taxes, but when we do not want to support the proposal, this is because what is proposed will not work as intended. It will take a lot of resources and a lot of bureaucracy just to charge this fee, which will eat up the few millions you'll get, so it won't be big again at the fund. On the basis of this, we will vote against Section 78, and support proposal No. 3 that Section 85 on the right to own or rent cabins is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e180	Let me first address the unanswered proposal, proposal No. 3, to make sure it's done. I thought it was nice to be here on 5 June, on the day of the world's environmental protection, and to be able to give credit to a government that usually doesn't care about environmental policy, so that they actually come up with something that makes sense in terms of environmental policy. It's good to be able to do it sometimes too, even if it rarely happens when it comes to the Workers' Party. It is said that SV is in favour of what is presented. We have a couple of things we'd like to comment on. On the one hand, I would also like to have a comment from the Minister for the Environment. The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, was concerned about this with the principle of protection at land and sea. Why should the same principle not apply? Or in a slightly different way: immigrants, i.e. fish and crustaceans entering Svalbard, should be treated differently from the permanent fish resources that are there. That seems very strange to me. I also wonder how every day one should be able to control that policy properly. Then it would be easier if one had the same principle of land as at sea, and did it over a comb. But let me now listen to how the Minister for the Environment defends another position. It will, as Rahm said, strengthen the population overall if we have the same rule. I should also spend a little time doing this with motorised driving. The starting point should be that there is the real transport demand as a debt. The rule should therefore be that it should initially not be allowed, only where it can be justified by real transport needs, as proposed by SV and the centre party. I would also like to have a comment on that. So to what some have also been in the past. The author states that if there is a conflict between industry and environmental and natural interests, priority shall be given to environmental and natural interests. The case spokesperson was also concerned that the precautionary principle should be in force. Then we have a problem, because here we have a mining operation where there's a conflict like this that I'm now talking about. It is also surprising, I think, that even if operations are to be discontinued, millions are still to be spent on subsidising and extracting coal. Of course, it is a local problem and in conflict with the precautionary principle that we do so, and it will also be a major problem in relation to the transport side. We know what that means if one of the bulk ships to carry cargo from Svea Nord, basic noises in this area, and, if one gets oil spills, what disastrous consequences it can have in the sailing path that we know is narrow and dangerous. It is also a paradox, since we have had a gas power debate for many rounds, where much of the argument from those who are for gas power is that we have to limit imports of highly impurising Danish and Polish coal power, we have to limit imports of this cheap coal power, because it is climate-depleting – and we have agreed – that, through our policy on Svalbard, we are involved in this coal power being cheap, because we are subsidising extraction and because we ensure that the market gets resources to operate coal power so that the power is cheap and we have increased greenhouse gas emissions. One of the main challenges for us in the Storting is to make sure that one ends with this subsidization of coal, that one makes sure it gets the price right. And then the logic is clear, then a phase out the coal mining operations on Svalbard, as SV suggests in one of the suggestions we're behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e197	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e200	The Environmental Act for Svalbard represents an important improvement in the Svalbard legislation. It is an important signal of high Norwegian environmental ambitions. The left joins the bill with a few reservations and supports the objective of Svalbard being among the world’s best managed wilderness areas. It is positive that the law will have broad approval in Stortinget on 5 June, the World Environment Day. It has also been important that one in the treatment of the law has resisted pressure to weaken environmental ambitions. The left is pleased that the law introduces the precautionary principle and that one gets a whole set of provisions in one and the same law. On a few points, the Left, Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV want a more restrictive line than the majority. These batches want a more stringent line in the case of motorised movements, and the Left joins with the other centre batches and the SV against the Government's proposal that a delimitation should be made in relation to the management of saltwater fish, crustaceans and marine mammals that are not native to Svalbard. The left considers that the same principle must apply to countries at sea. We therefore support the setting of the sample to the Svalbard Environmental Act and want regulations on the management of the law to be drawn up accordingly. The question of coal operation was raised by SV. The government comes back with its own case about this to Stortinget. It was expected in ours, but is deferred because environmental organisations want more time to make recordings. It is natural that the Storting discusses the coal industry when the Government presents its case. In this respect, the left will place great emphasis on environmental considerations, and I will show that I recently addressed transport-related issues in the Akselsundet on issues with the Minister for the Environment. I would also like to make it clear that the Left is against subsidising the coal industry on Svalbard, precisely because one wants it to be the right pricing of this business, as Langeland was. The Left supports the proposal for a special tourist fee. It is a natural follow-up to the polluter-pays principle. The funds thus provided may include and finance the necessary remedial actions and meet the need for information. In the view of the Left, the legislative proposal is well in line with the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty on Norwegian sovereignty and the principle of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e214	I welcome the Committee's support for the Government's draft legislation on environmental protection at Svalbard. The proposal has been drawn up on the basis of the high environmental objectives of the island group — which has been confirmed several times by the Stortinget. The law sets a high standard for the management of the archipelago in line with Norway’s international commitments, while providing a good basis for proper balances between environmental objectives and the consideration of settlements, research and business. We have reached a long way in environmental protection at Svalbard, among others. because of an active protection policy. I am therefore pleased that the Committee considers it important to protect more vulnerable areas in Svalbard. We are currently working on a protection plan for biologically productive areas in line with the previous Stortingen decision. This is a process of its own coming to Stortinget at a later stage. I also point to the principle of the Government in favour of species both on land and sea — with some exceptions. I also point out that it is a significant extension from today, although it is an exception for some of the species that are walking. New activities outside the planning areas that may affect the environment, such as mining, will require permission from the Employment Manager. The law facilitates the provision of a good assessment basis as a basis for any authorisation. This applies, inter alia, to: the rules on impact assessments. The final decision will depend on the impact of the measure on the environment, in relation to nutritional and other considerations of squalidity. In this respect, I have noticed that the Committee believes that there should be a restrictive practice with regard to the authorisation and conditions for activities involving heavier off-site natural interference. It is a clear premise that the law is practised within the framework set by the Svalbard Treaty and in line with the overall objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. I have noticed that the Foreign Affairs Committee places considerable emphasis on this. I have also noticed that the Committee on Foreign Affairs emphasises the importance of ensuring that the introduction and practice of environmental protection regulations at Svalbard also takes account of foreign policy concerns in relation to other parties to the Treaties, including the continued pursuit of Russian business activities at Svalbard. I would like to point out that under the existing Svalbard legislation, efforts have been made to come up with solutions that protect both the environment and the interests of companies from the other parties to the Treaties, so that they are as satisfactory as possible for both parties. This approach will be continued and the Ministry will place considerable emphasis on continuing the good spirit of cooperation on the island group when the Swallow Environment Act is to be practised. The work on the bill has been done in the light of the introduction of local democracy in Longyearbyen, and the areas that should be transferred to the local government have been assessed. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that the planning responsibility, which in mainland municipalities is a local matter, should also be delegated to a local elected body on Svalbard. The introduction of local democracy has been a long process, and the assessment of what should be transferred to a elected body has changed somewhat during the process. In my view, the employee’s proposal that access to the setting of fees for waste and waste disposal schemes should also be able to be delegated to the local government is appropriate. I therefore agree with the majority of the committee on proposals to adjust Section 72 of the Act. The law provides new rules for traffic on Svalbard. All-man rights are expressly regulated, but because motorised movement in the terrain poses a risk of harm to both animal life and vegetation, while motorised movement is of concern to practitioners of the traditional non-motorised open-air life, all motor travel in the terrain is initially prohibited. The prohibition is a consequence of the law being based on the precautionary principle. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal and emphasises the need to regulate motorised traffic on Svalbard. The law provides a good basis for regulating the increasing movement in the terrain, such as: the increased activity of tourism and research. For the protection of the environment at Svalbard, this is a joyous day. The Svalbard Environmental Act, one of the main instruments for achieving the high environmental objectives of the archipelago, has been widely endorsed by both the Energy and Environment Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Ministry will, after the Act has been adopted, send to the hearing the regulations which must be in place before the law enters into force. In this context, attention will be paid to the minimum and the simplest of regulations, in order to ensure that the legislation is as transparent as possible. I aim to ensure that the new legislation can enter into force from 1 January 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e236	As I explained in my article, we are skeptical that all traces of human activity within a given period of time should be automatically defined as cultural memories. However, this is only to a small extent reflected in the law itself. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: will she, in preparing the regulations of the law, take into account that not all traces of human activity must necessarily be cultural memories, which unfortunately one sees examples of today, so that rusty cans and other scraps for the future are not necessarily protective, but that one rather concentrates on protecting real cultural memories?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e241	I want to point out the importance of cultural memories having a place in the law and getting an important place in the regulations. The increased protection of cultural memories also on Svalbard is in line with the general policy pursued by the Stortinget in recent years in relation to cultural memory. This shall be done in the sense and in the sense of the regulations, as is done in all the regulations drawn up by the Government in the light of decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. And here we have an opportunity to take care of and see in the context of the natural environment and the cultural environment in a good way that makes the cultural memory field a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e246	I asked some questions in my post that the Council of State probably did not have time to answer, but that she would have another chance to answer. The one thing is related to the climate problem. The government says it is committed to following up the Kyoto Protocol and contributing to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. The first question relates to this: if a subsidy subsidizes the extraction of coal on Svalbard, which helps the market to increase coal, which in turn contributes to the reduction of carbon prices, does the Minister for the Environment think that it is a good way and a good policy to meet the Kyoto Protocol's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions? The question is not of a different nature if a subsidisation is removed, because then a coal will still be delivered to the market by Norway, which will result in a non-price increase, which will be necessary to reduce emissions. Question no. 2 applies to species on land and in the sea and § 23. I lack a proper basis for why the government wants to differentiate between what is being protected to land, and what is being protected in the sea. Why would one want to limit this when it comes to so-called migratory species, in relation to the continuum, to say it in a special way? What's the basis for that? Would it not have been easier for the Government and for all of us to exercise oversight if one had equal rules? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e255	I remember that the coal industry on Svalbard has a very long history, a story far beyond the conditions that the representative Langeland now comes into his line to me. I also remind you that the Stortinget has recently had clear views on how to organise coal operations on Svalbard, among others. when the swallowing notification was addressed in the Storting not so long ago. The Government shall now return to Stortinget with an assessment of any further coal operations. We will come back to this matter on the basis of an assessment of an impact assessment and consultation, with a significant focus on environmental considerations, on the economic basis of operations, on housing and on alternative business activities in the future. It is in this broad light that the Government will assess the future business activity and also the coal operation of Svalbard. As for the protection of species on land and in the sea, I refer to what I said in my post, that it is appropriate to make a distinction quite simple because the species in the sea in this way cannot get adequate protection, because they are walking. That is why we want to involve these species in other protection contexts and have chosen to exempt them from the Swallow Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e262	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e267	It states in the setting that "Svalbard's flora and fauna are vulnerable and need a solid protection and protection regime". I fully agree with that. Therefore, I am somewhat concerned – although this is not stated in what is up to debate today – that the safety requirements of Svalbard seem to have been adjusted down to the mainland. In this connection, I am thinking of transporting coal at 75 000 tonnes through the Akselsundet. Those of us who have some bearings on the sea and boats know that such boats also push aside water under the keel, and they therefore need a minimum depth of 20 m. This means in practice that the size of the Akselsundet for these boats is twice the length of the boat. This means that you have to be careful with navigation. At Svalbard, neither the Los Law nor the Port and Water Law apply. It's a matter of concern from my and the Christian People's Party's point of view. They say you want to introduce port unloading. This means that you hire acquaintances, who in practice will be retired captains who have received a quick course; they have experience in the use of that type of boat, while at the same time being specialised in this area. However, I allow myself to point out that this seems to be a down-priority of safety requirements in relation to what is happening in mainland Norway. We know that there are pilots on duty who could contribute most to Svalbard. There must be some reason to choose such a scheme. From an environmental point of view, a basic support and possibly a possible release of fuel from these boats will be a disaster. I therefore allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment to pay particular attention to these things and to make sure that all this is assessed when going on in relation to what is going to happen, if there is an intensified deployment from Svea Nord. This is an area that is suitable for ground supports and contamination. It's not supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e274	I would just like to comment briefly on the issues raised by the Foreign Affairs Committee in its opinion on the vote. The Committee refers initially to its opinion on the suspension of last year, Innst. S. No 196 of 1999-2000 on Svalbard, where the Committee confirmed that the preservation of Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature was one of the overall objectives and a key challenge of svalbard policy. The Foreign Affairs Committee therefore underlines the need for restrictive practices in Svalbard activities which may involve heavy nature interference. Arctic nature is very vulnerable. It is necessary to exercise great caution and take all possible considerations to avoid damage to this unique wilderness nature that will be difficult to repair once the damage has been done. In addition, the Committee on Energy and the Environment has commented on this in a complementary and excellent way in its comments. Environmental considerations and considerations of efficient, profitable business activities will often conflict. It looks maybe extra obvious on Svalbard. In the interests of the environment, industrial restrictions must necessarily be more stringent on Svalbard than on the mainland. However, the Foreign Affairs Committee stresses that, under the Svalbard Treaty, environmental protection measures must be enforced equally against all the parties to the Treaties. The pursuit of activities in the Arctic must be limited. Everyone understands that, hopefully. At the same time, it is important that restrictions be implemented in such a way as to be fair, consistent and well-founded in relation to all parties to the Treaties. Foreign policy issues will necessarily also be linked to the practice of environmental protection regulations at Svalbard. These should also be part of the overall assessment of the implementation and practice of environmental protection measures. I took note of the Minister for the Environment's comments on this point and take it as confirmation that such matters will be included in the overall assessment. However, the Foreign Affairs Committee has considered it necessary to stress that the rights granted under the Mining Scheme could be delimited and modified in relation to other relevant Norwegian legislation, in order to ensure that the fundamental considerations of the Svalbard nature can be adequately addressed. Although, under Article 8 of the Svalbard Treaty, Norway was obliged to establish a mining system, this does not imply that the Mining Scheme itself has an international legal status equivalent to that of the Treaty. The scheme is to be regarded as a Norwegian legislation, adopted in kgl. the resolution, and must therefore be understood and interpreted in such a context, within the framework of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e291	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e305	The cause's rapporteur, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, is a member of the Laging House. The first speaker is Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e308	Through the discussion of the Svalbard message last spring, Stortinget agreed to the proposal to introduce a local governance system in Longyearbyen, cf. Inner. S. No 196 for 1999-2000. This is the background to the matter we are dealing with today. As case-rapporteur Kirsti Kolle Grondahl said in his statement at the time, the matter of the introduction of local government in Longyearbyen is over-mature. It was five years ago, in 1996, that the representatives of Gunnar Schaug and William Engseth presented a document. 8-proposals, in which they asked that the matter be investigated and promoted. It is therefore gratifying that this is now in place, and that there is such a broad consensus that this is an important matter for the Longyearbyen. It's a unanimous foreign committee behind today's setting. The Committee notes that the arguments for the establishment of an enlarged local government in Longyearbyen are the same as those justifying the continental municipal autonomy. The Committee further states: ‘By choosing their own local government, the citizens of Longyearbyen will have the opportunity to influence decisions and priorities relating to local conditions. Active and broad participation may in turn have a positive impact on the Community's sense of community.' As far as the Committee can see, the Government has followed up all the recommendations made in the Svalbard message setting. The framework for the introduction of local democracy in Longyearbyen – Longyearbyen local government – is included as a separate chapter in the Svalbard Act. The scope of the Local Government will be limited to the Longyearbyen Area Plan Area. This implies the establishment of Longyearbyen local government from 1 January 2002. The Svalbard Council shall be wound up from the same date. The Longyearbyen local government will take over ownership of Svalbard Societal Operation A/S, SSD at the time of creation. The Committee agrees that responsibility for social services is simultaneously transferred to Longyearbyen local government and that it must be up to Longyearbyen local government itself to determine the further fate of SSD. The Longyearbyen local government will be responsible for the exercise of authority in different fields of action, for the provision of public services and for development tasks. The Committee agrees with the setting of the proposed demarcation of the area of authority of the local government and that the staff member retains the authority of the other settlements and of the rest of Svalbard. The Committee acknowledges that a full municipal service offer will not be developed in Longyearbyen and that residents in Longyearbyen will therefore maintain continental connections with certain social services. The continental link is retained for the voting rights of local government, county councils and magnification. Like the Government, the Committee considers that the same rules as those applicable to the voting rights and eligibility of local authorities should apply to elections to Longyearbyen local government. The right to vote and the right to vote are those who, according to the population register of Svalbard, have a residence address in Longyearbyen. The Committee welcomes the fact that the view of the Grand Duchy on four-year electoral periods, similar to that of the mainland, has been used as a basis for local government elections. The first local government elections will take place in the autumn of 2001, the next autumn of 2003, and then adapt to the four-year period in which the local government elections are held on the mainland. As I mentioned at the outset, the overall and policy objectives for the development of the island group were drawn up in the setting of the Svalbard message, and in the annual svalbard budgets. Such overall political leadership, of course, forms the outer framework of local autonomy in Longyearbyen. The introduction of local government must therefore take account of foreign policy issues and the specific needs of the country for monitoring developments on the island group. Therefore, Longyearbyen cannot function entirely as an ordinary local government on the mainland. But a great many of the local government's tasks will correspond to that of the local government. The Committee endorses the Government's assessments of the responsibility for, and funding and execution of the service provision in general and of the infrastructure tasks. It is not appropriate for Longyearbyen Local Government to establish its own offer in areas to be maintained by the State. The Committee agrees with the Government that a solution to the future energy production and distribution network for electricity and district heating in Longyearbyen is not a direct economic consequence of the introduction of local democracy. However, the Committee shall have both in the Inst. S. No 196 for 1999-2000 and budget-inside. S. No 14 for 2000–2001 noted that these issues require a prompt solution. The energy supply in Longyearbyen today consists of a coal-fired power plant that supplies electricity and heat. Both the energy plant and the supply network need large investments for maintenance, upgrading and modernisation. The Committee remains of the opinion that the matter has to be resolved outside the annual budgetary framework and that the issue has to be resolved before the Longyearbyen local government, if any, assumes responsibility in this area. In order to ensure energy and power supply in Longyearbyen, broad and comprehensive competence is required. The Committee does not disregard the fact that that competence can best be ensured in cooperation with continental expertise. To this end, the Committee calls on the Government to consider whether it might be appropriate to allow Statekraft/Statnet to assume responsibility for these tasks in the future, in return for a certain remuneration. Economic governance and planning will be an important part of the activities of the local government. In this way, the Committee agrees that the City Council’s rules on financial plan, annual budget, annual accounts and reporting shall also apply to Longyearbyen local government. With regard to the administrative and economic consequences of the legislative changes, the Committee notes that the introduction of local democracy at a transitional and introduction stage will mean an increased need for grants. The Committee also recognises that the introduction of local democracy will also in the long term lead to an increase in administrative expenditure in Longyearbyen local government. The amount of the grant will be fixed in relation to the treatment of the State budget each year. The Committee considers it important that the judicial function and the prosecution function be separated. Although the local government does not have authority beyond the Longyearbyen Area Planning Area, the Committee subscribes to the Government's assessments that it is natural and appropriate to give the local government the power to select co-judges for the whole of Svalbard. The establishment of local democracy in Longyearbyen is based on the basic idea that any Norwegian society should be governed by a elected body. In a living community, participation and public responsibility are necessary. Even though Longyearbyen is not and should not be a life-cycle society, many people live there for a longer period of time. It is then important that they have the opportunity to participate in determining the development of their own community. Finally, I would like to express a wish that the people of Longyearbyen will take advantage of the opportunity they now have to determine the development of their community. Local exposure and participation is what is needed to fulfil the law's intention of more local influence and governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e349	With this setting, a solid foundation has been laid and passed an important milestone in adapting local democratic principles to the very special living conditions that we find in the outer edge of Norway, in the Arctic zone. It's a unanimous setting. I think this is due to a very thorough preparatory work, a good dialogue with the community, a good dialogue between the community and the ministry and big business, and of course also a certain amount of compromise. It has had to be there to get some consensus on some points. I think there is reason to praise the Svalbard Council for constructive contributions and for useful input in the design of the law. This also applies to the other Svalbard hearing bodies. Now, the partisan flora of Svalbard and Longyearbyen is not so diverse and rich. So far, there are three party layers active up there. Christian People's Party is one of the parties. But that's not exactly from here we can get the necessary support and help for any government change – to say it carefully. Our team consists of just a handful of people. Just the fact that a few people move from Longyearbyen to the mainland, is probably enough to put our whole batch machine and batch work up there at risk. One of the points of local democracy implementation is that it should mean the vitalization of party political work in Longyearbyen when Longyearbyen local government is now established. It is then obvious that the short residence period, or the annual target period, could represent a problem in relation to recruiting members who are willing to make a political effort in the local environment. At least that applies to the smaller batches. The Committee now stresses that the electoral lists should include a large number of candidates. All of us who have been with and tried to recruit people to the mainland electoral lists know that this is a quite significant challenge many times. So the Committee's desire to get electoral lists with a large number of candidates might seem more like a wishful dream than a realistic goal to achieve. The system of supplementary options is now in place. Of course, it can work in a positive direction. But I think it's going to be exciting to see how this could work in practice. We should probably be prepared for the necessary adjustments when experience with these schemes is gained over and over again. There has also been a certain discussion of the geographical scope of the new elected body. But the delimitation we've now been given, to Longyearbyen in relation to other settlements on Svalbard, now seems to have been widely accepted. The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg mentioned the energy production. It has been the subject of debate in the Svalbard Council and has taken on board the preconditions for taking over the important responsibility for energy supply at Svalbard. For its part, the Committee has taken the view that, as regards the costs of energy supply, it must be resolved outside the annual budgetary framework and that the scheme should be in place and detailed before the Longyearbyen local government, if any, assumes responsibility. I have noticed that I have had general support in the Svalbard environment. I have read the Svalbard post from last Friday, and it is said that it has a broad uprising in the Svalbard community. It is also satisfactory for the Svalbard Council. It is well for the whole setting that there is a general satisfaction with all the changes in the currently implemented svalbard law, including: in the light of the consultations carried out. This is the best basis for the good functioning of the new elected Svalbard system. All the amendments and all the objections and questions have actually been taken into account, as Svalbard's own bodies express it. I think that's more than what can be said about similar issues relating to local democracy on the mainland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e370	It is a little unusual for me to take the floor in a debate of this kind, but it is because former members of the Foreign Affairs Committee have left us, and we are therefore not in this position. In addition, I will be allowed to make known to the Storting that in the Progress Party we are moving towards the introduction of local democracy on Svalbard, with all the negative consequences it will have for what is now a living community of special character, a pearl and a sanctuary in many contexts in relation to gray, sad Norwegian municipalities. It is also true that not everyone today is on Svalbard, who has worked at Svalbard, who is so excited about what is happening now in establishing normal municipal administration up there in the ice. We had in our discretion both the advice and the opportunity to maintain this special society, the special atmosphere of this society. But then there are individual political parties that are so extremely concerned that everything should be equal and everything should be gray, and then death and life had to be initiated to establish so-called elected bodies on Svalbard, what is called democracy. You start with caution, it's okay, but it doesn't take very long before they have exactly the same system up there that we have on the mainland, and it doesn't take that long before this with a claim for less taxes and less taxes goes completely up there, and they're in line with a normal Norwegian municipality. I personally think this is sad. I have been a lot and often at Svalbard, and it was nice to get there. I'm not sure if it'll be as nice to come after you've got the so-called elected government. So there's one thing I'd particularly like to stress, and it's about the relationship with our Russian friends at Svalbard. A developed local self-government, democracy, a normal local government, can become – I don't say it will, but I say it can be – conflict-making in relation to the Russian settlements on Svalbard. We're going to think about that very carefully and be very careful not to happen. In the end, I just want to announce that we will vote in favour of §§ 5 and 25 and against all other paragraphs of the legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e389	It was a little bit of a post to continue after, especially when considering the views of the representative Alvheim on the relationship between democracy and popular government, which I understood he did not mean to have any connection with each other, and that was something surprising to me. The issue of the introduction of local governance in Longyearbyen has been the subject of wide debate. The proposal as it is now presented to the Stortinget is designed through a thorough political process, both locally and centrally. The matter was discussed in the big news about Svalbard, which was dealt with by Stortinget quite exactly one year ago. The present odelstingsproposition involves the legalisation of local democracy in Longyearbyen. The arguments for introducing an enlarged local government in Longyearbyen are the same as justifying the continental municipal autonomy. By choosing their own local government, the citizens of Longyearbyen will have the opportunity to influence decisions and priorities relating to local conditions. Decisions should be taken as close as possible to those concerned. This could provide better adaptation to local conditions and could stimulate increased involvement in community development by the local population. At the same time, specific conditions apply to Svalbard. The size underlined in its attitude to the Svalbard Communication that the introduction of local democracy in Longyearbyen had to take account of foreign policy issues and the specific needs of the state for control of the island group, including: due to the high national environmental objectives set for Svalbard. The social characteristics of Longyearbyen as a place of residence are also significant. Overall, this provides a different framework for a local governance system in Longyearbyen than on the mainland. This is also reflected in the legislation proposed for Longyearbyen local government. The rules have been proposed as a separate chapter of the Svalbard Act. The scope of Longyearbyen local government will be limited to the Longyearbyen area. It is foreseen that Longyearbyen local government will be established from 1 January 2002 and that the Svalbard Council will be wound up from the same date. The Longyearbyen local government will take over ownership of Svalbard Societal Management AS at the time of its establishment, and at the same time it is proposed that responsibility for the community services in Longyearbyen will be assigned to the Longyearbyen local government. The Longyearbyen local government must have a government – the local government – which will be the top agency in Longyearbyen. The Administrative Board shall be chosen by and among the inhabitants of the Longyearbyen. It is here that the representative of Solberg, on behalf of the rapporteur, has already mentioned, based on the rules governing elections to the local council, but with the opening of supplementary elections. The first choice will take place as early as the autumn, the next in the autumn of 2003, and then adapt to the same four-year period as the local government elections have in the mainland. The authority of the Local Council in each case will be set out in different laws, regulations and delegation decisions. In addition, Longyearbyen local government will be responsible for key infrastructure measures in Longyearbyen. These are in several areas the same tasks as the municipalities have, but with important exceptions, among other things. in the case of social services and care services, where responsibility will continue to lie with the mainland municipality of the individual. The Ministry of Justice is in the process of carrying out a review of the regulations in force and will ensure that the basis for the tasks of the Longyearbyen local government is up-to-date when the board takes up office at the next year’s turn of the year. In addition to the tasks assigned, Longyearbyen local government will have the opportunity to engage in other tasks. However, due to the specific circumstances of Svalbard, certain restrictions are imposed on the freedom of action of the Longyearbyen local government compared to that of the municipalities. The competence of the local government will include, inter alia: be limited by the obligations of Norway under the Svalbard Treaty. Furthermore, the proposed provision for the purpose of Longyearbyen is local government guiding the activities of the local government. This implies that overall and policy objectives for the development of the island group, as set out in the Svalbard Communication and in the annual Svalbard Budget, will form an external framework for local self-government in Longyearbyen. The responsibility for the tasks lies with the Local Council as its top body, but the Local Board decides how the work is to be organised and the powers exercised. The basic idea is that the local government itself should decide organisational issues relating to its own activities. This will include, inter alia: on the issue of how to resolve the acquisition of Svalbard Societal Operation AS. I have noticed what the Storting has said about future energy production and distribution in Longyearbyen and the need to find a solution to the challenges that lie here, before the Longyearbyen local government might assume responsibility. The government is working on the issue and aims to get back to the matter in the context of next year's budget. There are interesting and challenging tasks ahead of the community of Longyearbyen. We will follow developments with interest, and the ministry will pay great attention to assisting as far as possible and desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e421	It was the representative of the Progress Party, Alvheim, who made me use the precious time of Storting today. I cannot fully understand the expressed fear of the effects of democracy and how it will work in practice. But I have recorded Alvheim's views and opinions on his many journeys – some of these far away from the borders of his home country – and what a pattern he has as reference points. I believe that for those who have been with and built up the Svalbard community for many decades, it must be frightening to hear such statements today from the Parliament's pulpit. This is a population group that has taken some impetus for the community in a geographical area that both strategically and politically has meant so much to the nation – and today it is to be heard that a threat to the community and a threat to the community are falling under normal democratic principles for how to govern the community. Fortunately, it does not seem that the Progress Party here in the Grand Duchy in this matter is particularly representative of what is the current policy in this area. I think it is high time that this case was closed in Stortinget today. I think it will be an enrichment for the Svalbard community and for the individual political parties that the contact point should not be a local limited government that has its next contact point with the Employment Man. There are no democratic principles that should be a model for the Svalbard community, which are now beginning to resemble a normal society more and more. It's not like today that in this area we only have one big public owned enterprise that governs society after decisions made by the Ministry of Justice. Today we have hundreds of units, each of which is helping to secure our presence and stability in an area that will eventually mean more and more to the nation. When we have people who are willing to be there, one must have rights and obligations within this society that make this as attractive as possible, so that Svalbard can also in the coming decades appear to be an attractive society to live and live in, in the time it has the ability to function. I believe that the Right only has good experience with its contacts, with its local representatives. We get increased and better information than we would otherwise have. I do not see that in this case it would be a wish and not a goal to replace the good points of contact we have in the name of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e434	SV has joined a co-conspirator's committee in this matter, and we hope that what the Stortinge does today can be an important stimulus to local democracy at Svalbard. I would like to follow up on some of the things my practicemate, Kristiansen, was in with the Progress Party. If the representative Alvheim says he is sorry for the introduction of popular government – grey government, as he also said – I think there is a signal that gives cause for reflection. SV is of course interested in a democratic debate, not least against the fact that the Storting often gives up power through, among other things. The EEA Agreement, EU cooperation and various other matters. Of course, we are also concerned that one discusses the local economy with the angle of democracy when Stortinget weakens the local economy and it becomes difficult for the municipalities to prioritize. But from there to say that elected government is something you don't need, something you don't want, that it's gray, and that it's actually a sad day for Svalbard when it's introduced, is to go too far. Then one must be on the wrong track. Then the question of the Progress Party must be: What is it that they want, not just on Svalbard, but in all municipalities if it has, is so gray and spooky? The consequence must be that one has an option. Do they want municipalities driven by employees, and do they want to abolish elected government in all municipalities when it is so wrong to introduce it to Svalbard? There are these questions the Progress Party must answer when they attack with regard to the introduction of local democracy. I also don't understand what kind of experience the Progress Party has that makes them start a debate like what they're doing now. They've seen in their own party that the monarchy doesn't always work democratically. On the contrary, it may have been counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e445	Very briefly: I will not try to throw myself into an analysis of the representative Alvheim's attitude to democracy. But I can say that I agree with Kristiansen and Langeland's assessment. I asked for the word that it should not hang a misunderstanding here. The representative Alvheim pointed out that there could be a conflict with the Russian settlement on Svalbard. I just want to make it clear that what is now being decided is Longyearbyen local government. All the essentials of the Russian population don't live in Longyearbyen. Most of them live in Barentsburg, so they do not come under this rule. Longyearbyen local government and its role and authority are limited by § 33 of the law now proposed to the «area plan area of Longyearbyen». I think it's a little bit important that it gets confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e452	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e466	We record that the Foreign Affairs Committee does not add up to any debate on this matter. It was also very small that was said the last time the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, at the ratification a year and a half ago. That's good, not just because it's late tonight, but it's also a sign of health because it shows that our loyalty to international law and to following up international obligations is great. Not only are we completely agreeing party politics, but it's so of course we're going to ratify and follow up the Roma statutes of our law, that it might seem unnecessary to add something verbal. I still appeal to a few words on a day when Odelstinget is doing something as fundamental and symbolically important as adopting a separate law to implement the statutes of the International Criminal Court. The implementation of the establishment of the International Criminal Court is a huge redemption. It has been over 50 years of pregnancy before redemption. Fertility occurred in the fall of 1945 at the establishment of the International Military Court, which passed judgment in Nuremberg on the main German war crimes. One of the major objectives of the United Nations from the very beginning was to create an international court for war crimes, for crimes against peace and for crimes against humanity, as it is called in the Charter on which the Nuremberg judgment rests. The UN would be so much more effective than the former League of Nations, not least because of its ability to use power and to establish an international court. It calls the war paralyzed a lot of the United Nations' power of action. It was only in the 1990s that it was possible to put the congstant into life. New crime took place with the courts after the terrible events in Rwanda and Yugoslavia. Both of these courts have had and have their child diseases, and it benefits a general international criminal court. A year and a half ago, when we ratified the statutes, there was, in part, high-sounding criticism, especially against the Yugoslav Tribune. It wasn't effective enough, it was a small number of judges, and it didn't take the big criminals and the crimes. But now, in the last year, this court has just proved that it can also take the great – even the greatest – that it is able to take out charges and that the judgments come in series and rows. But these courts depend on the support of nations, as will the International Court of Justice. Of course, it depends on support for active actions, such as: the supply of offenders. However, Norway must also take responsibility for resources. We have seen that not giving enough resources to these courts is the most effective way to stop or train work and thus create dissatisfaction and lack of trust in the court. Norway must also show responsibility by accepting those convicted, and we must show responsibility by contributing to a wide range of recruitments to the courts. We must have courageous judges, we must have brave people in the prosecution unit, so that the court can be trusted. Moreover, the nations must show that they really believe that the Court should have real power and authority. Therefore, it is important that we implement the statutes through our own law and not just follow the principle of presumption. Some include: Amnesty International and the Norwegian Helsinki Committee have been concerned that we are creating rules of competence and not mandatory – can-rules and not shell rules. But the proposition shows that it has been taken care of by the introductory provisions of the law, which says that we have a duty to comply with the Court's requests. We also need to go through our penal code, both civil and military. We do not have satisfactory laws regarding this type of crime. We must look at the content of the criminal provisions. We have not described this kind of crime in our penal laws. We have to look at our criminal assessments, where the maximum limits are not in line with the statutes of the International Court of Justice, and we have to look at our rules of limitation. I agree with the Government's assessment in the proposition that we must have a thorough preparatory work. Therefore, these changes should be left to the assessment of the Criminal Felony Commission, but Odelstinget must today send a clear message in relation to the assessment to be made by the Criminal Felony Commission, namely that we want an improved criminal law. It's not about whether we're going to change the law, but how we're going to change it. With this law, we show that we mean giving power and authority to the new court. We accept that where the Rome Statutes go beyond Norwegian law, it is the Rome Statute that will apply, for example. as regards the rules on the obligation to testify to persons who would otherwise be bound by professional secrecy and who could also invoke the obligation of professional secrecy in the Norwegian courts. We show that we are serious about giving an international court the opportunity to investigate, to take legal action and to refer to final judgments in areas that have so far been completely sovereignly reserved to Norwegian courts and Norwegian authorities. Such a good agreement with the International Criminal Court is necessary if the future is to bring about matters where it must act for us as well. Not least, the connection is necessary for the symbol value and the signal we send to land that is more nearby that the court will have to act in relation to. Now I hear the president is cremating, so I'm just going to end up saying that when 30 countries have now ratified these statutes, we have to put our trust in the next 30 doing it quickly, so that the court can take effect. I hope that will happen quickly since there are as many as 139 states that have signed this Statute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e492	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 659]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e506	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e515	In this proposition, the government has presented proposals for amendments to the Pharmacy Act and the Medicines Act. These amendments include, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t amendments to the limitation of the ownership of a medicinal product by law to require wholesalers to submit data for statistics on medicinal products to provide procedural rules in cases where the rightholder of a medicinal product seeks to have the medicinal product included in the public reimbursement scheme, and the basis for charging reimbursement applications and medicinal products admitted to the public reimbursement scheme propose to replace the pharmacy fee by a pharmaceutical fee levied on wholesalers; In addition, some technical amendments to the two laws are proposed. The Committee supports the fact that some changes are already being made in order to eliminate some undesirable and unintended effects of the new Pharmacy Act. The Committee also points out that the consideration of competition and the availability of pharmacies services also speaks for some of the changes proposed by the Government. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party of Advances and the Right, shall ensure that all the amendments proposed by the Government are adopted, while the Party of Advances and the Right has some divergent proposals. I would like to point out, on behalf of the Progress Party, some of the changes to which it is submitted and to which the Progress Party is opposed. The research team wants hospital pharmacists to be released and operated in the same way as other pharmacies. This is important for the functioning of competition in the pharmacies market. If this is not done, there is a lot of talk about the pharmacies that per person. Today, the category of hospital pharmacy has a significant advantage in competing with other pharmacies. The progress party therefore wants to change the second paragraph of Section 2-5. The foreground party may see no reason why the concession to have a drug sale should automatically lapse if an on-site pharmacy is established. This would result in a weakening of competition and probably higher prices than if there had been competition at this site and drug sales had continued to exist. The Party considers that the legal text to which the supervisory authority is to be subject is not sufficient, since it is not clear who is to have the overall responsibility for the various tasks. Giving the State responsibility in the legislative text could lead to a pulverisation of responsibility. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is quite clear that this responsibility must be placed under the responsibility of the State Medicines Agency and that this must therefore be included in the legislative text. The Progress Party is deeply concerned that a new fee should be proposed for the examination of the application for reimbursement from the public interest under Section 9. The Norwegian patients and users of medicinal products consider that such a charge should not be imposed, as this could lead to higher prices, and that the more obstacles one puts in place to access the most effective medicinal products in the Norwegian market, the greater the risk of the Norwegian market being deprived. It would have been tempting for the Progress Party to take a complete rematch on the Pharmacy Act in this case. We didn't choose to do that. The proposals we have now chosen to make in this matter, and possibly to oppose them, are proposals in which the paragraph has already been proposed by the Government. The Progress Party accepts that the Pharmacy Act has been passed in Stortinget, and we will allow this law to work for a while before we will promote the proposals for amendments that we believe are the right ones. Finally, I would like to address the proposals tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e559	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e562	The Labour Party is well pleased with the changes proposed by the Government, which now appear to have a majority in Odelstinget. These changes will improve access to pharmacies services for users throughout the country. Norsk Medisinaldepot takes on a special responsibility for setting up pharmacies, including in the districts, unless other pharmacists or chains want to establish new pharmacies. The number of pharmacies will rise, and there is room for a net increase in pharmacies. It will also be possible to make better use of pharmaceutical products. The new law will also guarantee that the establishment of new pharmacies will not be subject to competition from drug sales. This will provide a better offer and better service for the users. Professionals in pharmacies can provide information and advice to customers to a greater extent than can be done in drug sales. The size of the population has adopted the policy objectives for access to medicinal products. The administration of the pharmacy, which is the executive authority, shall follow up and use the means available to achieve that objective. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee agree with the Government that the previously adopted concession ceiling should be replaced by an agreement to ensure pharmacies. The majority believe that protecting established financial interests is not a health policy objective. Loss of concession caps will increase competition in a previously overprotected pharmacy market. The establishment of several pharmacies throughout the country will facilitate better service, easier accessibility and lower prices for users. The working party also considers it appropriate that the wholesalers of medicinal products should be obliged to submit data on the marketing of medicinal products, which in turn will ensure that customers receive the legitimate discounts. In order to have a more rapid procedure and to ensure quality in reimbursement cases, the majority of the Committee is responsible for imposing a procedural fee. For manufacturers, it is an advantage to have a medicinal product registered under the reimbursement scheme. In this case, it is also natural that expenditure on the processing of requests for reimbursement is reflected in the handling charges. The former pharmacy fee will be replaced by a wholesale pharmaceutical fee. The majority of the Committee has supported the Government in all proposals for amendments to the Pharmacy Act and the Medicines Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e575	We can make this pretty short. The rapporteur has explained what the Committee agrees on and the spokespersons of the Workers' Party have explained the position of the Committee. The Christian People's Party is part of this majority. We see the need for adjustments on some points in a recently adopted law, and support, as I said, the majority position. I just want to briefly point to two relationships. Together with the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the SV, the Christian People's Party participates in a majority which is somewhat skeptical that the Ministry concluded an agreement with Norsk Medisinaldepot on the maintenance of the pharmacy offer in the districts without other pharmacists or pharmacies being given a similar offer. Secondly, the new pharmaceutical fee is intended to replace the pharmacy fee. What we want to emphasise, as is also stated in the suspension, is that this ‘fee shall not have an unintended distortive effect on competition, that the charging system shall be neutral in terms of pharmacies size, and that collection and payment shall be as simple as possible’. In line with this, I make my post here as simple as possible, and end with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e588	It's called from the Government that it's a priority goal to maintain a good pharmacies coverage in all parts of the country. The Odelstingsproposition that we are dealing with today is supposed to be an adjustment to the new Pharmacy Act Stortinget adopted on 2 June 2000. What is alarming is that the government in this matter has taken on the freedoms that the law does not provide. The Minister of Health, without convening with Stortinget, has signed a unilateral agreement with one of the pharmacists, Norsk Medisinaldepot. The agreement states that the authorities should not apply a cap to concessions, except that the NMD undertakes to ensure the operation of a district pharmacy. In Ot.prp. No 61 it says: ‘The entry into force of the Pharmacy Act to establish concession ceilings was not used on this basis when the Act came into force on 1 March 2001.’ Thus, the Minister of Health has not applied the provisions of the Pharmacy Act which allow the regulation on establishment control in the form of an upper ceiling for central loop concessions. The Ministry believes that the agreement with NMD is better than the concession ceiling, and that the agreement applies to the closure of pharmacies in one of the municipalities concerned, but only if it is clear that no other operator wants to establish itself there. It sounds good, because it's the purpose of the Center Party that we should have district pharmacy. And it seems that such an agreement can ensure, at least during the contract period until 1 March 2004. But then a lot of damage can be done. For it is not just about the profitability of each pharmacy in the districts. It's mostly the professionals there's scarcity. When the establishment goal is not to apply, all actors, including the NMD, can establish themselves in central strata, and – for me – may compete for those who need drugs there. But at the same time, they compete with district pharmacists and prescriptions. It's the bottleneck! We have not had closures in piles of pharmacies in small towns. People are sick enough to make it pay to have pharmacies outside Oslo. But it will pay more to have pharmacies in public areas, and one will probably also be better rewarded by working in pharmacies in central districts. That is what the Center Party together with the Christian People's Party and SV are concerned about when we are critical of the agreement with the Norwegian Medical Pot. This agreement ensures that the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Progressive Party recall when they refer to the clear rule of deregulation and freedom of establishment of all those who fulfil objective, professional requirements for pharmacy. This majority claims that ‘there is no health policy objective to protect established financial interests. Loss of concession ceilings will increase competition in a previously overprotected market, thus facilitating better service, better availability and lower prices’. I remind you that in the same law, a paragraph was inserted to prevent the over-establishment of pharmacies in central districts at the expense of pharmacies anywhere else. This is the roof of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party will now remove with a pen stroke. In the long term, I believe that there is a high risk that there will be a reduction in the availability of the non-centralised population. They will also not receive the same service, and they will also receive an animal and a long journey. It is alarming that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has negotiated a unilateral agreement with Norsk Medisinaldepot, which is no longer more Norwegian than the name itself. It is alarming that it has been done without the Storting being informed, it is alarming that the case has not been sent out to the relevant authorities at the hearing, and it is alarming that no actors other than the NMD have been given the opportunity to be a contractual partner with the State. The members of the Social Committee of the Workers' Party point out that ‘it is the executive authority — the pharmacies administration — that is to follow up and use the instruments in place to achieve the objective’. Well, says the Center Party, Christian People's Party and SV. But it is just a central instrument that is now being removed with the concession ceiling. We do not find it so strange that the Right and the Advance Party support the Labour Party here. We are much more alarmed that the Workers' Party will remove the concession ceiling in favour of a short and, in our opinion, short-term agreement with the NMD. I belong to those who are concerned that it will not take so long before the various pharmacies and pharmacies have fought their establishment struggle in the centre and confiscated so many professionals that there is a risk of having to shut down pharmacies because of lack of qualified staff, and because the pharmacies struggle may come to push up wages, so that it is difficult to follow up for pharmacies with less population base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e621	Several of the previous speakers have withdrawn the agreement with Norsk Medisinaldepot and questioned it. SV participates in the comment on the agreement and agrees with the considerations that have emerged, now also from Morten Lund. But there's one more thing that I want to draw out, and that SV will emphasize. When the Stortinget had previously been submitted to the Pharmacy Act for treatment, and the Social Committee issued the Innst. O. No 52 for 1999-2000, underlined a majority in the Committee, which consisted of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, the need for an upper limit, i.e. a concession ceiling, for the establishment of pharmacies in central districts, and expressed satisfaction that regulations could achieve this. The reason for that was quite logical. It is clear that if you get a high degree of pharmacies in the centre — and you are also dependent on professionals at the different pharmacies — you will easily have a situation where you may exacerbate the possibility of recruiting professional staff for smaller municipalities. There is a situation that you can already see today. There are very many Norwegian municipalities in the districts that have had difficulty recruiting professionals. The Ministry of Government, through such a regulation, would have been able to provide leadership also in relation to possible sales or arrangements linked to central loop concessions. There were at all given instruments through the law that the Government here refuses to use. One might imagine that the same majority who had comments the previous time were dealt with and underlined the need for concession caps, agreed to comment that the department did not follow up that remark. But instead, you can see that that majority has now become a minority by the fact that the Workers' Party itself no longer underlines the importance of a concessional cap. And that's what I think is alarming, because it marks a new line from the Workers' Party in terms of views on recruiting professionals to the districts. The problem here is very parallel to the one you've seen in medical practice. By operating operational grant schemes, by not concluding contracts relating to some doctors where the establishment is already very close, you can see that you can achieve a distribution profile that is different from opening concessions, or that you have an open right to set up. And so will the pharmacy. The working party is now included in a note which states: ‘The majority consider that the protection of established financial interests is not a health policy objective. Loss of concession ceilings will increase competition in a previously overprotected market, thus facilitating better service, improved availability and lower prices. The majority therefore support the non-applying of the concession ceiling.» This is a consideration that I am not in any doubt that the Right and Advance Party will be able to sign now, just as they could when we dealt with the pharmacy law itself. However, the Labour Party then argued against such a consideration, precisely on the basis of the need to achieve a better distribution of personnel, and because a purely competitive situation, in which one has a free establishment in central districts, could hinder the recruitment of skilled personnel to the districts. I would therefore like to ask the Labour Party to explain the reason why the arguments they made in the field when they were dealt with by the Pharmacy Act are no longer valid. What kind of situation has arisen, and what kind of changed assumptions are the reasons why the Workers' Party has now changed its view, so soon after the Pharmacy Act was adopted and applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e639	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The regulatory time for tonight’s meeting is now over. [[See page 660]] The President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map is finalised – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e655	In this proposition, several proposals for changes to the Social Services Act have been made. In order to ensure legal certainty for recipients, there are three main instruments: internal control of the provision of services, rules on complaint and handling and external supervision of the municipal service. In recent years, municipalities have been given responsibility for new user groups, and more are now receiving services in private homes and book collections rather than in institutions. This has led to the need to extend the supervision of the county to non-institutional services and, at the same time, to change supervisory methods. System audits have been successfully tested, combined with the municipalities' internal control. This has proved to be effective, and the Committee is committed both to the extension of supervision and to the new form of supervision. The proposal also proposes an extension of the working time of Chapter 6A of the Social Services Act. Those rules entered into force on 1 January 1999 and were to apply until 31 December 2001. They shall provide the basis for drawing the line between the legally acceptable coercion in care and treatment and unacceptable use of power. For the entire subject, developing professional standards is a major challenge. The Committee has noted that there have been some headlines in the media about square understanding of the rules. Among other things, advice in the municipality of South Odal has underlined this to relatives and care professionals. The rules of procedure laid down in this Chapter are too extensive and the Committee is required to consider the possibility of simplification when evaluating the law. The Council for the Evaluation of Practices and Legal Security under the Social Services Act has proposed that the working time of the law be extended by two years and that the Council’s term of office be extended by six months. This is identical to the Ministry's proposal, and the Committee agrees with this on the grounds that the law seems to function largely according to the intentions, and that one should have a good enough basis for evaluating it. In the proposal, it was proposed not to impose legal requirements on municipalities to establish internal control of care services, nor was it desirable for the Ministry to establish regulatory guidelines on the quality of care services under the Social Services Act. The members of the Labour Party in the Committee agree with the majority that this regulation will bring about harmonisation of the Local Health Service Act and the Social Services Act, but the Labour Party supports the Ministry that we will have to have a simplification of the legislation in the long term to ensure that the responsibilities of municipalities for quality assurance can be more comprehensive than today. The members of the Labour Party agree with the Ministry that we need to have a simplification of the state legislation, so that the local government sector is given more freedom of action and is not guided in detail in areas where they have full responsibility. Nevertheless, we did not find that the time is ripe for such a responsibility now. The follow-up of the Quality Regulation by the County Health Service Act has shown that there is a need for external pressure in addition to guidance in an initial phase. Since these are weak groups that are affected, we want regulation now. After entering the county's system audit and training of the municipalities, we in the Workers' Party want to come back with proposals for such simplification and preferably a comprehensive supervisory and complaint legislation. The majority of the Committee considers that such a regulation should govern a locally adapted service offer and does not believe that this would be detailed governance. With different approaches from the members of the Committee, there is now a unanimous vote, which I recommend to Odelstinget to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e676	I shall, on behalf of the Centre Party, receive only some comments on this matter. What is it that gives good care? It's probably primarily the possibility for the individual to be met with respect and respect. I think most of us will agree that we can't regulate and legislate good care and care adequately if we don't have the will, the hold, and the knowledge of what such services involve. I have here a circular, which was sent out in March 1997, dealing with the quality of care services. It consists of both a regulation in relation to health services and guidelines in relation to care services. The background for that in St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000 on the content and quality of care services were notified of a coordinated supervision, experience of the need to see the services in hospitals, in old people’s homes and in open-ended care more closely, as the provision of care and care now goes a little way around each other in different types of institutions and housing. It was very surprising to us that the Labour Party was not initially prepared to follow up with a more coordinated supervision and regulation. There was something that the Stortinget agreed to during the handling of Care 2000, and there was also something to which 62 out of 64 hearing statements were positive. I'm now happy that there's a lot of agreement that this is necessary. From our point of view, we would like to stress that this is not primarily about giving new duties to the municipalities, but actually about making them much more tidy both for the individual user, the individual caregiver and caregiver, for the relatives, the added and the local people. When it comes to the advisory group created in relation to the laws on control of the use of force and coercion against mental retardation, I would also like to add that it is a pleasure to record what they report as compared to the fact that the use of registered coercion actually goes down. It was also a matter of great debate on when the laws were introduced. It was a new round when the regulations were submitted to Stortinget, actually as a separate message. From the Central Party we would ask the Ministry to pay particular attention to the development of alternative methods of coercion in educational institutions. If we are to have further reduced use of coercion, it is particularly important that educational institutions are prepared to develop alternative methods. Otherwise, as the vote shows, we agree that advisory groups will have the time they have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e691	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5 [[See page 662]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e705	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. The President will also propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e714	This motion for a resolution contains eleven issues relating to changes in the Law on Social Security. The Committee has comments in relation to three of them. This applies for the first time to point 2 of the Common Code on Training Institutions and Health Sports Centres etc., so-called Special Health Institutions, in the People's Security Act § 5-20. As rapporteur of the case, I asked, in a letter to the Ministry of Health dated 4 May 2001, for clarification of the point to establish an equal financing system for all institutions by providing a rate-based benefit, which could vary, and that all institutions could take part. The uncertainty was particularly whether the four special health institutions covered by the hospital law, and now the specialist health service law, should also introduce excesses. The letter from the Ministry of Health dated 8 May indicated that this proposal for a change in the Law on Social Security did not propose the introduction of a partiality for these four. The Committee has also noted that the professional requirements for the services are to be linked to the Special Health Service Act and that the financial settlement is to be linked to the public interest. By introducing this common legal basis, the Committee points out that this does not mean that one departs from the principle of adapting the operating grants of the public interest to the tasks and arrangements of each institution. However, during the examination of this matter, the Committee has received many requests from institutions which feel uncertain about the consequences of this proposal. In their planning of treatment, these institutions have brought together applicants in groups with very similar treatment needs in order to carry out the best possible and effective treatment. The concern from these is that if the social security offices are to assess each individual application after this amendment, they are uncertain whether it can lead to a less effective admission procedure and treatment. Such additional proceedings are contrary to all the principles of modern public administration. In the light of these enquiries, as rapporteur of the case, I ask the Department to investigate the effects of this change. The overall objective for us is to organise treatment provision for the benefit of patients. This must take place within an acceptable time-frame and by making responsible use of foreseeable financial framework conditions. With regard to point 8 of the preamble to clarifying the rules on the recognition of injury or disease as a professional injury in § 13-2 of the Swedish Social Security Act, the majority refers to an interview on this on 2 May of this year, where the Minister of Justice stated that the Government should set up a public sample to assess simplifications. The Labour Party and the Right await this sample, while a minority now have a proposal that decisions on occupational injury be taken in a single competent body. I expect the minority to explain the proposal. In paragraph 10 of the position, on transitional aid, the relationship with other popular benefits etc., the first paragraph of Section 15-14 of the People's Security Act, the Progress Party has its own note. As regards the other eight amending proposals, the Committee has no comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e742	The Christian People's Party believes it is good that a constant effort is being made to simplify and clarify the law of popular peace. We support most of the changes. However, we cannot support a common regulatory framework for the training institutions and health sports centres as presented today. It's very unclear what the government really means. The proposal argues that the training institutions and health sports centres are not fundamentally different and should therefore have an equal funding mechanism. It implies ‘the ability of all institutions to take a stand’. Letter from the Minister of Health dated 8 May of this year clarifying that the proposal to introduce a common basis for social assistance to both types of institutions by means of a common provision of Sections 5 to 20 of the Law on Social Security does not imply the introduction of self-employed persons at the special health institutions which are currently exempt from self-employment. So what's the change going to be? Users are not in doubt that a common regulatory framework will result in a self-employed health service being imposed on a self-employed person. Both the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease and the Association of Norway's Handicap Association have strongly protested. Nordic research has shown that disabled people have lower incomes than the rest of the population. This was one of the reasons why, in the context of the rehabilitation message, the Social Committee stated that it is unacceptable for people in need of rehabilitation to be unable to do so because of limitations in the private economy. This was also the reason why an overall committee introduced an equal proportion of trades in all training institutions. It is surprising that in the revised national budget, the government of Stoltenberg will increase this proportion, just under six months after the decision in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party will wait until the new rehabilitation plan is completed. Many training institutions are struggling with the economy, and there will soon have to be a clarification. A more detailed examination of the changing framework conditions for health sports centres is required. On this basis, we are voting against the proposal of §5-20. We will also be voting against the proposal of Section 13-2 of the People's Rights Act, and instead we propose that the Government return to the Stortinget with proposals for amendments that lead to «the adoption of a decision on occupational injury in a single competent body», and that the decision is binding on all those who have obligations in relation to occupational injury. Such a system will simplify the situation both for the injured worker and for the treatment of both the social security system and the insurance companies. In doing so, I take up the proposal of the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party under § 13-2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e769	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e772	I'm not going to extend the debate that much. With regard to the point of the training institutions, we are in line with the representative Woie Duesund, and I fully support what the representative said from the pulpit. We will also vote against that paragraph and support the proposal that lies there. What I'm taking the floor for is the interpellation that I signed on 2 May, which had to do with occupational injury. This is a very important matter. It is very important that those affected by this are now given a better opportunity both to present their case, to a simpler procedure and not least to facilitate settlement. It turns out that a lot of people actually feel that you are not just being hit by a job injury, but you get a new blow on your face when you have to go what I have to say seems like a canoeing process before you achieve the benefits you are entitled to. However, unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of the proposal that we are behind, asking the Government to submit to the Stortingeten proposals for amendments to the law on social security that lead to ‘decisions on occupational harm are taken into account in a single competent body and become valid for other providers’. I think it is very sad that you now do not take this step, extend this hand to those who come in this situation, and make sure that we now resolve the matter once and for all. That's not the case, and we just have to take note of that. The Progress Party is only about one comment, and it is about the fact that foreign labour income does not make up for the provision of social security benefits in Norway, and ‘in the opinion of these members, neither should it be included in the income base in the income test of benefits from social security’. However, the Progress Party points out that the majority of the Stortinge supported the amendments promoted by the Government in Ot.prp. No 46 for 1998-99, and refers to notes in the Innst. O. No 8 for 1999-2000 to point 15 on the income test of retirement pension by income abroad. However, the Progress Party will support the proposal to amend the first paragraph of Sections 15 to 14 in order to avoid discrimination between beneficiaries of public benefit. In the case of Section 13-2 of the Law on Social Security, on Occupational Damage, the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e791	I asked for the word to comment on SV's views on two things. One is in relation to § 5-20 and the aggregation of the guidelines for health institutions and training centres. What we have seen in recent developments in training centres themselves is very unfortunate, namely that there has been a distinction between Group 1 and Group 2 institutions, where there have been quite reasonably different reimbursement arrangements. Differences are becoming more and more apparent, and institutions that initially have significantly higher operating costs – the Group 1 institutions – because they also have a much wider offer to offer, sometimes receive less reimbursement than the Group 2 institutions. It's a little bit on the side of this problem, and I'm fully aware of that, but here you take a step further and combine the guidelines for health care institutions and training centres. It is a little unclear for SV how to think in the long term about such a scheme, but here too SV believes that you have no reason to rush. You can look at an investigation into rehabilitation and bring it back as a matter of its own later. We will oppose the proposal for a change in the law regarding § 5-20 of the Law on Population Security. Then for occupational injuries. In the case of occupational injuries, the use of resources today must be very inappropriate. Assessment of occupational injury is a complex medical assessment in combination with regulatory review. Determining the degree of medical disability, which is decided upon in the event of a professional injury, is a type of professional assessment which requires long training, which requires good insight, and which does not at least give rise to major deviations if different bodies are to carry out that assessment in parallel. What must then obviously be appropriate is to develop a competence in the administration of popular security, ensuring professionalism in the assessment, of course with the necessary appeals, which you also have today, right through to social security, but where the various insurance companies have to deal with the decision that the Riksstrøgdeverket has taken. What else arises is a situation in which there is a large, partly unexplained difference between the various insurance companies. A lot of resources are spent first on doctors in public health, i.e. counsellors, making an assessment, making decisions, and then applying for a benefit, through the same canoeing process under the direction of some private insurance company. It's so obvious that this is inappropriate, that it shouldn't be difficult for the government already to take the grip of coordinating this into one scheme. Now I do not know whether the term'swine in the forest' is a parliamentary or unparliamentary expression, but to the extent that it can be used, it is clear that in the case of occupational damage, the government has several things in its cabinet that should emerge. SV has made proposals on occupational disease and on the equivalent of occupational injury, in particular in the case of stress disorders. We have received a majority in Stortinget so that the government would investigate this further and come back to Stortinget with it as its own case, but it has now been at least two years without anything happening. I would like to mention here that it is high time that this matter was dealt with by the Government, and that it must be expected during the autumn session of the new big business that that matter will come back to Stortinget. There is already a technical assessment by occupational physicians recommending that occupational diseases should be recognised under certain conditions and, in particular, stress disorders, and include them within the concept of occupational injury. SV agrees with the proposals that are otherwise available, but we would like to make the comments that I have made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e804	The Central Party's member of the Social Committee is Ola D. Glötvold. He's not a member of the Odelstinget, so there's a slightly different involvement from the centre party when it's a matter of Odelstinget. From us also short notes on two points. Firstly, we are involved in the proposal that both the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the SV have already referred to here, and that concerns decisions on occupational injury. We also want this decision to be taken in one competent body, and we want a case back to the Storting relative to it. The other liabilities are rehabilitating. Expectations have been created here when it comes to rehabilitation. The size has previously given its connection to a message provided by the Center Management – Responsibility and Meisterstring – where a central element was a local coordinator. The center editor also starts a work relative to attributes, a roof l and a roof 2. The last thing was to screen chroniclers and major consumers of health services. We from the Center Party are not satisfied with the fact that the Labour Party has put this arrangement aside. It was an arrangement where the Storting had joined the intentions, where it was really desirable to sort by property. Now the Labour Party says in the budget that there is an average own-payment of approximately NOK 3000 for those services that are not covered by the Free Card Scheme. For beneficiaries of basic and auxiliary assistance, the total amount of the own payment is NOK 8 000 per person. years per year. person other than the credit card scheme. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that some users and groups have accumulated assets as very much higher than the average number. We from the Center Party are not content with the fact that the Government does not find it possible to establish a ceiling for expenditures that people with chronic disorders and disabilities are burdened with and that others do not have. So the government put in lower properties, among other things. link to training institutions, as a compensation in the budget for the year 2000. The latter is called the Minister of Finance in the last spontaneous Question Time. But then you're going to feel that the properties of the training institutions are increasing. It's between 190 and 220 kroner per year. 24 hours. In itself, 30 kroner is not a large amount, but it actually means 840 kroner at the extra cost of one that needs four weeks at the training institution. In fact, it means that many people will have to refrain from retiring from training even if the need is clearly present. When the government in the matter that we are now dealing with, suggests common rules for training institutions and health sports centres, we will stress from the Center Party that such a proposal should not have been made without one having had a process in advance, where one listened to those bodies this debt, where one knew what the consequences would be. One should also see this in conjunction with a comprehensive rehabilitation plan. That's why the Centre Party finds it necessary to vote against today's proposal. We thought it was very defective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e821	I note that the Committee subscribes to all the proposals contained in this joint proposal. The proposals concern minor changes in reality as well as regulatory adjustments for the purpose of clarification and simplification. They have hardly any financial consequences. I therefore find no reason to explain in detail the individual proposals. However, on a few points there have been questions about interpretations, which give rise to certain clarifications. This applies primarily to the proposal to amend the provisions of the Law on Social Security applicable to training institutions and special health institutions, including health sports centres. Today, there are two different paragraphs of the People's Security Act that provide them with social benefits. Residences at training establishments are supported by § 5-22, while the special health institutions are covered by Section 5-20. The Government's proposal is to draw up a common regulation for the two types of institutions. Such a provision shall be governed both by the Act on Specialist Health Services and by the Law on Social Security, and for the latter by the aforementioned Sections 5 to 20. Therefore, an amendment to this paragraph is proposed. This change will allow both types of institutions to receive financial benefits under the same law. The proposal to amend the legislation will make it easier to see different offers in the context. At the same time, it is important, and of course fully possible, to take care of the peculiarity that, among other things, health centres have developed. Although a common basis of accounting for economic benefits and settlement is thus established, this does not mean that a single social welfare and settlement system is in place. And that's where some interpretation questions have arisen. Since the intention of the proposals, inter alia: I would also like to take this opportunity to make it clear that the proposal on the common basis of law does not involve any proposal for the introduction of a special allowance for stays in the special health care institutions, including in health sports centres. I have also noticed that, after the presentation of the proposal, there have been counter-conceptions towards a premise in the proposition that the social security fund should also be approved for the special health care institutions. As indicated in the proposal, such a change will lead to some additional work for the social security system. In view of this and the other problems that the proposed change may entail, I have come to the conclusion that it is not appropriate to make this assumption applicable. In other words, it does not mean that the social security system will in the future approve individual stays at the special health institutions. In addition to this, I would like to mention briefly that the social security system provides certain special advantages in addition to the ordinary social security scheme in the event of occupational injury. In order to obtain such specific benefits, the injury or disease must be approved as a professional injury. The Ministry proposes to clarify that the recognition of occupational injury by a social security office shall apply only in relation to the specific benefits which the social security office has the competence to grant, and not in respect of benefits which are determined, for example. by a county office. The purpose is inter alia: a somewhat faster and simpler procedure in less serious occupational injuries. A minority of the Committee has made proposals to ask the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for amendments, so that decisions on occupational injury from one competent body are binding in relation to other providers. In this context, I would like briefly to point out that a public sample is set up to assess the organisation and procedure of occupational injury. In this context, the aspects of the procedure addressed by the minority will also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e848	I really didn't intend to take the floor because the Right's views are well explained by other parties, but it was the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who made me take the floor. There will be great boldness to assert, as I perceived the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, that the Bondevik administration was especially concerned with showing restraint when it came to introducing new and increasing old excesses in the healthcare system. That's not right. In rare cases, some governments have proposed such large increases in excess of the two-year government Bondevik. And it is directly wrong to claim, as I believe the representative Meltveit Kleppa did, that the government of Bondevik made proposals for both a roof 1 and a roof 2. It was a majority that the then government parties were not in, which ordered the government to come back with – which, at least, they did not. The right is a member of the health care system’s adjuncts – moderate excesses. We think it makes sense to control the resources where they are most needed. It is not unreasonable to contribute certain excesses for many health services, and that is why we have previously argued that health sports centres and training institutions should be looked at in this context. They are not so different, so when we have some large, high excesses at the training institutions, while there are no excesses at the health sports centres, we have suggested that we should look at this and rather get common excesses for both types of institutions on the condition that the excesses of the training institutions can be reduced, because they have gradually become so high that they actually prevent many from using those offers, which are important in order to get back to work more quickly, or to be able to be rehabilitated. That is why we supported the proposal put forward in the current year's budget to reduce the prob lems of the training institutions, and that is why we do not intend – I think I can reveal – to support the proposal that this reduction should only last six months, as the Government has now felt it would be. I hope that the Storting by a large majority, if not unanimously – perhaps even – will reject this when we come to the review. But I'm in favour of the temptation to fly there too, since some boasts of things they haven't done, but maybe they should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e860	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 663]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e868	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e875	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, proposal No. 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a plan to cut down on Svalbard coal production, including a plan to set up business to replace the jobs lost in the closure of the coal industry.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e1172	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 23 is replaced by the following:The rules of this chapter apply to all terrestrial and marine flora and fauna.’ [[Chapters scope]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e1859	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e1922	Point (a) of the first subparagraph and the second subparagraph shall be accompanied by an aberrant proposal, point (a). 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 81, first paragraph, point (a) shall be replaced by the following:(a) in the lines defined by the Ministry in Regulation.§ 81, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Requirements shall be laid down after point (a) of the first subparagraph, where the possibility of access to motorised traffic is justified by real transport or recreational needs.’; [[motor travel in the terrain on snow cover and frozen land]] Alternatively, between point (a) of the first paragraph of the setting and the second paragraph of this proposal and the first paragraph of the setting letters (b) and (c) of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2010	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 85 shall be deleted.’; [[right to own or rent cabins]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2332	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2341	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2395	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2660	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Does the Progress Party wish to vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2676	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2691	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2868	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2877	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2884	In the course of the debate, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, put forward two proposals, no. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2907	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Advance Party, to Section 2-2, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Pharmacy Act shall be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 2-2 shall be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e2978	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2-5, second paragraph, is replaced by the following:Concession for hospital pharmacy may also be granted to a private applicant who meets the requirements of Section 2-2, cf. Paragraphs 2-3. This applies even if the requirement in points (c) or (e) of the first paragraph of Section 2-3 is not met.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3006	For the second sentence, an aberrant proposal, paragraph 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 2-7(a) second sentence shall be replaced by the following: Permit to have a medical sale may be revoked at 6 months' notice.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3039	There is also an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 8-1 shall be replaced by the following:§ 8-1 The Authority of the Member States’ Medicines Agency is the supervisory authority and supervises the compliance with pharmaceutical requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3094	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on medicinal products, etc. Paragraph 6 shall be replaced by the following:The King may lay down rules on the procedure for the application by the rightholder of a medicinal product for the authorisation of the medicinal product for public reimbursement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3155	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3178	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3187	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3338	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3347	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3354	During the debate Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security, which result in decisions on occupational injury being taken in a single competent body and becoming valid for other providers.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3388	The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3489	The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3602	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2105e3611	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
