ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e144	The President will propose that the Stortinget examine the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before we start considering the agenda, it is a pleasure for me to welcome Parliamentary President Heinz Fischer's delegation from the Austrian Parliament to the Stortinget – to an official visit to Norway. We wish you a good stay and hope and look forward to pleasant and useful conversations. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President can already say that it will be necessary to continue after noon. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e164	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e178	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each of the independent representatives 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no ordinary change of line, but five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e189	Norway has few commercial activities that are or may be locomotives for small and medium-sized enterprises into an international market. Telenors are and above all can become such an activity, and are one of the few in technology and communication. These are areas that are in high growth, but there are also areas where structural changes are fastest. It is about buying or being bought. It is therefore natural and necessary that the State, as a dominant owner of Telenor, should encourage the company to develop into a driving force in this important area. Adding the opportunity for Telenor to buy and not to be bought can be done in several ways: the state can capitalize the company with its financial strength so that it has muscles to buy. One can, as suggested in St. pp. No 95, sell down – in this case from 51 pst. and downwards towards 34 pst. Thirdly, a choice can be made to give powers to both the downsaling and the capital extension. Such powers should be exercised by the Government even if a purchase or merger occurs when the Storting is collected. Letting go about the Storing in such a situation is what gives the most flexibility. There is a majority that agrees that the Government is authorised to reduce its state ownership in Telenor down to 34 pst. through a combination of the issue and the hall. The majority emphasise that one must ensure that the head office and key strategic functions, such as mobile and satellite services, remain in Norway, and that Telenor must continue to be active in research and development in the future. In the proposition it is called: «In order for Telenor to develop as a competitive operator, the company must be able to make larger purchases or participate in mergers where its shares are used as a means of exchange in the transaction.» I have to admit that I will be amazed if such purchase or merger can only take place by changing the axis. In such a major transaction, it is highly likely that remuneration in cash will also be required. So a few words about what has been most mentioned in the case since the committee gave its opinion. I have meant and believe that based on the desire to develop Telenor into a strong national communications company, the company should have greater freedom of action for strategic adaptations. It would only have been possible if the Government had also been authorised to add additional equity to finance new structural transactions and any acquisitions. It was I who brought this question into the matter, by taking up the question with both the department and Telenor. I did not get any negative feedback from the department. Telenor’s feedback came, as it was natural, during the hearing of the Committee – not as a call, but as an expression that it would be an advantage that there was also an authority given to the Government so that one could participate in any capital extension. I can't see there's any reason to criticize Managing Director Hermansen in this case. I mean, Telenor's behavior towards case spokespersons and committees have our professional. The hearing with the Ministry did not clarify the question of an additional mandate. It only came after the representative Lilletun asked a written question. In the answer, it was expressed that the ministry believed that the issue of the capital extension could return to the Stortinget in the usual way. I hope for Telenor's part that the department is right. It was easy to get multiples to empower the Government in this area as well. I stress that this was a mandate. I know that something happened quickly in the swings in this matter. We're going to have to justify that with the short time we had on such an important matter. It was just the will of all the parties that made it possible to deal with the matter within the time limit we had – all the time this is the last day of this Greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e227	Telenor ASA is one of our most important companies. Within telecoms, ICT, it is the main engine and the main reason Norway is a leading country for mobile phone and satellite communications. ICT is one of the bet areas that Storting has agreed to handle the research message. It is therefore important that Telenor is still a company with a Norwegian head office. This is the bad thing to do in the setting. It is also important that R & D activities, key strategic functions and the head office of mobile and satellite functions remain in Norway. At those premises, the Christian People's Party ends up in a warrant for a hall of 34 p.m. by the axane, but we also want to insist on that 34 pst. should be, to ensure the functions that I'm talking about. So to some other issues in the case that have got a lot of attention. St. Prop. No 95 must be one of the thinnest documents that Stortinget has been presented in such a big and important case. The responsibility of Telenor ASA was transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade to ensure more professional ownership of the company. Let's look at what has happened: first a treatment of the downsalt that creates a lot of attention in the newspapers; many consultants are useful at high prices; there are debts that are not repudiated, compared to the favoring of the big versus the small shareholders. Then we also read in the newspapers the later time that there is a conflict in the government in relation to the appointment of new board of directors and new board of directors. Further, it is unfortunate for the company that such a conflict is taking place, and that one does not arrive at a clarification. So we've come to it that we've now got a proposition with little substance. However, in view of the importance of the matter, the Committee has examined it and has carried out a responsible examination. But I have to say I'm amazed at the department's handling of the case. There's a Telenor call that requires a power beyond what's in the proposition. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, one must take such a call seriously, and I then took an initiative, as the case-speaker says, to get an assessment from the ministry. So it's not like a newspaper refers to the Council of State, that she's asked the committee to make a request for a letter – I've taken that initiative. So it's made clear that there's no such need. Then it's obvious that one doesn't go for it, based on the letter that one got back. But one is even more surprised when a read in the newspaper that the Council of State wants to send the director of Telenor to the adult training course. Both the State Council and I have been concerned about the reform of competences and the training of adults, but I didn't think one would use it in the way recommended by the Council of State here. Doesn't the Council of State see what this does with the trust of such a company that always depends on trust? There is now a need for clarification from the Council of State. First, will the Council of State ensure that any new hall will take place in a professional manner that will not have the same impact page as the previous hall? Secondly, will the Council of State in this Chamber today express its confidence in the Director of Telenor? Sorry, but there is no doubt that there is still an imperfection left. If she is quoted correctly, that he is going to be on an adult training course, it is obvious that this cannot continue. This is what the Council of State must say today: Does the Council of State trust in Director Hermansen, or does it not? Thirdly, the Council of State must clarify the following: When will we receive the appointment of a new board of directors, and will a new board of directors make sure that there is security around the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e246	The matter we are dealing with today has absolutely primal overtones in terms of state ownership, not to say inhibiting state ownership. But it is primarily a matter of Telenor and of who should not sit on a totally dominant stake. The government proposes a sale of the state’s shareholding in Telenor today from approx. 77 pst. to 34 pst. The proposal is briefly justified by the fact that state ownership in the scope of the present case is harmful to the company. The government believes that today's state ownership of Telenor is a hindrance to the company's industrial opportunities, and it actually weakens the value of the state's own shares. The government's conclusion and operational approach are that it is proposed to sell down to 34 pst. I have registered LO's strong and persistent opposition to weakening the state's ownership of Telenor, a resistance which the Committee was most reluctantly informed at the hearing on Monday, June 11, from Stein Reegård. The right fully shares the government’s description of the need for sale. However, Telenor goes a step further than the Government by stating that, in a note dated 11 June to the Committee, Hermansen also describes the reputation of both the Government and the Storing in describing how the market perceived a sale down to 34 pst. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Member States may be seen as a more financial and professional investor, even though the Norwegian State and our political environment do not have a particularly good reputation in the market.» On the right, Telenor’s view of how the market must be assumed to perceive the country as its owner is shared. Yesterday's statement by the Minister of Industry at the Evening Post on the need for adult training for Telenor's group leader is, in my opinion, an example of how to avoid acting as a major shareholder. In a company of the size of Telenor, it will of course be a great advantage to have a group manager who does not have an urgent need for adult training at all times. The representative Lilletun asked questions as to whether the state council has confidence in Hermansen. That, of course, gives the Council of State ample opportunity to elaborate the page. But let me say it this way: it is not arbitrary how to process these things, and what statements come from a shareholder who sits at 77 p.m., even though it is the board that should primarily have confidence in its managing director. I remember that the state's holding has a value of SEK 50 billion, so this investment fund we discussed at the beginning of the week, where otherwise Grete Knudsen also suffered a defeat, becomes too small to count on this. However, what raised a certain point of view was that in the hearing, Telenor had a pious wish for a mandate from the Government of 15 billion kroner. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that they came as they did. But what's strange is that not the Council of State Grete Knudsen has been problematic about that point at all in this proposition we're dealing with now. Because it's clear that with a sale down to 34 pst, where at the same time you have the principle of keeping the 34 pst share, you have to put the checkbook on the desk of Hermansen if at the same time you think that he should have the industrial freedom to do what is necessary to safeguard Telenor's interest, and thereby the shareholders' interest. I think it is most critical that not the Government and Grete Knudsen, as Minister of Industry, have been problematic about this. I experienced what came from Telenor, as if it almost broke for Telenor. What is also alarming is that the case-rapporteur – from the Workers' Party – addresses such an unequivocal and explicit criticism of the Government's handling of this matter. I think it's an emphasis on what the Right said when we dealt with Telenor's privatisation a year ago, about what role the State should have in this. All experience suggests that Telenor is right in its note when describing the state as its owner. It's political vortex, and it's also seen in the setting, where some parties want to hang a lot of Christmas sticks on Telenor that we know will weaken the value of these shares in the market, and that the management of Telenor, represented in the committee by the social democrats Hermansen and Moland, almost gets allergic rash when they hear the description of which tasks individual political parties attach to Telenor. So it's quite obvious that you're putting big values on stakes. Another thing to be aware of is that almost all the expansion to Telenor will now take place outside Norway's borders, and by increasing the access to capital to Telenor, it is clear that there is a greater risk in places other than Norwegian soil. Finally, I would like to make a right-hand suggestion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e276	The representative Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e279	The Party agrees that the State is authorised to reduce its ownership of Telenor. We think it makes sense for the company to decide for itself the progress of this, based on business considerations. By giving authority to sell and issue down to 34 p.m., there will be greater flexibility and opportunities for faster decisions on solutions that are at the best of the company and that will safeguard the values of the state and thus the population. We are in a time marked by changed structures and new alliances within the telecommunications industry. This process must not be hindered or complicated by the fact that Telenor has less opportunity to participate because of political inflexibility in the decision-making phase, or by giving potential partners the impression that it is a strong politicised company. Telenor must not lose because the company is not given any leeway for development. Therefore, the situation now needs to be remedied and the activities given framework conditions in line with what other countries have given their telecommunications companies. Following the completion of listing and the start of partial privatisation, it is the management and management of the company that normally governs its operations in relation to its shareholders and assesses the structure, dividend policy and profitability requirements that should form the basis for long-term business development and value creation. It has to be very clear. In the upswinging development of the telecommunications sector around the world, companies must provide maximum support for development. The challenge is to offer new and better services at lower prices to businesses and persons. Therefore, it is important to allow several owners to enter Telenor. New professional forces and the spread of risks may be reasonable, taking into account the likely large investment by Telenor. What's special about this case is that at the hearing in the nutrition committee, Tormod Hermansen expressed the desire for state participation in a capital increase of up to NOK 15 billion in the company. The company was supposed to be a professional company after the listing. Nevertheless, Hermansen had not notified either the dominant owner, the board of directors or the employees in advance. It is alarming that such a routine group manager chooses not to follow the usual rules of the game. In our open society, it may seem very unlucky in relation to both possible structural transactions and alliances, which are precisely the background to the rapid and rapid progress of this matter in the nutrition committee. It can give signals on the market and harm the company. I understand that Tormod Hermansen will have the greatest possible suction tube in the state treasury. Of course, any group manager will not say no to the maximum amount of equity that must not be remunerated at all times. The party of progress would say a Bastant no to new state participation. It'll be too easy if Hermansen can just pinch his fingers to get his will through. Fortunately, the Business Committee has turned its thumb down for these wishes. It is a signal that in a new era for Telenor, Hermansen and the company must also follow the normal rules of the game, namely to convince shareholders that an extension of shares is reasonable. There is no longer any easy way to the state's money. The majority of the political groups are still in a position to maintain at least 34 psts. participation in ensuring that head offices and research units have national anchorages. Another way to secure this without a significant State holding is to establish a so-called golden share at the hands of the State, which gives veto in respect of changes to the company’s statutes. The Progress Party believes that this is preferable, because a significant State holding does not provide any guarantee of reasonable and sound business governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e298	This case has revealed to those who did not know it before, that it is not the size of state ownership that is problematic, but the way ownership is handled in practice. I would like to bring up the proposal of the Central Party that the Government should investigate and propose a new organisation of ownership, inter alia. to prevent a government council and an important company from coming into a situation like the one we are now experiencing. There must be an additional link between a State Council and the individual limited liability company. I am afraid the dispute between the director and the government council in the media can cost the company trust and the state large amounts. A thorough debate on the purpose of state ownership, how this is managed in individual limited liability companies, and in sum for all to achieve what is best for Norway, how to handle partnership with private individuals, should have started before the privatisation wave. But better late than never. We believe that ownership under other departments should also be assessed, including the «money» Folketry Fund, the Petroleum Fund, the Bank Investment Fund and the SND Invest. The financial strength of the Norwegian State is a fact that must be exploitable as a competitive advantage for business. This is why the Centre Party wants an investigation into a large private equity fund that can enter into cases such as Dyno, Hydro Seafood, Storebrand and now Telenor. I am pleased that it is now revealed the willingness to take the risk of maintaining and strengthening Norwegian headquarters and development environments. However, it must be allowed to be critical of the urgency of the last Monday and Tuesday. We should get ourselves a financial instrument that can help more than Tormod Hermansen. When so many are now asking critical questions, the Government should be given the mission proposed by the Central Party. I would like to stress that I think Telenor is a good example of state ownership not being an obstacle to asserting itself well in international competition. Last year the company was 100 pst. State-owned until December 4, 50 billion were invested. I am not able to see that the current situation for the company is so difficult that urgent treatment is required. It has been decided that the State holding may be reduced from today's 77 pst. to 51 pst. The share capital may be extended by 10 pst. without any new decision. Not many companies have such freedom of action. The lot may not enter in order to reduce the State’s holding to 34 pst. – and that’s because the reason is so dangerously negative, and because the investigation is so superficial and deficient. The size should take the debate on improving state ownership, and then do what is needed to improve it. If we don't do that, we'll be met with the same arguments about bad ownership in Statoil, in the financial sector and in the power sector, and eventually in terms of roads, hospitals, railways and mail. We'll soon be housekeepers in our own country. The centre party wishes to assess such a case on a broader and better basis than the thinner investigation that has been called a proposition. Telenor owns and operates most of Norwegian telecommunications. What does the change mean for the societal tasks of Telenor? How are the possibilities of maintaining the head office, etc. affected?? What do employees mean? Wouldn't an increased investment in New Telenor be more profitable than spreading billions thinly beyond the globe? None of these conditions have been mentioned. What is mentioned about the company and the industry is all that was well known when the previous decision on the ownership of the country was made. The centre party wants the state ownership to be long-term and predictable, not least in the interests of private joint owners. That's not when 51 pst. State interest was determined one year back, but is now referred to as problematic for the State and the company. The central party wants the state ownership to be active and the purpose to be clear to the companies that are owned and to those with whom we own. I don't think it scares other owners that the state is a demanding owner, not only in terms of financial dividends, but also in terms of the location of head office and R & D activities. The central party wants state ownership to be positive for the companies owned. We who believe that, cannot at the same time refer to the state as the owner in a negative way. We must be able to bear that a large state holding is unfamiliar to some of the actors on the Nasdaq stock exchange. It's possible to explain that this is the case. I believe our large state-owned companies are still seductive investment objects. It must also have been considered by the majority of the Stortinges when decisions on stock exchange listing and privatisation were taken. Or is it perhaps that the decisions on modest private shares were made just to satisfy the critics of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e321	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e324	Rarely, I think, has the Stortinget been presented with a case with such a great economic impact that is so poorly prepared, and not least, which is so poorly justified. So you come here, at the very end of a four-year period, with a little booklet that you put on the table of the Stortinge and ask you to finish this before the summer break – a matter where the consequences are many, many billions, and which is justified by the following, namely the company's industrial opportunities. If you think about what Telenor has been like in recent years under state ownership, there's nothing to suggest that Telenor could not have been a significant player. Telenors are already on most of the continents of our world under state ownership. After deciding to release private capital in the autumn, Telenor has continued to be active. And if you think through this rationale that is given, that state ownership of such a company is itself an obstacle to industrial development, what would be the next argument in terms of Statoil, Hydro or other companies in which the state has significant ownership? In these companies, says the Workers' Party – at least so far – it is important to have a dominant state ownership position, because these companies represent something more than just being industrial companies. That means that these arguments that the Workers' Party is currently leading in the field to sell down Telenor, next time of course, will strike back as a boomerang against all the other companies in which the Workers' Party so far believes it is important to have state ownership. This was just one reason, to show how badly prepared this case is, and how little time you must have spent in the ministry to think through it. So the following: would a private shareholder have behaved this way? Telenors or telecom shares are now at their lowest in many years. In the evening post yesterday, an article said that a feared total collapse in the telecoms sector. In a situation where telecom shares over the past few years are historically low – that also showed the sale of Telenor in the autumn, as we only got a fraction of what was initially expected when negotiations were being conducted with Telia the year before – a private company would have said that we should give this company away at a spot price, which is, in fact, what the Storting is now doing. You give a power to sell a valuable company of competence in a situation where the shares are priced lower than in many, many years! Would a private shareholder have behaved like that? Of course not. And what surprises me, no matter what one might think of private ownership in Telenor, is that no one is about to start caring for the state's – people's – money. Is it right to give away the people's money at a mock price, regardless of whether you think there should be private ownership in Telenor or not? Because that's what you're doing here, based on a reason that's so syllable that I'm going to think that most of the Workers' Party are shrinking when they got this little lefsa tossed on the table and were asked to finish the case before the summer. I feel relatively convinced about the following: a private shareholder, or a private owner, in Telenor or in any other company, would never have behaved like that. I also feel convinced of the following: if Telenor needs greater power of action, a professional, long-term owner would have said that this state is rich, we can re-prioritize some of the state's funds to possibly enter Telenor. SV has then put forward a proposal as an alternative to the current position: if Telenor has to have more capital than what it currently has to be industrially active, an issue can be made against the shareholders, both those in the state and the other shareholders, in order to give the company this power of action – if necessary. And it's well possible that it's necessary. I have also registered that the company's managing director has suggested that this is necessary, because it is therefore that this company is in many ways quite valuable to the Norwegian community. The reason given now is to have a holding of 34 p.m., because it will have ring-fenced effects in the Norwegian community. But 34 pst. ownership today, what is it tomorrow, when those who manage ownership have such a small long-term perspective? And with the prospect of the big business we might get for the autumn, it could of course mean that we might have no Norwegian telecommunications company in the next four years. So that means that Telenor can be a completely different place, and that what we have left in Norway is a branch of a large international label. This development is due to the workers' party government through this period, and after the first façade last fall – it was after all considerations, commercial or political, a façade – one goes in with open eyes and does the same façade one more time, with the prospect of a very bourgeois enlargement that has long wanted to get rid of the whole of Telenor. Unfortunately, Norway and the competence and industry in Norway have returned to their grip. I also deal with the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e344	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e347	In this case, the Government asks for authority to reduce the state’s ownership interest in Telenor down to 34 p.m. This is what many people call a fresco that was almost unimaginable a year ago. The case also shows how quickly the industry changes, and the need for freedom of action and position changes. The fact that the case is subject to such a short processing period may be an example of how fast things are happening in the industry. Nevertheless, the comments of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have their justification in view of the possibility of thorough treatment in relation to the great national importance of the matter. The left is part of the majority of the committee which considers it important that the company participates in alliances with other companies in order to maintain its long-term competitiveness. If the new freedom of action is used sensibly in the ongoing structural changes, it will help to increase the company's share value. From the left, it is important that Telenor be given the opportunity to remain a strong and competitive company with a strong national anchor. This ensures one by having a size of the owner's side which may prevent any changes to the statutes. The head office must be in Norway. It is also important that strategic functions and headquarters for mobile and satellite functions remain in Norway. Furthermore, it is important to invest in R & D and ICT, with the locomotive that Telenor is in ICT. When the recommendation of the Liaison Committee is adopted today, the company has a space for action and an economic potential which means that the management of the company does not need to be in the loop when negotiations and structural changes are taking place in the industry. In the view of the Left, today's decision will clearly strengthen the company in competition on the international market and allow for further growth and employment. As for the 15 billion and, I would almost say, the game and the entertainment around them in relation to different people, that is not part of the formal evidence. However, this cannot be overlooked without comment. There may seem to be a need for a stronger control signal and a clear clarification of the rules of the game that apply between the largest owner and the front player of the team. In such a big and important case, it is unfortunate that there are conflicting signals about the needs of the largest owner and the managing director of the company. This can affect the trust in the company and its reputation. The strategies and measures of a company such as Telenor, including capital requirements, must be clarified internally with the owner and not based on spontaneity and polemics. This is a dramatic situation. The expressed will of the Storing is to strengthen Telenor. Governments and management of the company may have weakened the company. I think this is a difficult situation and a dramatic situation. We're talking about billions of values belonging to the Norwegian people. The Council of State must now, when she is given the floor in a moment, clarify these matters and make clear, through clear signals, the rules of the game and the governance signals, and by re-establishing the necessary trust in the company and its management.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e364	What this matter is about is the form of treatment at the hand of the State if a concrete proposal from Telenor on a transaction so large that the question arises as to whether the State will reduce its ownership of Telenor to less than 51 pst. It is important to stress here that when the Storting empowers the Government to decide on any specific transaction that Telenor might promote, there is no change in the state's attitude to such a concrete proposal from the company. The government will not make a weaker claim to agree to such a transaction in a situation in which it has the power to take a decision on its own whether or not it should have referred the matter to the Stortinget. It is the pace of decision-making that is the most significant difference. The proposition is not based on a specific proposal from the company. It concerns, as I said, how the State will deal with any proposals that may come from the company and that could not be dealt with within the existing mandate to reduce its ownership to 51 pst. However, the Ministry has, through its regular, ongoing contact with the company, been familiar with and made aware of discussions and the implementation of cooperation actions between many of the key actors in the telecoms sector. Some of these may also require Telenor and Telenor’s owners, or shareholders, to decide on a short notice. An example that was up for a period was the conversation with a heavy owner in TeleDanmark. The Ministry has regular dialogue with several of the international banks following Telenor and telecommunications closely. Through this contact, we keep up-to-date on how Telenor’s position and development after the stock market introduction is assessed in the international capital markets. We have also started to assess how a reduction in the state’s ownership interest should occur. I am here pointing out that the Government has the power to reduce the state’s ownership through a combination of active sales and issues, and that the firming period after the stock market introduction expired on 4 June, so that we can now – if it turns out that it was time and the right time for the company – sell it down. As far as advisers are concerned, I can also inform you that the Ministry has conducted an international bidding round in order to link some banks that can be engaged as ministerial advisers at short notice if there are proposals from Telenor to carry out a major transaction. So finally, the question from the representative Lilletun. The size has joined a very specific procedure with regard to the selection of the Board of Directors and the electoral committee arrangements in Telenor. The electoral committee is in progress, and it is actually the works council that will appoint a chairman next time. The Election Committee did not come to the Government with a final proposal. But the Storting has joined very specific procedures for how this is going to happen. It's taken care of. The second question was whether the main shareholder has confidence in the group manager. Yes, to the very highest degree. What is most important is that the board also has confidence in the group manager, because it is also the board of directors to which the shareholders relate. But at the same time, I had to say, on questions of whether normal communication lines and driving rules had been maintained, that there has probably been some communication loop that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e386	I take note of the answer given by the Council of State in relation to the appointment of a new director, but I note that the way it is handled has brought with it the speculations that I call. But I'm waiting, and I expect this to be a clean process that comes to a quick clarification. When it comes to the issue of trust in the group manager, I am pleased that it has been clarified. At the same time, I would like to ask the Council of State: is there a professional way to exercise ownership in creating that kind of distrust, by simply saying that a director should be sent to adult education? Isn't it a professional way to do it by taking it up with its board? When one says that a director should be sent to adult education, it is so dramatic that it is actually a short process. When a majority shareholder says that, I would say that it is highly critical, and I would like to ask again: does the Council of State really think that it is a professional way of exercising its ownership? So I'm glad that a now has acquired additional competence when it comes to consulting in relation to the possible issues and sales that will happen. Will the Council of State then promise that we will omit that type of notice on the distribution, on the lack of information, etc. which we had in the first round? Do you have a taken self-criticism, and do you want a now-seven to make things tidy around it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e395	First, the procedures for the full introduction of the stock exchange, as presented by the Government in the context of the revised national budget. We have assessed it by the Government so that the stock market introduction took place in a tidy manner. Of course, there are always things that can be done better, and that we must at least go inside and look at in a possible further work on a sale. As far as the board is concerned, I am pleased that the representative Lilletun is also in agreement with the way this happens. But otherwise it is natural in such a giant company that there are many who are both engaged and have different agendas in such processes. It's probably well known in similar companies. So back to this with confidence, which we definitely have, as a big shareholder. But Telenor has several shareholders, and in the context of any capital expansion, there will be more that may be involved. When the board didn't have any plans for such an extension, and I was asked about driving rules in this case – in a completely open society and with open processes where everyone knew what had happened also in connection with the committee's work – I just didn't want to say that here, as the main shareholder, I thought there were some beauty flaws that should be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e404	When I heard Grete Knudsen's answer now, it struck me that the council is very selective as to when she chooses to be very formal, and when she chooses the second edition. When you talk about the election committee and what's going to happen there, it becomes very formal, and when you come to the characteristics of the CEO, you have to have a popular version of Grete Knudsen. I think maybe you should put on one line all the time – it's a little more predictable. To the adult education: Lilletun spoke as if it was kind of going to send Hermansen off to adult education. I doubt that was the idea of the Council of State – I perceived it as she had intended to conduct adult education herself. But what is strange in this matter is all that is not really coming out. You can only imagine some undercurrents in what you heard in the Opseth post. It's clear that in the triangle Opseth-Knudsen-Hermansen you can only imagine what energy is triggered in its origin. There are considerable forces! And it's clear that when this becomes a twist of conflicting interests, you can only imagine what sound isolation is needed in order for it not to escape and reach the editorials in Akersgata. This is an example of how government ownership should not be managed. And it shows me that there is really no alternative to interaction on the one hand and professionalism on the other. Because I record that there are no other shareholders in Telenor who have needed to characterize Hermansen. The other thing I'm really asking is whether it's really just a tactic from Grete Knudsen that she first promotes a proposition that goes down. She knows what parties she wants to get into it – we told her about last year – and she knows who she can contribute to putting money into state ownership. Is it actually so that Grete Knudsen also sees the 34 pst.-border as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e415	The government does not see the 34 p.m. scheme as a problem, and we have also been clear that we are adhering to the position of the majority of the committee on both a head office and on development and research. So to the question of whether there has been any tactic here, you on the one hand went to 34 pst. and, on the other hand, it should have been possible that something had been done in contact with the Committee. That's exactly what I've emphasized when I say that Telenor has more than one shareholder. And as far as we as the main shareholder were and are familiar with, there are no plans for issue. If a capital increase were to be made, it is clear that one must have been in relation to the total shareholder group. And when we have naturally had contact with the management of the board, this has not been a topic of capital expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e422	It was with great surprise and amazement that the members of the committee met the group leader Tormod Hermansen to consult, where he stated that new state subsidies could be desirable for up to 15 billion krones – and this without the board of directors, the most dominant owner or the employees of the company having heard a few things about it. It seems that the group manager lives in the age of the old state companies and has forgotten that the company is now listed and in a partial privatisation process. And this isn't any company, it's the largest and most dominant telecom company in Norway, where taxpayers and the Norwegian people have invested considerable billions. So where has Hermansen been? I am most concerned about the international ring effects and signals this can give. We are in a structural process, new strategic alliances, etc. have to be established. Here we're talking about eating or being eaten. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State the following questions: What may this company have lost its reputation due to the inexplicable treatment and handling of which the group manager is responsible? Will it reduce the Norwegian people's values in the company with regard to the liquidity of the share?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e429	It was precisely in the light of the main shareholder's contact with international environments that the company's board of directors considered it appropriate to present the proposition we are discussing here today in Stortinget, to have a liberalism if it would prove to be a situation in which alliances and mergers could be involved. And we have the absolute impression that Telenor is doing well internationally, which is also assessed by how the company works. The company has good management, and it also has good governance. And that's the background you're being evaluated. In terms of this beauty mistake, we have to fix it again. And I still think it's right -- in an open society -- that we're also preparing for this. I have also not rejected what the committee raised in the letter that went to the committee, but I have had a non-respect to such a capital expansion, because it was actually impossible within a framework of four hours to make all such assessments, since the board has not had this as a current issue either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e442	I think it's going to be far more than correcting some beauty mistakes, as the Council of State now claims, because if there's one thing I agree with the representative Gabrielsen in, it's that this is a crown example of how ownership should not be exercised – not just state ownership, but ownership in general. A private owner could never have found himself dealing with his ownership in such a way as the Council of State has done here. In fact, the Council of State has created the impression that state ownership prevents the company from developing further. At the same time, she says here today that it is not certain that the government will use the authority to sell itself down. Despite the fact that state ownership is an obstacle to further development, the Government and the majority of the population still intend to maintain a strong state ownership. The State shall be the dominant and, in fact, also a blocking owner, while preventing further development, and using that type of argument openly in the media. Secondly, the Council of State says that Telenor has a leader who needs adult training, and she also says here today that it is the board who has to decide whether you have confidence in this leader. Then I have to say that in sum this creates an impression of the handling that is mildly said not good. I agree with those who have spoken in the past, who say that this will simply mean throwing billions on the boat when the sales in Telenor are to be carried out. My simple question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State not see that there are also some others who need adult training in terms of how ownership should be handled and that it might be beneficial to organise ownership in state enterprises as proposed by the Centre Party, namely to release it in a separate investment company that is to act purely professionally and where state interests are to be safeguarded in such a way that we get the most out of state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e451	First of all, I would like to say that if the Stortingen now joins the Government's proposal for a mandate, it must mean that the majority in this house believes that situations may arise where it would be right for the government to no longer accept a majority in the company. This gives authority to the Government to assess it, and to have a simpler form of treatment if that situation should arise. So the board of directors has confidence in the group manager, and it also has the largest shareholder. But you turn the case upside down if you don't think there must be certain procedures and driving rules that are clear, and as an shareholder you must be able to say what you think about. So to the Central Party proposal on holding company. I have a great sense of the proposal that the Central Party has made, but I think it also needs to be examined in greater detail. The government is working between different departments, and I myself have suggested that the holding company model itself can be a way of further professionalising the country's ownership. But that also means that the Storting must give to the government apparatus a number of powers that are now enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, I believe this is a work that needs some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e460	The fundamental issue at stake here is how the state manages its financial assets. There are actually two possibilities, either as equity or as foreign capital. It is in no way new that the Right considers that this should be used primarily as foreign capital in different companies. That is also what the Government proposes to go out on the equity side, and that means that it is likely to include foreign capital in other businesses. But regardless of this fundamental question, there are some pragmatic questions that come to mind in the situation we're in right now. Does the Council of State think it's a good time to sell out of Telenor? Is it a good way to manage the community's wealth, to go in for a sale at as low a share price as it is now? Will this not mean that the state, the community, loses large sums, transferring state values to any future private new – I think it will be some new – shareholders in this company? I think the Council of State must respond reasonably well. So to our proposal to facilitate an issue in Telenor. Telenor is out among wolves, and if you're out among wolves, you have to do it with the wolves you're with. The equity situation of Telenor, at least as produced by the Director, is such that it should be improved in order to increase their freedom of action. Does the Council of State feel that it would be reasonable to agree to a corrected issue, and that the State should be willing to provide equity, so that they can have a slightly greater freedom of action in order to operate among the wolves they are outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e469	The fact that the Storting is most likely to give the Government the power to move forward towards a threshold of 34 p.m. does not mean that the State will sell immediately and will sell to – I kept saying – the lowest bidder. That means that situations can arise where it might be relevant to enter alliances. Take the example of Telia/Telenor. That situation arose that there could be a merger between Telia and Telenor. Then the state share had also come under 51 pst. The work currently being done and the activity in progress internationally may arise in situations where there are opportunities for alliances, to which the main shareholder must also take a stand. Today, the Storting will give away the authority you had otherwise, to the Government, which can make the sale quickly, if you think it is right. So to the second question, about the SV's proposal to recapitalise the company, where the board has not proposed it. The board of a listed company has not proposed this, but SV believes that it is the best thing for the company. The Ministry has not, at this stage, assessed the question of empowering the Government to participate in such a capital extension, because the matter has not been assessed by the Telenor Board of Directors either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e480	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e485	Let me first make it clear that the Christian People's Party agrees with the main thrust of today's attitude, namely that state ownership in Telenor can be reduced down to 34 p.m., for reasons that have emerged both from the vote and in the debate. However, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining Telenor as a company where the state has significant influence, with head office and key strategic functions also in mobile and satellite functions, in Norway. But I believe that as the international telecommunications market has become, it is necessary for the state to go down into Telenor's holdings in order for Telenor to have the right to act in a reasonable manner. So to the question that has been particularly up to the end of the debate, namely, the issue raised during the committee's consideration of a possible capital increase of NOK 15 billion. Such questions need to be dealt with in a completely different professional way than was the case. Much can be said about the management of this by the group director. But when the Council of State itself followed up in the Evening Post interview and stated that the group director here needs adult training, she has not exactly contributed to strengthening the trust of the group leader, who is dependent on trust when he is going to operate in a tough international telecommunications market. This has not only been unprofessionally managed by a group director. It has been unprofessionally handled by the Council of State. There's also another side to this that gives cause for wonder. Governments have been talking about curfews in communication and lack of coordination. We have seen it in the relationship between the Council of State, as a representative of the majority owners, and the Telenor leadership, but it has certainly also revealed itself to be crinkling or a lack of coordination within the government party in the handling of this major matter. Once we've heard the Government's opinion, and we've heard the Labour Party's faction leader, Kjell Opseth, say, we see how a big question is dealt with so differently within the government party that there's reason for amazement. In matters of this nature, a party of governments must act in a completely different and tidy manner. Hopefully we will get out of this case without too much damage being done, but unfortunately this is not due to the government party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e500	We have come into a strange situation in this case. The Council of State has expressed confidence in Telenor’s group leader, but has not seen the need to go back to its opinions on the need for adult training. She explained that there was some sort of beauty mistake about this. It's kind of a beauty course, sir. Hermansen then needs, as I understand it. This should be cleaned up by the Council of State. The matter, as it stands now, has at my discretion the following elements: The government has asked – that is the main element of the matter – to get the business freedom to secure values in Telenor. That's good. It strengthens the company. It gets the government today, and I'm sure it's going to use it in a commercially correct way for the shareholders, including the state. However, during the proceedings in Stortinget, Telenor’s group leader has weakened himself and the company significantly through his behaviour towards Stortinget. It's serious. It is not in itself a matter for the Storting perhaps, perhaps not for the Council of State, but I expect that there is a matter between the board of directors of the group and the group manager. Then the Council of State has helped to weaken Telenor's management and authority through its opinions on the need for adult education. It is a significant problem for the Stortinget and the Council of State. Then the state council has put the board of directors in a hopeless situation. Because it is the responsibility of the board, not the individual owner, to express trust or the opposite of the management of the group. When, then, the largest owner has chosen to enter the role of the board, the board has, of course, come into a hopeless situation. Are they now going to elaborate further on the views of the largest owner on the group leader, or is the board required to draw any conclusions about its own role? It is in a situation where we read in the newspapers that the government is struggling to find a new chairman of the company. Who is competent to be the chairman of the board of that company, now stands up to be so, when one has an owner who acts in this way? That might be the biggest question after this debate. In my opinion, the Council of State has the choice of doing two things: either to stand this race out, and thus to ensure in some way – without reference to formalism, for this is about realities – that the group management must draw some conclusions from the views of the largest owner on the group management, or admit that these opinions on the group leader and the need for adult training should never have been said, and that it was unfortunate. It still has the opportunity to do so from the pulpit of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e515	Let me say to the representatives of Djupedal, Reikvam and Enoxen, all three of whom were concerned that this is primarily about halls of sale: No, it is not, it is primarily about having a free hand to let Telenor enter into mergers if there are questions about it during the months when the Stortinget is not gathering. As you can see, both Telenor's side and the department's side are commendable for asking for that freedom of action. So there are some of us who think that it should be given even greater freedom of action, simply also a power to participate in a possible capital extension, but this is so many, including the representative Bondevik, made as if it were almost a 15-billion-dollar promise. So it was a power to participate in an issue of up to $15 billion. There is a difference between the two reasoning. But then I would like to say that it is rare that I have heard a debate in Stortinget that so clearly tells us that now we have to do something about state ownership. There can be no doubt that one should outsource the State ownership to one or more holding company operating within a defined framework, determined by the Stortinget, in line with the Bank Investment Fund or similar institutions. You can say a lot about the handling of these things here in Stortinget. Yes, the special thing about it is that it has been implemented in a relatively short time, very short time, in view of the great value of the case, but precisely because it was important for Telenor to have greater freedom of action if necessary, it was important to get matters handled. Nothing has happened very abnormally, as the representative Mr Bondevik wanted it to. I have been in this house for almost 20 years, and there has been no unusual handling in the committee. But I can clearly see in retrospect that you might have taken the time to ask some questions in writing. At least we would have avoided some debate on this. There is no doubt that Telenor received a question from me as to whether there was a need for a capital extension as well, and they answered it in the committee. They were honored for doing so, but there was no call for that authority. They just said it could be nice to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e528	You can say a lot about Opseth, and I guess it's one of the representatives that's going out today, which has been a lot of thought about. I think that today he has at least laid the foundation of a degree of honesty that I almost didn't think I should have heard from the pulpit. And then I think about who asked about what – and it's not in writing. What is at the heart of this matter, however, is the course of action of the Council of State, and the way in which she has actually weakened Telenor. She's made it difficult for Telenor. In my view, she has made it difficult for the board, and of course she has made it difficult for the group leader. In fact, she has also contributed to making searching for new directors difficult. So here's the problem the Council of State itself – I want to say the Council of State statement in the Evening Post yesterday. And then that means the following: it's just the council that can solve the knot. For example, if it is the case that the Grete Knudsen, the Council of State, under the principle of transparency, reserves the right to communicate to the Norwegian people at all times what she had to think about the needs of individual group leaders for adult education, it means. that the person in charge of Telenor, who is also Director of Hydro, may receive such a characteristic in 14 days. What do I know? I cannot understand with my best will that it will cost the Minister of Industry anything to go up on this speaker and say that in terms of howling in communication – she herself has said that it has been, and I take note of that – there has also been a certain degree of curlyness in her own formulation. That means that if the Council of State could go up on this pulpit and sort of erase what was said on a cell phone from southern latitudes, it could actually mean that the values of the Norwegian people in Telenor would actually get an uphill ride. She wanted to make it easier for the company, and she would actually make a contribution to securing Telenor's future. I would like the Minister of Industry to state in a post why it is so difficult for the Minister of Industry to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e537	For the Christian People's Party, it has our concern for Telenor, the concern of an important enterprise within a bet area, which has the basis for our actions in this matter. I have experienced earlier that I think it has been the unfair treatment of Telenor, from the takeover in the Ministry of Food and Trade to today, which has weakened Telenor. I have further stated that it should clean up the state council. I'll come back to that. I would also like to have a few words about case spokesmen. The case spokespersons have acted quite neatly, and I can confirm what he has said in the part in which I have been in, in this case. I do not say this to set up case spokesmen in relation to the Council of State, but the truth should be right, and the truth should be presented here. But then to reality – that's two things. I am very disappointed that the Council of State has not been willing to do anything in itself on the speech seat concerning the essay in the Evening Post. I entirely share with the representative Gabrielsen his demand that she come up and do it. The second is: In the evening post, she is quoted as asking the committee to send a letter. So that's not the case. I took the initiative for that letter. She may be misquoted, and she may be allowed to confirm it. Does the Council of State mean that state ownership should be exercised in such a way that one should express himself publicly whenever a situation arises in which a director may have done something that the council of state in which majority ownership is not agreed? Does the government not see that it has gone too far in this area? And isn't it possible to get a cause for that? So for the Christian People's Party, it's still important to go in for state ownership at 34 p.m., both here and in some other companies. But the way the Council of State handles this, you give the representative Gabrielsen the right idea that it looks like it's hard to get it done. I share Opseth's intentions and visions of how state ownership should be exercised and Norwegian capital inserted into Norwegian business. But the Council of State is undermining the whole possibility of implementing that policy based on what is the vision of the Christian People's Party here. I expect the Council of State to come up and deal with itself both in relation to the quote that she has asked for a letter, and in relation to the vaccination training.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e558	I record that both the Council of State and Kjell Opseth are positive about our proposals. Then it is all the more incomprehensible that the Workers' Party cannot vote in favour of a proposal that does not involve the kick-off organisation of ownership in a separate company, but that in fact only asks the Government to investigate another organisation of state ownership – in line with what both the representative Opseth and the Council of State have said. Kjell Opseth also says that this is not about a sale, but about the possibility to participate in mergers that had to arise during the summer, when the Stortinget is not assembled. It's too simple. The Minister of Industry has left the impression that state ownership is bad for the development of the company. It's possible she's meant to say something else. It is possible that the Minister of Industry has not intended anything other than to say that, if the company is to participate in mergers, we must of course have the opportunity to reduce the State's ownership in order for it to become a merger with another company. In fact, it also opened up the centre parties in connection with the merger with Telia – correctly through a lengthy process and after a completely different model from the one the Government has now chosen. But the statements of the Council of State have helped to create the impression that state ownership is unfortunate for the development of a company. Of course, it will also have consequences for Statoil, where one is now in the market and is to sell shares in a company where the country is still to have 2/3 ownership. Of course, it will also have consequences for Telenor and for the further development of Telenor, where the State will continue to sit as the largest owner and have a blocking position. So it's too easy to say that it's about a sale. Secondly, the representative, Mr Opseth, says that there is nothing unusual in dealing with this matter on the part of the Committee. I must honestly say that I hope there is something unusual about the handling of this matter! If it is so simple that the head of a large state enterprise should be able to come to the hearing of a committee and of questions from committee members, as indicated in the media headlines, and the rumors that are happening, almost above the table signal that it could have been fun to have 15 billion DKK of increased equity, on which the parties are set to give authority to the government to go in with 15 billion DKK of equity, without any prior proceedings, without having asked the government, yes, if there is no unusual way to deal with the matter in the nutrition committee, then I don't understand anything. And given that the same parties have been very reluctant to spend 50 million dollars. To maintain 160 primary schools in another case we are going to deal with today, everything is put in a quite remarkable light.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e568	SV's view of this matter should eventually be well known. We don't share the vote that the majority will now vote for. That doesn't mean that we don't think much of what's happened here is critical. I was one of those who took the initiative for the major reform of continuing education in the previous growing-up period, and most of us do sometimes need both adult and post-graduate education. It's basically a smart delivery gel that you've never learned enough here in the world, that you can still learn more, and not least still can see that things you've both said and done, necessarily wasn't always awfully wise. It is also part of the major reform of continuing training. When I register that the Council of State has said what she has said, I must say that if I had been the CEO of a company that so had been charged publicly, I would have taken it as a pretty strong correction. I would have strongly considered what this really means. In my opinion, the call that has come from representatives of a number of parties is very correct: this is unwise and must be corrected from the pulpit of the Stortinge! What is obvious is the following, regardless of what SV may think about the listing of Telenor: Telenor is no longer a government management company, but a listed company and thus subject to completely different – we say – commercial and legal rules than the old management companies were. And that means it's the company's board that's responsible to the department, and not the company's adm. director. Grete Knudsen obviously lives in the error that it is still the old working party culture that should be able to control these companies. That means that my very sincere appeal, like many others here, is that it would be wise for Mrs Knudsen to correct the impression created by these interviews in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e579	To take the last one first: like Gabrielsen and Lilletun have been in, I have said what I have said, that I see that the driving rules should have been complied with in a better way. So I can really take inwards, that I should have said that in the quiet rooms and not in the open rooms. At the same time, it is clear that the normal driving rules must not least be complied with in a listed company and that it is the governing bodies which show that their various shareholders have to make arrangements which, in the event of a collapse, may give authority to. And so in this case, the government in the short term, with a 24 hour deadline, had no chance of saying either. And that, of course, gives the letter a clear message. As regards the notice in the evening post, that I have asked for a letter, which the representative Lilletun also asked me to answer, I am mistaken. There's a lot I'm wrong about. What I'm not mistaken about is what I'm saying is that I should have taken up in the quiet rooms this with adult education, but the other things about that particular letter, I'm wrong about the evening post. I am pleased that there is now a broad consensus on the authority given to the Government. But that doesn't mean that, as Enoxen is also involved, some necessary sales. That means that there may be an opportunity to enter into alliances and mergers. In the end, what Enoch goes on to say about state ownership. Now I'm not sure, because I think it should be investigated that the answer is, for example. one single holding company. There may be more arrangements, because there'll be a lot if this is going to be all together. I have previously mentioned the Bank Investment Fund as the very template, that it could be a possible model to go further. But once again, there is a lot that is related to the Constitution in terms of the state's interests, so this is also a debate that must take place in the Storting by giving up any powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e592	It's at least one thing that's good with this debate, and it's a full deal that everyone wants a strong and powerful telecommunications company in our country through Telenor. Otherwise, I asked first and foremost for the word to say that after 20 years, the last time I am in this pulpit is, and would like to thank you for many hard debates, including today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e599	When the representative Opseth finished that way, I would like to sign back and thank the representative Opseth, and I am fully sincere about this, for a great deal of work that has put him in respect, but also too many ‘fighters’ and harsh settlements. This debate has had such an element, but it does not destroy the recognition we give to Opseth as both a magnificence representative and as a Council of State in various departments. Nevertheless, I must be allowed to sign back to him – and I know that he likes – for something he said in his previous post, namely that he did not believe that the representative Bondevik was fully aware of the difference between a grant and a power of capital expansion. Well, I've been in politics for so long that I know that difference. Although this has been a power of capital expansion of up to NOK 15 billion, that doesn't mean it's a small question. It's a difficult thing to give such authority. It was probably not as infidel as it could be heard from Opseth, that there was only one question that had been raised almost in all the duty of faith in the committee. It was because it was relevant that such a proposal for an authorisation could be promoted. I want to maintain that – and both Opseth and I have a long seagoing service in this house – would be a very unusual procedure. It appears from the Council's reply to the Committee, which reads: ‘The Ministry has assumed that one would have to go to Stortinget if such a case were to occur...’. It goes on to say: ‘The Ministry has not otherwise had the opportunity to consider the various issues, in relation to the company and the market, which arise by having, where appropriate, a standing mandate of the nature of the issue.’ It's very interesting -- there's a lot on and between the lines of that answer. The worst thing about this matter is however the way the Council of State has acted. Now she said that she is taking inwards that what she said in relation to the group director and adult education, she should have said in the quiet rooms, and not in the open rooms. It was a pretty clear admission of something that should not have happened. That was a good confession, and then I think we should take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e618	Ansgar Gabrielsen – the representative has spoken twice before and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e621	It has to be very short. That the Council of State said upon request, that these statements should have been made in the quiet rooms, was a necessary answer, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e628	I also take note of the answer given, which was absolutely necessary to get. But I want to add, in relation to the appropriate response from the Council of State to our proposal, that I think it might also be sensible to organise ownership in several companies. There could be one possible model. Of course, we are not locked in the way in which this should be organised. I actually think we're so close to each other now that it should be possible to have a majority in order for this issue to be addressed. For the proposal of the Centre Party: «The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a reorganization of the state ownership of companies that are organised as limited liability companies and are engaged in business activities.» So it's open. The government itself may choose to determine and organise the ownership of several holding companies, in one attitude society or in accordance with other models that the Government may find useful. So it is a proposal that is entirely in line with what the Council of State is now expressing should be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e638	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e643	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will now propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3-10 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e718	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 60 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right and Advance Party 20 minutes each, Center Party and Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and from the parliamentary leaders, as well as from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e729	The year’s treatment of the revised national budget and the changes in the state budget have been seen as not being dramatic. It may be an advantage in a situation where the economy is not exactly screaming for new promises and any cracks in budgetary terms. The budget and the audit are based on the budgetary agreement that we had with the centre parties for this year's budget, where we believe we have had an impact on further strengthening of well-being, on the follow-up to the adopted reforms that we are in the process of in the field of health, psychiatry, cancer, the system of determination, within the framework of the older reform with a focus on better older reform, which we are in the last year of, and on a historical commitment to the community sector, which is, of course, too much of welfare production. The revised national budget has previously been referred to as the Implementation Communication, and it is fully in line with the intention and the recommendation of the recent Committee on Budgetary Reform that the revised national budget of the year is largely technical changes based on changes in estimates over the year. Last year we started the revision with some uncovered bills that had to be financed, and for that reason it became a lot of big cuts. So this year we've had a different and more transparent starting point. We have come to terms with a shifting majority, what is often referred to as slumping. Of course, on the part of the government party, we would have liked to have an overall agreement that would give a little more predictability in relation to the areas to be given priority, but there is therefore a slightly varying majority behind the proposals that are now in place. There is, however, broad agreement on some points. There's a further 100 million bet. kr for conversion and research funding at universities. It's set at 17.5 million. to strengthen the possibility that newly trained police officers can get to work as soon as possible. Not least, we are pleased with the 25 million increase in the number of training institutions to which there is a broad welcome. kr, and it is also good that we have been able to find an economic opportunity to ensure that those who might have received an investment fee for only nine months will be free of the conversion on which they would be dependent for a short period of time. In addition to the purely operational expenditure items, a further DKK 2.5 billion has been allocated to research funds and the GIEK guarantee framework. I have to add that it is not the loan framework, as it says in the setting, it will be corrected, but the guarantee framework will be extended. We have achieved this within a responsible fiscal framework that gives the impression of good economic order, and that is necessary. We have a lot of money in Norway: NOK 632 billion on the oil fund is the estimate it is operated on in the revised national budget. This means that every Norwegian has NOK 130 000 – NOK 140 000 standing in the account, as a security both in relation to future pensions and security in relation to maintaining the welfare level in the future. It gives us a very good economic base if we manage this money in such a way that we don't get price and cost growth, which would eat up a lot of the effect of the freedom of action that we have. That is why it is good that we have agreed during the spring on the economic framework and on economic policy guidelines, which means that we are talking about the same economic sizes on a broad political basis in Stortinget, by giving Norway's Bank an operational target of 2.5 pst. inflation as a management target for a continued stable exchange rate target. We have here in Stortinget a broad consensus on an action rule that says that we should use the real return on the oil fund, and not as some people constantly suggest, that we should withdraw the account of Norwegian citizens for all good purposes, but use some of the returns on investments that can give the community new development. In addition, of course, we have to take account of the economic situation and adjust it accordingly. It provides predictability in terms of building well-being. It also provides predictability in relation to the competitive sector, which then knows what the economic framework conditions will be and which knows that it will be invested in transport, in research and in framework conditions which have a significant impact on the competitive conditions of the competitive sector in the future. So we want to use our freedom of action to strengthen the health sector – spend money on health – but also have more of the money we spend on health. We want to strengthen the kindergarten sector, both by offering it to everyone, but also by making it cheaper. We will continue to have considerable support for the school leisure system. We have to make sure that the municipalities are able to take care of the schools physically better than they are doing today, so that we do not get in the country as many bad examples as in the Right-Handed Oslo on how the school appears. We need to reduce the proportions in school. We need to strengthen care for the elderly. We need to strengthen transport within a responsible economic framework. We also need to adjust – and this year – something about taxes. Some charges are falling this year, although you may not be able to get the impression of it in the daily debate. It has been signaled that stage I of the peak tax should be adjusted so that not as many – as today – pay peak taxes on relatively general income. And there are other relationships, such as: deduction of the trade union tax quota, which we believe should be adjusted. But there are adjustments. What we once again experience at the end of a big period is a huge flood of promises. We have now made proposals this evening – not then, but ‘we’ in the form of the debate here in Stortinget – about huge expenditure increases, for which there is no indication. There are also some who run the same race in relation to taxes. For the budget that we are revising, the Right's ambition was that taxes should be reduced by DKK 19.4 billion, mainly for business, and – to the extent that tax collectors will benefit from it – for those with absolute highest income. In order to achieve this, it was a proposal to cut the sick pay, so that a person such as the has NOK 300000 in income and would receive a tax relief of NOK 700, already in one day’s illness would have lost on the scheme to the Right, while those with over 1 million. kr income, of course would have earned on the scheme to the Right. There were proposals to cut into the AFP scheme and other arrangements that we believe are important to bet on. But then it's taken care of. During March, after the National Court meeting, the tax vows passed to the Right 40 billion kroner. And now the Right Tax Lifts are up to $78 billion, if one is going to take seriously what the Right Trust Commissioner says about the Norwegian tax level in the future. This reminds me a little of the election campaign in 1981 – for those of us remember it – where Kåre Willoch had to go out and ask his party leader Benkow to show some soberness. He did that already when the Right's promises passed NOK 10 billion. But there is no Willoch who intervenes in the lifting gap that is now taking place. Because, in addition to $78 billion in tax bills, there is now – in late night hours here – a much larger offer to the Defence Agency, a much larger offer for transportation and a greater offer for health, school and education – in addition to the huge promises of tax havens. These are promises that of course never in the world will be fulfilled. They are probably not intended to be fulfilled either – they are designed to attract voters. But it is a cross of thought – when we have the pressure in the economy that we have – that the kind of use of money might lead to a price and cost increase that would destroy the unique opportunity we now have to use our common space of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e765	There is a look-up in Today's Business today that I want to ask the representative Dag Terje Andersen something about. It says that the Ministry of Finance did not inform the Stortinget about the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health' view of who within alternative medicine would be exempt from VAT on their services. It goes on to say: ‘Schjøtt-Pedersen did not inform the politicians in Stortinget’s Finance Committee on the views of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on the matter. Not until Thursday of last week when the Financial Committee became aware of the recommendation.» What I want to ask the representative is: Did the working party fraction in Stortinget know about the Social and Health Ministry's view of who they thought would be exempt from VAT when the VAT reform takes effect? In the eyes of me and the Christian People's Party, it is better to exempt a form of treatment from too little. It has been very remarkable about the VAT reform in relation to alternative treatment. We have also had some rounds in the committee on this. My other question to Dag Terje Andersen is whether he can be a proponent to the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to exempt as much as possible from alternative medicine, and whether you can perhaps sit down and listen to what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health says on this matter. So, did the working party fraction know about this before the rest of us? Why were we not briefed? And can Dag Terje Andersen take on the task of being a driver in relation to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e781	I understood the question there to the point that former state councillor Answered Haugland probably has lived to some extent with the fact that the government she was part of allowed herself to represent with different views. We noticed that sometimes on the outside of that government. I assume that the answers that Stortinget gets from the Government are the views of the Government and the views of all government councils. That's how we in the Workers' Party are used to taking responsibility and sitting with government power. Others may explain the need for different government councils to fly around and represent different views. It was noted that it was part of the work of the previous government. So I assume that the government has expressed the government's overall view, and that it has done the same in the letters that have been answered. When we receive an answer from the Minister of Finance, as chairman of the Committee, I never ask questions to other expert councils to check whether they might have a different view on behalf of the Government than the Minister of Finance. I'm sorry that I have to spend time saying this, because it should be pretty obvious. With regard to the limits on the health part of the VAT reform, I know that the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of an overall government, is going to go through the limitations that have now been made in the regulatory work that has been carried out. But that's a little strange now, because we've actually been sitting together and making a budget agreement, where we agreed jointly on the legal basis for what should be within and what should be outside of the VAT reform. So, in addition, the government has been exempted from the rule of the Christian People's Party six months ago, after that, including named health services. Then it seems quite strange that the Christian People's Party is still in full swing from its own positions – even in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e792	At least you could say that the Right Party and the Labour Party have one thing in common, that both parties are talking about the Right Party. Now the Labour Party has had a central government meeting, I understand, and spent two days talking about the Right, and this post from Dag Terje Andersen was no exception. The problem is that you can't even stick to the truth, but you spread falsehoods, and you spread distortions that you've even launched in the press. The essay in today's newspaper was initiated by an enquiry from State Secretary Norheim to Dagbladet, who presented a number that we do not approve of. And then you hit it as the right number. It's a way to use the Ministry of Finance that I think you'll think well about before you go on with it. One can easily inflate respect for the office in that way. The second thing I want to say is that the chairperson of the Financial Committee should perhaps stick to his own documents and should guide his parliamentary leader to read the Budget. No 1 for 2000–2001, i.e. the financial position, where on page 18 there is a table that thoroughly rejects the tax rate used for income of, for example, 300,000 kroner. It says it’s very simple – and I’ll take the simplest table – that a single employee in tax class 1 gets a relief of NOK 1905 with our arrangement. That's not $700! So it has to be possible to quote from a setting. Of course, there are reliefs associated with taxes. If we stick to the estimates of the Central Statistical Office, average charges for a single person will amount to approx. $1,200. At least it must be possible to hold a debate where you stick to numbers that are pressed in the setting. Then you can agree or disagree on a lone parent, a lonely person, deserves $1,900 in tax relief, and whether that is a threat to the welfare state. If a lone parent, a single person, deserves $1,200 in tax relief, you can agree or disagree, but let's stick to actual numbers. In fact, I think the debate will serve that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e803	So the figure that I have recorded that today's daily newspaper uses, NOK 78 billion, comes from a relatively simple percentage based on the gross domestic product that Norway currently has. Of course, calculating percent of that can be done in the Ministry of Finance, but so can others — most of us have learned it. I, for my part, have also learned it at a branch school that was closed while the current representative of the city councilman, Enoksen, was Minister for Municipal Affairs. But I guess we'll come back to that later in the debate. So it's promised $78 billion in tax relief if we're going to take the Right Representative, in this case Børge Brende, says, seriously. I necessarily have to take that reservation. When the representative Foss ironizes in relation to the fact that I should have spread falsehoods, I have to say that I attach great importance to not doing so. But that's what I've recorded. Right now, every day, it's very important to do – about taxes, where they produce Norway as a high-tax country, despite the fact that we had to increase our taxes and taxes by 50 billion kroner if we were to have the same level as Sweden, and not least in relation to VAT, where various representatives from the Right have been out and complained that there is VAT on conductors, who have never been proposed, that Norwegian financial institutions lose relative to the rest of the world, which is direct misinformation. The active error information from the right side at point by point belongs to the order of the day. It marks the former serious party Right a day. And when the representative Foss takes on a warning against spreading falsehoods, I suspect that he is doing it on the basis of the known reality that the thief believes that everyone is stealing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e817	I'm not going to talk about taxes or taxes this time, I'm going to talk about the Workers' Party's betrayal of the workers. From the name, one would believe that the Workers' Party was a party for workers, and maybe it was like this once. In party speeches it may still be the same today, and there we also hear that it was the Workers' Party that built this country. In the real world, it's not like that anymore, of course, except in party speeches. This is experienced by the part of the workforce working in the civil engineering sector — and it is beneficial. More than 3,000 people are unemployed, more than 3,000 are unemployed, ready to take up the roof to build the country in the future, rather than passively sitting and receiving unemployment benefits. Machinery and equipment are unused and ready for use. We have labour, we have equipment, and not least we have money, more than enough of it. In other words, we have everything we need to build the country. And then what would be the party for the workers and for those who have built this country in the past? They don't want to spend money putting these unemployed hands into work, they don't want to spend money building up this country. The working party has a standard answer to all such questions. Every time the words 'use money' are mentioned, they say: inflation, pressure in the economy. And they repeat that to the boring. My question is: When you have this money and have the opportunity to use it, when we have unemployed workers who receive unemployment benefits, but who are ready to start working, when we have the machines – everything is right – how can there be pressure in the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e828	That's actually an internal good question. If we have free capacity, shouldn't we increase the activity? Our answer to that is yes. That's why we've submitted a transport plan proposal for the next period that assumes that we're going to spend $2 billion, almost every year more than what we spend in this period. The government proposed approx. SEK 1.3 billion more than the level of the year, and our population helped to raise it by 500 million. A quarter of a billion dollars. It was precisely justified in that we see that this is an opportunity to do something that we can get an effect out of when we put in more money, not just get increased prices, but actually get built more. So the starting point for the question is wrong. We have proposed more to that sector, because it is one of the priorities of the rule of action that we have now put before economic policy; for the sake of the people around the country, for the sake of the competitive industry and because there is capacity to do so. I am pleased that a representative from the Progress Party has so thoroughly underlined the importance of having national budgets, of having target management, of using resources in a good way for society – that is, what is called mixed economy, and which the Progress Party often distances itself from. I'm glad that the world is moving forward, and that we can agree that it's right to try to target ourselves towards what brings good social results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e838	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e841	In Norway, economic policy has been stable for a long time. Financial policy has been a little expansive, and the revised national budget also shows quite emphatically. We politicians must take a great deal of responsibility in relation to the distribution of financial policy, monetary policy and income policy. Money policy has been changed recently, but this has not led to major changes other than in theory. Still, we see that it's not exactly a decline in interest rates that is most often mentioned at the time. Price growth is essentially too high, and private consumption too. This is not good. But I would like to point out that the revised national budget does not address one of the really big problems we have here in the country, namely the lack of labour. SV has submitted a proposal in the revised national budget on that, and we from the Christian People's Party will support this proposal, where a plan to increase access to labour, which is one of the major challenges we have in our country today. The government has submitted a revision of the budget, and that's good. It's not a full budget round, and we'll be happy for that. We from the opposition also did not allow for a crisis when this was being dealt with. From the Christian People's Party and the Centre's side, we have proposals for redeployment of about $1 billion, and there is no more than one that can be expected when a manager manages a revised budget. I would like to mention a few points, including: in relation to VAT reform. First of all, I think it's a little funny with all these parties saying yes to VAT on services, but not exactly today - we have to wait until after the election before we can introduce it. And that's what they say about their grips. But I am also pleased that we have now taken part in the treatment of the VAT reform. The Christian People's Party has been involved in taking responsibility, we must also take the burdens, and we must be allowed to give notice when there is something we respond to. Firstly, I am very happy because we have got exempt companies that become subject to VAT, from the investment tax when it also falls away from 1 April 2002. I am also pleased that all voluntary organisations will be compensated for what they are burdened with in relation to the VAT reform – to name a few areas. In connection with the representative Dag Terje Andersen's answer when it comes to VAT on alternative medicine, I would remind him that from the Christian People's Party's side we actually stick to agreements, and one of the provisions of the agreement we had with the Government was that one should look at this with alternative medicine and VAT exemption. We asked for that. The government came back with a bad setup. We've had a lot of rounds, and now it's the Ministry of Finance that's going to come up with regulations. Then it is important to us that we also receive all the technical information on the table that the Ministry of Finance has available. Instead of hovering over the different positions of government councils in previous governments, I thought the representative could have answered my question, which he actually did not. We stick to the agreement, we want VAT exemption for alternative medicine, and we hope that it will be followed up in a better way than what Andersen, the representative, said in his statement. In addition, I would like to mention some of the major challenges we face when it comes to health. There are many challenges ahead of us, both in terms of health care and in terms of care for the elderly. That is why we are going to support proposals aimed at furthering the reform of the elderly. With regard to the proposal put forward by the Central Party, when it comes to hospital reform and detention in relation to the state, we must not make it possible for hospitals now to shut down wards and not treat patients because they do not have the means to do so. Waiting for the state to take over from 1 January 2002 to become too defensive. That is why we are going to support the proposal of the Central Party that is on the table today. There are not many weeks left for the election, and the government issue is addressed by both the one and the other. I see it as the working party's glamour may be over in Norwegian politics. They don't get it as good as some other social democrats in other countries do. The Labour Party has also – with the many years of power they have had – acquired a kind of culture and cooperation that makes not everyone else want to cooperate with the Party. This is a challenge for the party that they should take inwards. Then it's pointed out that it's Right that's the only real option for the Workers' Party. I think it's easier from the Workers' Party's side to say it that way. But I'd like to remind you that despite the poor sense measurements for some people today, there's also another option, that's the center option. In fact, we have three Prime Minister candidates – Jens Stoltenberg, Prime Minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik from the centre party and Jan Petersen from the right. It is not just the struggle between the Labour Party and the Right that is on the agenda. For the Christian People's Party, family policy has always been important, and included in it the bet on kindergartens has been important to the party, far more important than some political opponents want to join us. When we go for the options for the families of children, there are three points that I want to make. The freedom of choice provides cash support for those who do not choose kindergarten. It's one moment, it's in place. But I would also like to refer to nursery facilities for everyone and at a price that parents can pay. The last two elements are not yet in place. Now we have seen that the Right has changed its position when it relates to the funding of kindergartens. We're happy about that, now they don't want to support going directly to the family, but to the nursery where the child is. The Christian People's Party will support what is presented here from the Right and the Advance Party, because we believe that this will lead to the child care prizes going down, and not least that will lead to both the private and the municipal kindergartens getting the same state support. We hope that the Government will come back with an offensive plan when it does. I want to challenge the Labour Party in this matter. There is a rumor that the Labour Party itself is working on such a conversion. They can then take advantage of the opportunity to show by post today that they support the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. Document No 8:79, which we also deal with today, are proposals for ethical guidelines for the oil fund. The centre party has always wanted to establish ethical guidelines for the oil fund that take care of human rights and the environment – we did that in the previous period, and we did that in government. However, this requires better and more stable criteria and tools that can handle information in relation to investment on a very large scale. In addition, in the Human Rights Action Plan, the central government proposed a renewed assessment of the relevance of human rights rights vis-à-vis the Petroleum Fund. This would be done when one had gained practical experience with the management of the environmental fund, and in the meantime Norway would be a driving force internationally to develop tools and tools for caring for such concerns. The size joined this, and this implies that the Government is obliged to follow it up. For this reason, it is quite alarming that neither the Labour Party nor the Right has allowed itself to fall into a corresponding proposal here today, i.e. proposal No. 2 in the setting of Document No. 8:79. It has much the same wording and content as mentioned in the human rights action plan. International developments are also so fast that there should be a basis for a reassessment during 2002 for the establishment of ethical guidelines for human rights and the environment. These should be based on the experience gained internationally and from the management of our own environmental fund. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we believe that the Petroleum Fund should not invest in companies that produce landmines in violation of international conventions signed by Norway. We should get out of here. We still believe that it is in principle worrying if the Storting should start dealing with individual companies here in the hall. This belongs to the Government's own responsibility. The government must identify and verify which company it owes, and follow its guidelines in relation to this. This is why the Christian People's Party cannot vote for SV's proposal at this point. Another aspect that should also be considered is investment in companies involved in companies that fund war. We now have a situation in South Sudan that is difficult for us to deal with. We're trying to help out with conflict resolution, while it looks like our money is also helping to finance part of the war that's going on there. Finally, I will make all the proposals for which the Christian People's Party is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e877	The representative of Reply City Haugland has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e882	The Labour Party and the Centre have an agreement on the budget we have for the current year. And even though the Christian People's Party was not so keen to be involved in the revision of the national budget – after what they said at that time – we see, and that also confirms the response city of Haugland today, that the setting is a big deal. Even if one moves in a few million, there's a big deal about this setup, and of course we're happy about that. Many of these additions are needed. But what I want to challenge the Answer City of Haugland is a little bit of what she was about in her article on future government cooperation. I don't know if we're going to talk so much about today's Gallup, because after that, there's a lot of parties that don't get into the Storting, and it's probably necessary if you're going to be in government. But the Christian People's Party has opened up more and more for a cooperation with the Right. I now feel that the door is wide open so that the Right should be part of the government in which the Christian People's Party wants to be in. I also understand that there are talks with the Progress Party in relation to becoming President, because now they are going to have the big deal on the civilian side that the policy needs to be reformed. I think it's strange when I look at the settings of all these welfare arrangements and kindergartens, as the answer town of Haugland points out, which are so important. I agree that the price must be lower for parents – that is what we are forced to do. But all these welfare arrangements require an increase in income to the state. I'm not going to talk about the Right's taxes in the 70-billion-dollar class, I can stick to the 40-billion-billion-dollar class, and I'm going to ask the Answer City of Haugland: how can she imagine working together with the Right, who wants to have huge taxpayers, when the Christian People's Party is so busy taking care of these welfare arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e891	Now I'm not going to use the power to defend other parties' positions. They can do it on their own. But I want to make it clear that in the Christian People's Party – or Center, as far as I have an overview – we have not made an agreement, a cork of presidency or anything else. What we go to choices on is the center option. The center option is the Christian People's Party's choice, which we want to present to the voters. It's up to the selectors to decide if they'll allow us to create a new central government. I have not speculated in other government options, nor will I. But I know a lot of people are wondering. I also read newspapers and see what they write. We're observing this. But our alternative is center, and then the voters are going to decide if we're going to be able to form a new central government, which we want, and which I think will be good for Norwegian policy. There's a lot of sensible politics in the three center parties, and we've worked together and we've managed to become a few, despite the fact that we're different at some single point. The speculation that everyone else is doing is what we're observing. I want to say it this way: if we start to speculate in other alternatives, we weaken our own alternative. That's what I don't want to do. So, the Christian People's Party is going for the center option.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e898	I would agree with the last statement that there is a lot of reason in the three center parties. I agree with two thirds of that statement. My line is probably a little sideways, because in many ways was not the last post to Reply City Haugland directed to the Right. There was more of a sort of internal discussion between the settlement parties about what they were really settling about. I'm not going to put myself in that. I just want to note that parties that are being settled about the overall economic situation in a country can at least be very difficult to appear as main opponents. I think you should have a certain understanding that people don't see it this way. I note that there is still disagreement about VAT reform. I record that the Christian People's Party feels bad about the boundaries between school medicine and alternative medicine. At a press conference today at 4:00 p.m. 9 the Minister of Finance, according to the NTB press reports, ‘that all the exceptions and demarcation problems have now been resolved by the Department’. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party has given its authority to the ministry? Or is there still a discussion about the demarcation problems? The letter that is currently mentioned in the newspapers, which concerns alternative medicine, is a letter that I am familiar with being publicly available since February. After all, it is possible to ask for professional advice, including from other than the Ministry of Finance, especially in the case of medical problems, I would think.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e907	There is now an entry so that there is no government in this room that has had multiples in many, many years. Therefore, every government – and so I actually think it will be after the election too, if nothing very revolutionary would happen – depends on getting an agreement with the party on the Storting to get a budget. Right selected a pretty dull variant. They would only subsidize a budget that the central government provided. We chose in the fall to enter into a budget agreement, and stood for it. Then there'll always be something we're naked with, and something we're less naked with, just like there's something the government party is content with, and something the government party is less content with. This is the essence of politics if we want to do something, and it actually wants to do both me and the Christian People's Party. I certainly don't feel bad when it comes to the boundaries between school medicine and alternative medicine. I don't know how the regulations are designed; I haven't seen them, but I want to read them. The finance minister has said that they are in line with the comments we have made, and then we'll read and see if we're content. We have given strong signals that it is better to allow a form of treatment for too few exemptions than a form of treatment for too little. We have also expressed this in conversations we have had with the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party fraction. So I hope that when we see the regulations, we'll be content. If we don't get naked, we know the Minister of Finance's phone number.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e916	I want to ask about something that has actually been the subject before, and that is probably going to be discussed both today and in the election campaign ahead. For us who are outside the cooperation around the budget, this is a topic that is really quite incomprehensible. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) writes in its comments under employment policy the following: «Non-employment in some sectors limits the ability to bet.» Through meetings, letters and hearings, we have been thoroughly documented by both the employer and the employee that the construction industry has approx. 3 000 unemployed, and that 80 pst. the heavy equipment is currently unused. I have also received lists of planned projects that can be started immediately. So we have the workforce, the money and the projects. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party opposes the necessary appropriations. Does the Christian People's Party really think it's better to have these 3,000 people walking on a daily allowance? Highly qualified workers could do important community-based work. For reasons of safety: these are not workers who can be transferred to other sectors, such as: construction, and it is also important to clarify the urgency of doing so, both in the interests of workers and in the interests of the expensive equipment currently being sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e930	The representative Monsen points to a very important area. Lack of labour is – as I also said in my post – one of the major challenges facing us in Norway today. Therefore, we will support the SV proposal where a request from the Government will submit plans to increase labour force access. I want to challenge the Progress Party to join in on this proposal. When it comes to larger labour migration, the Progress Party and the Labour Party are the two parties who say no to it, but they could have helped improve the situation we have on the labour market when it comes to the lack of labour. When it comes to the construction industry, many of us have been in conversations with both LO and others. They point to the same thing as the representative of the Monsen. We have probably had a desire to use more resources in the construction sector, infrastructure and road sector, but we have not found any room for that. The alternative is to use more resources, so that we blow up the financial framework we have. The father spends much more money than we do today, as the government party has pointed out – I have to admit that I don't like it, but that's the way it is – is that we can increase the interest rate. And that would be very unfortunate for many others. It's clear that it's not good that these people go without work, it's clear that it's not good that the plant machines are there without them in operation, and it's clear that it's not good that we have a lot of unsolved tasks in this sector either. What I could imagine was getting a proper review of what we can do without creating greater pressure in our economy -- putting these people into business without creating greater pressure in our economy. I hope the Minister of Finance will continue to work on this. The moments that the Monsen drew out in her line to me are quite correct, but I don't have the very good answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e939	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e942	Since the recent much-discussed budgetary agreement for the current year, strong fiscal and tax responses have been made. This concerns both the increases in the very high level of taxes and taxes we had before, and the design of taxes and taxes we are now in the process of getting. The last increases made by the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties were probably too many drops that were requested to float over. Not least, many were disappointed that the Government proposed tax increases after the Workers’ Party – the Government Party – as late as last year’s revised national budget indicated that the Norwegian tax level was high and that there was no room for increases. Before this, the Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland was also at a well-known national meeting on 17 November 1998, I believe to remember it was, out with a quite comprehensive mention of the Norwegian tax level, and then in a political situation that was difficult for the Bondevik government. He stated very clearly that the Norwegian tax level was very high, and that the Workers' Party was set up for the next year, i.e. 1999, to go for no increase in either taxes or taxes. This statement is in stark contrast to what the Labour Party government did after it came to power and presented its first full budget for 2001. Then they proposed tax increases of 13,5 billion kroner! A little less was achieved through the central agreement, but still there was a record in tax increases. It is not surprising that new performances by the Minister of Finance on the front page of the VG, where he says that the level of taxation should not increase in 2002, will be met with mockery. People have heard this before, but it hasn't happened. People have their own opinion of the credibility of that kind of play. The Minister of Finance’s tax promise was then quickly demarcated as it really was: a guarantee that the Workers’ Party will increase new taxes and taxes in 2002 in order to finance the unpaid bills of the budgetary agreement. It is these unpaid bills in 2002 that the Minister of Finance is hiding behind when he claims, contrary to any reality, that there are no tax increases in the budget for the current year. There's every reason to warn against this tactic. From the government party you come now, when the Stortinget takes its last working day today, in the future to lick new pieces of candy. New political secretaries and state secretaries are going to run down the newspaper editorials to tell about all the good that comes to the harvest in different spending areas. Then it is time to ask questions about how this is to be financed. Then the answer to that will be, when it's brought to the bottom of the column: we'll get back to that in the budget for next year. This is the only answer we get when we ask the Workers' Party how they will finance the unpaid bills that are already in place, before the leakages start, in the agreement for the current year. Therefore, the government's beautiful promises are not very much worth. No one else is so accomplished in this that they only show off one side of the medal, as just the Working Party. Most people are thoroughly tired of the tax and tax levels. I think that's good reason. Norway has a tax and tax level at the top of the world. At the same time, public services are not good enough in a number of important areas. The provision of public welfare is disproportionate to a level of taxation and taxation at the global summit. So what is the Workers' Party's answer to this? Indeed, they believe that the Norwegian level of taxation is not high, in contrast to what they have said earlier, as late as in the famous Jagland speech in November 1998. They claim that it's actually pretty low, at least if you compare it to the countries that are the highest in the world, that's the rest of the Nordic region. Even this is wrong. The Labour Party also lives in this area in the past. It goes, and we've done it, to collect up-to-date data from the Internet from the finance departments of the respective countries – they're out. The figures for 2001 show that mainland Norway and Denmark are roughly equal to around 49 pst. taxes in proportion to GDP. Finland is about 45 p.p., which is clearly lower than Norway. What is true, on the other hand, is that the Swedish, for the time being, have a higher level of taxes and charges than we do. In 1997, if we go back, the Swedes had a tax level of about 55 pst. GDP. Since then, Sweden's tax level has fallen every year. In 2001, the Swedish Ministry of Finance estimates that the figure will be around 51 pst. of GDP, and that it will come down to 50 pst. in 2002. There's a decrease of almost 5 percentage points in five years. It is not long before Sweden has a lower level of taxation than Norway, according to the figures now collected. Norway will then have the world’s highest level of taxation — not shut down. It might be in place to remember Gro Harlem Brundtland's words: It's typically Norwegian to be good. She should add that at least it applies in the field of taxation. It should not surprise anyone, when you see this high level combined with the impression that Norway is quite rich in oil and gas revenues, that you do not understand the relationship between having such a high level and being so rich. Should not ordinary people also benefit from the wealth that flows to the state? In addition to the tax increases and the high level, there is a third reason for reactions and for the tax burden that is now most common among people. It is the VAT reform. I'm not going to go into all of the examples, they're familiar with the media coverage of the last few months. There is clearly a problem that such a comprehensive reform, with major problems of demarcation, is being pushed through in a short time without proper consultation and without proper time for thorough treatment in the United Kingdom. When the treatment in Stortinget ends with clarifying the last details of the regulations by phone between the settlement parties after the Stortinget has split up, there is some evidence that this is unprepared and that the poor businessman who is going to deal with this may have a problem. Let me add that it is probably not everyone who has the opportunity, like Mrs. Svarstad Haugland, to call the Minister of Finance to sort out their VAT accounts. This is part of the background that the Right went towards the whole reform, and I have to say that in retrospect it has turned out that we got it right: it was poorly prepared. It is pathetic when the Workers' Party's new strategy is to claim that the Right really is in favour of the VAT reform. The right point of view is: we do not exclude that in some areas currently exempt from VAT there may be grounds for imposing VAT. However, in the view of the Right, this has to be determined after a much more thorough treatment than we have seen now. In addition, in line with the Government's proposal, we want transitional arrangements to reduce the problems of distortions of competition between those who invest before and after such a reform and to provide entrepreneurs with a certain degree of predictability. Following such a thorough process, it may be thought that the Right would support the extension of VAT to some new areas. But it makes no sense to claim that the Right is in favour of a reform we in the Storing have voted against. When the Minister of Finance at a press conference today says that this has been supported by the Right throughout the 1990s, I would challenge the Minister of Finance to find evidence for it. For the first time, last year, when the VAT reform was presented to the Stortinget, we had taken our position. I ask to be respected for the position that has been taken in the Storting, and that is well the expression of some sort of desperation when you have to seek the support of others for a reform you feel a bit problematic about. I have also noted with interest the Workers' Party's warm defence for lower food tax, an action that finance ministers from the Workers' Party – yes, not only finance ministers, but also the Workers' Party's spokespersons in such cases – have argued well against throughout the 1990s; some have even continued to do so. However, after the Workers' Party lost this case in the agreement with the centre parties last year, we have seen an example without parallel that we are trying to turn defeat to victory. Now it is the food tax that is the Workers' Party's support bar in the defence of the state budget for this year. I actually think that kind of hunches is something people see through and understand. In this context, I am going to skip to mention the food tax, just pointing out that we are against the halves that have taken place, and have a different system of tax cuts related to the reduction of electricity tax, airport and passenger charges, petrol and diesel taxes, alcohol taxes and one-off car charges. At the same time, the Right proposes a number of new initiatives in key spending areas. I am pleased that the Right has won through especially in the field of research. The research fund is receiving increased funding. There is now a majority in favour of a tax system that stimulates enterprises to invest in research and development. We get a majority on the way to increasing university appropriations, the conversion appropriations, which are particularly important. And I have to say that this willingness to research is happy that we have joined; research is the foundation of the society of the future, and it is an area in which Norway, unfortunately, has gradually become attached to other countries. It would have been nice if we had also received a majority for some of the additions in the school sector, not least on post-secondary education, but we'll have to wait until next year's budget. At the same time, the Right also proposes increased appropriations for road investment, for police and prisons and for regional hospitals. For treatment today is also St.meld. No 2, revised national budget, in addition to the appropriations themselves. One point I've noticed here is the review of the industry sector. It appears that the industry has now lost market shares abroad every year for four years, and this development will continue according to the Government. At the same time, we see employment in the export industry falling. We now have more disability pensioners than employed in industry. It says something about the country's structural problems. Norway currently has a high level of interest rates, and there is a risk of further increases. We have high inflation. According to the Central Statistical Office, the growth in consumer prices has been 4.3 pst. in the last 12 months. On top of this, the Labour Party has greatly increased taxes and taxes. In other words, people now get a triple message from the Government and from the Workers' Party: high interest rates, high inflation and high taxes and taxes. At the same time, we have a school that is not good enough, a health care system that is characterized by hospital cows, cows on roads and tendencies towards relocation of businesses and businesses. So we see that the Labour Party's policy is building down the business world to make room for an ever-increasing public sector. This is the welfare state of the Workers' Party. That is what the Labour Party is defending when they attack the Right because we want to change the policy. On the right, there is a vision of a welfare society where the pension is more secured through individual schemes, where taxes and taxes are lower and give people greater freedom, where companies move to Norway and where the knowledge industry dominates the competitive sector. Then we need the world's best school and a university and research sector that is internationally competitive, at least in some important areas. Such a vision cannot be translated into practice overnight. The more important it is then to start with one of the most pressing problems, namely the lack of labour. We have put forward the following proposals in this last session and in the bulking period as a whole: We want to allow for increased labour migration. We will reduce the number of sick days consumed by excesses. We're going to reduce the tendency to use disability and AFP pensions. We want changes in the old age pension, so that most people get more reward if they stand one year or two or three more before they retire. We want less bureaucracy. Only the VAT reform itself requires 200 employees, has the Ministry of Finance informed. We will remove the county. We want measures that get people back to work faster in the event of illness and suffering, regardless of who pays and does the treatment. We want to compete with public services to ensure that we get the best possible services for the lowest possible use of resources. These are some of the measures taken to increase access to labour. In total, these measures will be appropriate. They will enable us to better solve the societal challenges and, at the same time, provide room for lower taxes and taxes – without harming the Norwegian economy. At the same time, the measures I have mentioned have one common feature: the working party is largely against everyone. The Workers' Party calls it the fury of the welfare state when we propose it. Of course it isn't. These are some of the measures that will give us new courses and opportunities for the welfare community. This is what makes it possible with lower taxes and taxes and a better school. In conclusion, I allow myself to address the proposals where the Right is alone or the largest proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1019	The representative Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1024	Let me begin by addressing the proposals that the Labour Party has made or are co-sponsors of. That was the formality. I noticed that the representative Foss said we were building down our business in Norway. And that's what the representative Foss says at the time when employment is higher than it's ever been. Norwegian companies, one after the other, produce record results, and we have better control of future expenditure than any other country around us. It was described by the Right in the day as if it were the valley of the world itself. I wonder if we're done with that. Life isn't easy, but it's very close to as difficult as the Right wants it to. And one example of this is the reform of VAT. Now a campaign has been going on for a long time with active error information from the Right. This concerns VAT on conductors, which led the campaign in a few days, until everyone realized that it was never suggested. In the case of financial institutions, which the representative Foss claimed should set up the interest rate because of the VAT reform, until that ball was laid dead and he went on the slippery day after. Quite recently, there was a report in the NRK about the difference in VAT in Stortinget's own canteen and the canteen that was set aside for the operation of others, which was obviously wrong, but which was nevertheless produced as correct. Then my question is, shall it continue like this? And my second question is, is what Jan Petersen says about 40 billion in tax laws, or is what Børge Brende says about 78 billion in tax laws, which is the right thing for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1035	The President will assume that ‘walking on the floor’ is not part of the parliamentary language. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1040	I get the tone that Dag Terje Andersen is not feeling well by day, but I'll take it easy, I think. And let me say that if Dag Terje Andersen needs advice on how to deal with bad polls and bad results, it's just asking us. We can all answer and have been doing this for many years. So in that consulting area, we were going to be able to do a little bit of each of them. I haven't said that Norway is the valley of the world. What I have actually produced is what it says in the government's own documents. The competitive sector falls, both in market shares and in employment. It's indisputable. I think maybe you should stick to it, rather than just think of a number of funny words and expressions about something completely different. Dag Terje Andersen claimed that we are actively providing incorrect information. Let me just take the example of Stortinget's canteens, since it's nearby. That look in a TV channel was actually based on information from the Ministry of Finance, by one of the officials. And it might well show that the question of limiting what canteen operations are as part of its own business, and what is contracted business, can be somewhat difficult, to say it cautiously. His second example was from the finance industry. I do not know which expression is parliamentary, but I stand by every word I have said in that context. It is clear that if the financial industry is charged increased VAT expenditure of 800 million. kr, as the Ministry of Finance believes they do – so it is stated in the document – or at approx. 1.5 billion kroner, as the industry itself thinks they do, whether it's the highest or the lowest number, the customer is going to have to pay for this anyway. If you think the banks take this on their own and don't forward the bill, I actually have to allow myself to say that then I think you're naive in relation to how the market works. As a result of the VAT reform, the increased costs of banking and insurance are going to be borne by some, and some of them are our regular customers, either in the form of increased fees or in the form of increased interest margins – which means increased interest rates for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1049	Over 10–15 years, a number of patients in the West were mistreated by a former dentist. Mistreatment led to too many major problems, severe pain, partial disability and, for some, mental disorders. 66 of these patients have filed an action for damages against the State because of their supervisory responsibilities. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes a cleanup of these assets. Clean-up is based on State co-financing of treatment costs. But then the government imposes a claim for state support, it should be given only if the recipient renounces future claims against the State founder of its supervisory responsibility. In the Christian People's Party, we have clearly expressed, in the form of a note, that we are strongly dissenting in the terms of the Government here. We believe that this is an important principle of law, while the Right also in this case stands behind the Government's terms of support for the dental victims. Can the representative Foss explain the fundamental background of Right's position here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1058	Yes, as you can see, there are not the major problems of principle between the Christian People's Party and the Right. In this case, I believe that in particular the Government has reached a reasonable conclusion and that has a reasonable level of coverage in other case-law. If you enter into a settlement, you accept a replacement, you also get to say that it is the last word that has been said about the matter. Then you must not continue to pursue justice at the top of it. I think that's reasonable, and we've accepted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1065	Every year throughout this period, in the context of the revised national budget, the Financial Committee has ensured that all newly trained police students work. This year, in contrast to all the other years, a majority of the financial committee ensures that this does not happen. The majority has granted 17.5 million. kr, which means that only a few of the police college students will go straight to work instead of going straight to unemployment. I've even heard the report that Oslo Police District could need 200 of the newly educated to overcome the wave of crime in Oslo. Then I have recorded that in one of the police students' own writings it has been stated by the representative Foss that the Right would of course consider proposing more funds if it had been possible to assume that there was going to be a majority for that. But all the experience suggests that you have to propose these things in order for it to be a basis for bringing together a majority. Very well-known is only the Progress Party who has made suggestions in the recommendation on the adequate means for all the students to get to work. Secondly, the Central Party has the second best allocation. What is the reason why the Right this year, in contrast to all previous years, has chosen to send important and competent graduates directly to leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1074	I don't know if the representative Siv Jensen has got it all with him, but the police high school today is not a high school – it's not like everyone who comes out of the police high school has a claim to get a job in an office – it's after the conversion a college where you have to apply in the usual way. This time we have given the greatest priority to what we think is the biggest problem, namely the queues. In fact, I am surprised that the representative Jensen does not place so much emphasis on it either, because it has been one of the strong parts of the debate of the Progress Party now in ours, namely that it is where it is essentially failing. So a little bit on the way, we're going to have a majority here. At the police's operating budget, we have 27.5 million. kr in additions, of which 17,5 million. kr goes directly to job creation, while others go to special measures which also involve jobs. So the correct amount is not 17.5 million. NOK 27,5 million. kr. Whether this gives the creation of a number of jobs that give all police college students who want to apply, a job – and I underline: not necessarily looking for a job in the Oslo area, but looking for a job in Norway somewhere – there has been some confusion about that. I understand this on the information I received just before this debate, that the Ministry of Justice expects that if what is now up to adoption is adopted, it will only be 50–60 students who have not got a job before the summer starts – before the summer starts. I have to say that is quite well taken into account that the Ministry of Justice has also informed me that there will be vacancies as a result. So here I think you've been stretching a lot. And let me say it this way: it wasn't at any time during the committee's work that suggested that there would be a majority for a higher grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1083	The chord shift has been completed. Before we move on to the ordinary list of speakers, Lars Sponheim is given the floor for a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1088	Since I have not been allocated speaking time, I will be allowed to raise proposal No. 120 on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representatives of Vidar Kleppe and Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1093	Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1097	The government presented a revised budget with some salts. It is boasted that the country's net revenues from petroleum activity are rising by NOK 33.5 billion compared to the balance of the budget. There is a real increase in taxes paid and taxes of approximately NOK 6.7 billion. The oil fund is estimated to be DKK 41 billion larger than expected. It seems that the current balance sheet with the rest of the world is being strengthened by 45 billion more than expected, now estimated at a total of 200 billion kroner. Then, of course, the government will spend $6.6 billion less of the so-called oil money than was foreseen in the budget this fall. In other words, the state makes more money than expected. And then, according to the government's logic, you're going to spend even less money on the population. Some magic formula has led to this being called budgetary balance sheet. I note that an additional NOK 6.7 billion has been calculated in revenue from taxes and levies. What does the government do with that? Well, they take it into account and reduce the use of oil money. Think if they could say: So great, then we can reduce some taxes or taxes to fix some of the mistakes we made in the fall! And even better, because, among other things, the increased electricity charge led to increased inflation: Yes, let's reduce it then, so we can contribute to reduced inflation! But in other areas, that's exactly what you do. Estimate errors are detected and corrected. We've come into an evil circle in the Norwegian economy. Increased taxes and charges lead to an increase in prices, which in turn leads to an increase in wages and salaries, which in turn will lead to an increase in wages and salaries. The sum of this increases the interest rate ghost. And what is the Government's answer to that? Well, they say, we need a high level of taxes to ensure the welfare state. But when did this become an established truth? We have room for action. We have an economic freedom in this country that most other countries in the world can only dream of. Our state wealth has now become our greatest enemy. We are not managing directors of the ‘AS Statskasse’, where our goal should be to maximise profits. We are representatives of the Norwegian people, and then it's them that we have first and foremost obligations to take into account. Recently, statistics have been provided by the Central Statistical Office to show that the debt of the Nordics is increasing in 2001. It is not so strange when the government takes more and more of our wages and salaries, while at the same time increasing the prices of goods and services through increased taxes. Then it says itself, the ends are still going to meet for each of us, and somewhere we have to actually manage to finance it. The main purpose of the revised budget is to adjust the budget. But it means just as much that if something has happened during the year that was not taken into account in the budget, there is a responsibility to do something about it in the revised budget. And what's happened during the year? We know that 3,000 people lose or have lost their jobs in the construction industry. Since most of them have no other job to go to, they become unemployed and go to social security. Why in the world do we not allocate money for road construction, which would be a sensible investment, which would lead to a reduction in transport costs and a more profitable social economy while reducing expenditure on the social security budget? This isn't just cynical, it's stupid. We know that there are major problems in several of the country's hospitals. No later than Wednesday, the management of four of the country's major hospitals was outside warning of the situation. But the money is and will remain closed. We know that the municipalities build too few hospitals, and that this is mainly due to the State grant per. space is too low. Why don't we increase the state subsidy when we talk about the need for adequate care for the elderly in all celebrations? We know that at least a couple of hundred newly educated policemen are going to be sent straight out on leave. In other words, the budget balance is more important to the majority in this Chamber than combating the wave of crime. Can the Minister of Finance please explain to me why there will be higher interest rates in this nation if we consider these in an already hard-pressed police force, rather than giving them leave? It is completely impossible to understand, but perhaps the Minister of Finance can explain it. And when it's said, once again, we've witnessed a shocking criminal act. Enough of a shooting drama. And we can't let do anything about it, because then it'll happen again. In today's VG, you have an overview of several of the gangs that are in the center of Oslo. And these crowds are laughing at the Norwegian authorities, they're laughing at the police, and they're on their way to establishing the street tyranny. People are scared. Yes, people are scared – it’s not something you just throw around with. It's a reality that we have to take inwards. Then we must take immediate action. We have to act now before we take vacation. I have therefore allowed myself, on behalf of the Progress Party, to present a series of proposals on weapons use, investigation, strengthening the operational budget of the police, especially in Oslo, and the armoring of police cars. It's crazy that the Oslo Police have such a poor budget that at the time of the week when crime is worst, on the weekends – night to Saturday and Sunday – the police can't afford to put enough patrols into the streets. These are measures that the police themselves want. And even though we have to do more -- much, much more -- this is at least this important step. I therefore expect these proposals to be widely accepted tonight. For no one in this room can travel on a summer vacation without voting in favour of these proposals! Then it's the VAT reform. It deserves, in my opinion, the title «Our worst adventures». The definition of services to be exempted from the tax on 1 July remains equally unclear and the borderline cases are still equally hopeless. We recognise that several countries in Europe have VAT on services. But there is reason to say that the VAT reform that is now being implemented is an accident because it affects businesses by accident. There has been a bubble of lobbyists who have trodden down the Stortinget ever since this fall. And everyone has very good arguments that that service and that service must be totally exempted. Someone has succeeded, others have failed. But the vague demarcation, these coincidences and the hole of work done by the ministry will lead to consequences that no one has an overview of. The government says they don't think the reform will have any impact on inflation or interest rates. I think the government must believe again. If we can't really do anything about these completely acute areas, but at the same time, we can spend $2 billion on eradicating the debt of the NSB – as the Storting did yesterday – yes, we have a problem. We have a problem taking inward reality. And it can't be that every time this room is going to discuss budgets, we're going to lock down to the budget balance rather than looking at how each action will affect different parts of the economy. But that's what we do, every single time – and that's probably the reason why the political contempt just increases. That's also why we're seeing a lot of opinion polls right now. Because there is a growing disparity between the decisions taken in this room and the people out there expect us to do on their behalf. Then someone has to start putting their finger in the ground and get a reality perception that harmonizes more with the people most in possession of. And it's not that the magically defined budget balance is so magical that if we make some reasonable decisions and use the space of action that we have after all, yes, it's inflation, it's interest rate increases, and then it goes all the way across with the Norwegian economy. There are no parties in this room who want it! All the games in this room are occupied with exactly that: helping to keep interest rates as low as possible. But if that's what the Minister of Finance says, that the increased charges lead to increased inflation, which in turn exerts pressure on interest rates, yes, then it must also be that reduced taxes themselves contribute to reducing inflation and provide a basis for lower interest rates in the long term. It's a perfectly obvious context. But then the Minister of Finance disagrees. He agrees with the first part of the reasoning, but disagrees completely with the second. Then we have a problem. For what, then, is there to reduce the tax burden in this country, if there is always to be argued that any relief will lead to pressure in the economy? It's nonsense! It is good that more and more people in this room are seeing the need for severe reductions in tax burden. At the end of the day, I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote and those who have been distributed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1138	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1143	When I hear the representative Siv Jensen from the Progress Party, I get the urge to move from Norway, because it is so terrible to live here. The description of reality she comes with is strange to me. When she says at the same time that she is a representative of the Norwegian people who knows what the Norwegian people want, I get even more worried. I think it is important to have a policy that includes most of the groups – women, children, young people, the elderly, workers, the unemployed, etc. And when I look closely at the policies of the Progress Party, I actually see quite clear battle sites. Let me take the group that I'm occupied with, women. They serve less than men — that is, a tax relief for women means less than for highly paid men, for example. Women are more often ill than men, because pregnancy goes under disease, and men's days are actually also more expensive for women than for men. Women are users of culture. We use cultural services more often, and when the Progress Party is raging the grant to culture, it means that the leisure that women want is affected by the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party. Women are engaged in the work environment law and in order to be both carers and workers. With the liberalisation proposed by the Progress Party, it becomes difficult for women. I am aware that the reduction in fees that the Progress Party is in favour of will be an advantage for women and men, so that is not what I am asking for. My question to the representative Siv Jensen is: Does she not feel that the human-dominated Progress Party actually has a anti-female policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1156	No, I don't. On the contrary. And unlike the representative Fossum, I don't want to cut all women over one comb, but treat women – and men – as individuals. When the representative Fossum stands on this platform and talks about the need to pursue a policy that includes most groups, I will stand on this platform and talk about a policy for individuals – a policy that allows each individual, every citizen in that country, to make decisions without us sitting in this room and pretending that we know better. It is a policy that is also a good policy for women. Why, in all days, is it that all women in this country should be only concerned with cultural use, or work environment law or career days, as highlighted by the representative Fossum? Why in all days should we not, as women, be equally concerned that there is a charging policy in this country that is such that they could also afford, for example, to drive in cars that are safe, when they are to carry the most precious things they have, namely their children? With the Labour Party's policy, these people are given the opportunity to drive around in tiny, frail, unsafe cars, and in a collision situation they will never be able to get away with it with their lives. It should be as busy as being busy with day-to-days. And women should be as busy as men of treasures. What kind of claim is this that women are not concerned with tax havens? I personally am at least that, but it is possible that I do not fall into the category of women as defined by Grethe Fossum. But once again, the individual and their rights should be the focus of politics, not the group thinking. And finally, there's no reason to want to move out of this country. I think we all want to live here. But our job is to make it an even better place to live than a worse place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1167	The Progress Party has a lot of money to spend on different measures. In school matters, the Christian People's Party, together with the Advancement Party, stands in some cases, for example: in grants for compensation of pay for private schools, grants for school fees for pupils at international schools in Norway and grants for United World College. We also want a strong commitment to research and higher education, and propose measures to counteract the inaction of the Government's research policy. On 14 April last year, the representative Evje had an interpellation in the United Kingdom about the closure of small schools, where she said: ‘This is not good. It is simply a self-rescue-based policy without compromising future views of continued life in District Norway.’ Yes, the Christian People’s Party also agrees with these words. But we're doing something about it. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed 50 million. kr in additional means of discretion, so that cross-border schools can be ensured further. The Progress Party has a different idea of local economy than the Christian People's Party, but now their model does not get through. The revised budget shall not re-examine numerous policy issues, but proposals shall be made in areas where the problems are most acute, says the Progress Party. The Progress Party programme states that they should ‘make provision for the maintenance of cross-border schools’, and this was also done at the last budgetary procedure, which proposed 25 million. Extra kroner. On page 75, the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and the Left, has a note about the branch schools that are now threatened with closure, and we suggest that it is important to maintain the branch schools, and propose to increase the grant over the county council's discretionary pool by 50 million. kr, allocated to municipalities with decommissioned schools. Why is there no link between words in the programme of the Progress Party and this that they cannot vote in favour of such a proposal in the context of revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1187	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding. It is not that the Advance Party has more money than the Christian People's Party. We just have a different view of how they're going to be used. That's the whole difference. Then to the branch schools. When the Christian People's Party sat in government together with the Center Party and the Left, these three parties had many opportunities to make an uplift for the branch schools in this country. And they didn't. It was during the reign of these three parties that the branch schools were in fact the hardest hit and the hardest hit, and that we still saw closures, and that is from the three parties that are trying to present themselves as best friends of the districts. At that time, some of us were pressured to increase the appropriations for the primary schools, so that we would have a predictable framework and the opportunity to survive. I do not remember that at that time it was so terribly important for the Christian People’s Party. But the Progress Party has been working for several years to strengthen the mainstream schools, because it is an important supplement, especially in the districts where there is a long way between the big cities and where cross-border schools are an important alternative, especially for small children. Then it becomes a bit artificial – to say it nicely – when the Christian People's Party today suddenly takes on their hats where they are going to be burningly concerned about the future of the schools, but when they had the chance, they left something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1194	The Right Party and the Advance Party agree that the level of taxes and charges needs to be reduced, and that much can be done to improve welfare services, so I should not ask questions about it. When I listen to the representative Jensen, I get associations about the lotto millionaires as they are presented in the advertisement film. At least they are not particularly concerned about tomorrow, and there are some similarities between the way in which lottomillionaires are produced and the policies of the Progress Party. Both are happy to spend money and perhaps not so busy with what to live on tomorrow. Of course, I am thinking of the attitude of the Progress Party towards the competitive sector. Not long ago, Carl I. Hagen said he didn't care much about the fact that there would be fewer employees in the competitive sector with the policies of the Progress Party. In today's business he replied well when he was confronted with this last fall: and so what? My question to the representative Jensen is whether she shares Hagen's position on the competitive sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1203	Let me first say that I actually disagree with the considerations expressed by the representative Sanner in the case of lottomillionaires. More and more lotto millionaires who are interviewed in different magazines, magazines, TV, etc. are very naked people who are a bit surprised to record that they receive a couple of three million dollars, put them on book and live on a normal life. In fact, this is what is representative of the lottomillionaires in Norway – they are the naked, ordinary people. So then we have a different view of how to manage our wealth than the Right has, because in this case, the Right fully agrees with the Labour Party. They're not going to spend any more of our wealth making the population enjoy it. It has to be saved, and it has to be saved. We're going to save so much that we can save ourselves. We agree on the need to reduce taxes and taxes. We agree that it also means a significant increase in the efficiency of the public sector and other parts of the economy. We fully agree on that. But that also means that with our space of action, we can use some of our wealth on, among other things. Today to invest in our own future. Why in every day would it be inflation if we moved some of our wealth from an oil fund located abroad and invested in sensible measures that in the longer term will provide us with savings and efficiency in our own economy? Why in every day is it wrong? When, for example, In the revised budget, it has proposed the creation of a fund that allocates the required billions of DKK so that over a 20-year period we can finance the fighter aircraft for the defence, so it is not a proposal to spend 30 billion dollars today, but it is a proposal that ensures the defence of the adequate framework they have requested. And it's not irresponsible, it's another way of budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1212	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1215	In the process of completing the last debate of this ageing period, we are experiencing a Norwegian economy in good condition, government finances are excellent, most people feel more liberal in their own everyday lives, and unemployment is at a low level – to take some of the signs that most of us are doing well. But despite this, many people experience their own situation as difficult, and feel that the public services do not stretch to, are not good enough. In the last few days of the review of the revised national budget and after the financial committee had given its opinion, we have seen a stream of enquiries about schools that are being closed down. It's actually not right, as the representative Siv Jensen said, that nothing was done by the central government to strengthen the branch schools. On the contrary, even earmarked schemes were put in place to strengthen cross-border schools. We are now experiencing many historical proposals for the closure of cross-border schools. We also receive enquiries from municipalities that need to increase kindergarten prices and reduce the number of offers, hospitals that need to reduce activity and say no to the very weakest patient groups. We are responding to major deficiencies in the transport sector, with racial risks on many important road sections, lack of maintenance and investments that are only partially carried out. But despite the good economic situation we're in, we're not able to solve these problems, which too many people experience as precarious. Per-Kristian Foss said in his main post that the voters had a right to know who would pay the bills for the many promises that the Workers' Party will make in time towards the election. I agree with Per-Kristian Foss on that. But right answers, large and irresponsible tax reliefs, will not remedy the situation that many people experience — on the contrary. That situation will be reinforced. The right-hand community structure will lead to even worse schooling, even more expensive kindergartens, even more problems for disadvantaged groups by e.g. will weaken the health pay system, even more cross-border schools will be closed, even more farmers will have to give up their life's work because the Right will cut raw incomes of farmers. I do not disagree that there is a need to look at fiscal policy – on the contrary. There's every reason to do that. We have to see if the fees function like the intention of the fees is for them to work. It's the Center Party set to be on. We also need to look at how we can better align the tax system in order to improve the situation of the weakest groups in particular, and how we can strengthen active long-term ownership of business now when the sharing model is to be removed, at the initiative of the centre parties. It is important to facilitate a tax policy towards business that stimulates innovation and development. But right-wing promises of tax relief do not solve the problems that most people now feel on their bodies. It is therefore regrettable to note that the main opponents of Norwegian policy – the Right and the Workers’ Party – are now united in a major coalition on many of the key political issues we face. Tax policy distinguishes these two parties thoroughly, but unfortunately there is also one of the few questions where they have not found each other. They have found each other in environmental policy, in view of EU membership, in the centralisation policy pursued, in the view of state ownership – no later than today, we have been given examples of how the Workers' Party is now selling down, almost after the entry method, in large companies such as Telenor. We also see this in relation to the modernisation policy, where the last example is the support of the Minister for Child and Family Affairs to the Right Kindergarten policy. It is therefore not only the centre party, but also many of the rapporteurs from the Labour Party, who react to the fact that, during yesterday's proceedings, the Labour Party chose support from the Right and the Advance Party. Workers' party rapporteurs in North Norway are furious that the Workers' Party thanks such support for not giving more money to schools and kindergartens locally, or for saying as the rapporteur in Balsfjord, from the Workers' Party, I get a way back. This is not the case with the undersigned, but with the rapporteur in Balsfjord. And on the other hand, there has to be more consistency between what the Labour Party leadership says and the framework that the municipalities have at their disposal. Center wants to give Municipality-Norway 300 million. extra in the revised national budget just to strengthen schools, to strengthen kindergartens, and to be able to solve other tasks that local authorities would like to prioritise. The central parties want, inter alia: To save those over 160 schools that are now in danger of being laid down, but we note that there is no political will to do this from a majority in the Grand Duchy. The Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party seem to be clearly that the closure of these types of schools is part of the so-called modernisation of the public sector. For us in the Central Party, national and local self-government is important, but local self-government is to become more than rhetoric and municipal politicians than hostages for government cuts, it requires that we increase the income of municipalities, and that there be a match between the tasks that politicians impose on municipalities, and the means that they get to accomplish these welfare tasks. Then we cannot waive the responsibility. We have to take responsibility, we have to admit it, and we have to do something about the situation of the elected locals instead of constructing debates that misplace the facts. There is a link between local economy, school and well-being. It is precisely we at Stortinget that can do something about these matters. When Stortinget wants better schools and better well-being for most people, we know that it is the municipalities that have to fulfill the wishes and fulfill the promises we as big-scale representatives, which we are going to give, and which we are going to give in time to the election. In 1997, Anne Enger Lahnstein took the initiative of an earlier settlement that raised the minimum pension by NOK 1 000 per month. Recently, the Center Party took a similar initiative towards children and young people, which all parties, except the Advance Party, say they will give priority to the growing-up period we are entering. So far, we haven't managed to bring together the other parties to achieve such a common promise for children and young people, but if there's real will and a desire to strengthen, give a boost to, schools, kindergartens and the elderly sector, I would remind you that it was actually yesterday that we had the test of whether the willingness to implement these promises was present. Yesterday the test on it took place in connection with the treatment of the municipal economy for next year. The Right Party and the Workers' Party then had the opportunity to show that they are serious about their promises. They can also do so in the revised national budget today, but we have to record that there is actually no majority in order to give such a boost to the local government sector. This does not mean giving children and young people a lift to school – we do not get a better kindergarten, we do not get lower kindergarten prices without the municipalities being financially able to do so. So yesterday – and today – we have had the Lacnut Test itself on whether these parties are serious about their election vows. Unfortunately, that test has not been passed. The center party and the other center parties are the only parties that have followed up the promises we have made about investing in school and kindergarten, with the money it actually costs. Then it may be easy for many to say that the head of the Center Party was himself in the Ministry of Local Affairs for one year. What did the leader of the Center Party do in that situation? I've honestly admitted, even while I was a municipal minister, that we didn't get enough done. We gave the municipalities a boost, even in a situation where the country's economy was extremely difficult, where the stock exchanges around the world ran, where interest rates rose to well over 10 p.m., and it was necessary to take heavy, economic thanks to be sure that unemployment would not increase and that the economy would not get off the rails. We took that responsibility, but despite the large cuts in some areas, we were able to give priority to the municipal sector and give a boost to the municipal sector. We should have come further, but now we're actually in a situation where that's not the case. The sector in which we had to cut, in the difficult situation in which we were then in, was the transport sector. I've also recognized that many times before. And we now see that we have a lot of unemployment in the transport sector. Over 3,000 are available. We have major unsolved tasks in this sector – race protection that has not been carried out, central, heavily trafficked roads that are exposed to rock race every week, maintenance that gets bigger and bigger aftermath. Despite that, and despite the fact that it is now almost three years since we were in the difficult economic situation that made it necessary to cut the travel appropriations, it is only to record that there is actually no willingness in the Storting to make the necessary priorities in order to get the free hands to work, in order to put the 3,000 who are now on leave, into sensible and necessary work, with racial security, with maintenance and with solving some of the many investment tasks that remain. Finally, with the exception of proposal No, I would like to address the proposals on which the Central Party is solely concerned. 85. The Central Party is left alone in the vote on the revised national budget – but paradoxically it was unanimously adopted yesterday, despite the fact that no other party would be in favour of it. I also deal with the proposals where the Central Party is the largest party among the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1257	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1262	Enoxen started his post by saying that we are doing well. But when I heard the rest, it didn't sound like that. Since the Workers' Party took over the Government, the revenues of municipalities have increased considerably. The working party has also made extensive changes to the systems so that the detailed management of the municipalities decreases. The income system for municipalities has changed, so that we get a much better and more even distribution among all the municipalities in the country. - All this in just one year and three months! So to the time of the representative of Enoxsen in the government as a municipal minister, and he admitted right now that they didn't do much for the municipal sector – yes, it has to stand out as a nightmare: never has the municipalities received so little attention as during the time of Enoxens in the ministry, and never has the debt to the municipalities increased as much as in the years of central government. In fact, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in their municipal image are now decorating to grant 250 million. kr more to the primary schools. But what is most striking now is that with the Centerpartiet safely out of the government offices – yes, close to the Stortinget – there is no limit to what the municipalities will get. What's even more eye-catching is that keeping together the strategy of the center parties has had a serious break. For example, in the municipal planning for next year: Christian People's Party only close to 500 million. kr more to the municipalities than the Workers' Party. But the Central Party's proposal of $4 billion at the top of the 3.5 billion that the Workers' Party has, plus $12 billion to debt, is probably a record of the Center Party. Can the representative, Mr Enoksen, give us an analysis of why the Christian People's Party and the Central Party are so completely different about the economic needs of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1275	What we now heard was a record that we have heard many times before, and that we will probably hear again quite many times. But unfortunately it won't be right if it's repeated on any occasion. As current municipal minister Sylvia Brustad writes in both the budget and the municipal bill: the reason for the large deficits in the municipal sector is the way we have chosen to finance the older reform. It is highlighted in every document written by the Minister of Local Affairs. The current municipal minister was not so keen to explain that while she was head of the municipal committee and was opposed. But just after she had taken the Municipal Council chair, she got a different view of the cause of the deficits. So it was actually after a financing arrangement that was adopted by more or less a unanimous increase, which leads to that in a tough four-year investment period, where municipalities are going to invest DKK 30 billion in the care of the elderly and get it financed over 30 years, the deficits necessarily have to be large. Then it is right and fine – both right and good – that the Workers' Party has followed up the work that was started on our part to reduce the detail management and designation of the municipality sector. I record that the scheme presented by the Workers' Party is exactly a copy of what was being worked on in the time of the central government and in my time as Minister of Municipal Affairs. But I also record that the same Workers' Party is quickly jumping off those proposals and going back to ringing as soon as one sees an opportunity to do so, as the Minister for Children and Family now signals in relation to kindergarten support, which is the largest proportion of earring for the municipal sector. Here, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs proposes to take all transfers to the kindergarten sector out of the framework transfers to the municipalities and to follow the users of the kindergartens, which is a policy that has so far been left alone by the Right and the Progress Party. Secondly, the Labour Party has a persistent tendency to use different comparative bases to tell about the growth of the local economy. It has been clarified many times before, but it does not seem that the Workers' Party is able to innovate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1286	In the last year, the battle cause of the Center Party has been increased taxes and taxes. Together with the Workers' Party, this has unfortunately been passed on in Stortinget. It ended for the current year with the largest tax increases in the human age. This is necessary, of course, because the central party is not willing to convert the public sector, not willing to launch competition, not willing to close the county, not willing to introduce VAT compensation rules which make the private sector competitive in relation to the municipal sector. Last fall, double taxation of the center party's share dividends was the battle cause. At the same time, the Government presented a proposal of 10 pst. increase in housing tax. It was not satisfied with the Senterpartiet, which is why negotiations with the Government increased the housing tax from 10 p.m. to 15 pst. Now this year, a lot of time has been spent explaining why you're actually for a lower house tax, but it's in the budget that you see what the party stands for. The electricity charge has been greatly increased, so that 60 pst. the current bill now enters the state cash register directly. Well, that's the Central Party's greeting. They also passed a cut in the back of the child. Of course, this has caused strong reactions in District Norway. And not least, the sharp increase in the air passenger charge has caused quite strong reactions. The point is that the air passenger charge is now completely without justification. When the full price ticket tour Trondheim–Oslo costs NOK 3 801 and Tromsø–Oslo turn-return NOK 5 826, it is not nice that people react. The centre party is not responding. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the representative, Mr Enoxsen: does the representative think that the air passenger charge, which he has provided, has now become too high? If, against assumption, he thought it was too high, even though he himself is responsible, would he vote in favour of halving the air passenger fee, as proposed by the Right and Advance Party, to reach out a hand to District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1299	It is a completely incorrect representation by the representative Børge Brende of what has happened in relation to tax policy. In fact, the centre parties – with the Centre Party – have been given a binding decision to change the law on a case that Right has had as one of its battle cases for many years, but not clear to get an impact – to remove the investment tax, which amounts to NOK 6.5 billion for Norwegian business. We have been given a majority to eliminate the wealth tax on working capital or on industrial wealth, a proposal that the Right has been opposed to so far, but which they have been supported in a price-effective way last year. Unfortunately, the government did not implement the scheme in such a way that it was possible to finally finalise it, but I assume that we have the opportunity to come back to it. We have removed the sharing model, and we have decided to remove it, a proposal that will mean that we can get a better tax model for active and long-term owners. We have also submitted, and actually adopted, a proposal that would mean that nine out of ten housing owners would drop house taxes, and that would give NOK 3.7 billion in taxes. So when, for once, the Right has the ability to create a majority for a tax bill that would be labeled in the wallet of most people, they vote against the same tax bill. So the air passenger fee. There are two issues that have been particularly crucial for the strong increase we have seen in flight prices. One is the intervention of the EEA Agreement in relation to a national charging policy, which the Right in 1992 and in the future has repeatedly said should not happen, but which we now see happening in the area by area. This means that we have had to introduce equal charges on routes where, nationally, we want to pursue an active district policy, but where the EEA Agreement prevents it. The second is actually the liberalisation of aviation, for which the Right has been a driver, not the passenger charge. It has been shown that 60-70 pst. the increase in flight prices comes as a consequence of the liberalisation and increase in flight prices, and not due to increased charges. And if we reduce the passenger fee by the amounts that the representative Burnde is now talking about, it will be noticed most of all on the shortest sections, at least on the long distances. I am therefore of the opinion that we should do something, we should go another way, among other things. increase state aid to the short-distance network, so that we can reduce prices especially on the routes that are now the hardest loaded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1308	When I heard Mr. Enoxsen's comments, I wondered if we were really discussing the revised national budget, because he used a lot of words to tell what the Central Party wanted to do with the local economy, and how important it was to bet on children and young people, but unfortunately, as he said, they had not received a majority for this. If you look at the setting, you're going to think it's not the same thing. It is possible that Mr. The Enox now mixes with the municipal proposition for next year, but there is nothing in this document, either from the Central Party or the other central parties, that is to improve the public economy. But what's quite striking is that if the Central Party and the other central parties wanted it, it would have been possible on important points to have a majority in favour of strengthening the public economy. Let me take the county from which I come, South Tribe Team, where the centre party has the county rapporteur, Arnt Frøseth. He's been down here -- he's probably here today as well -- and told me how bad it is in the county municipality. Yesterday, we had a visit to Trom County, and almost all the county municipalities in the country have been here. And there's actually a majority with a center for strengthening the economy of regional hospitals, the Center Party and the other center parties would have been interested in it. But you haven't mentioned it in a word. General increases to municipalities or county municipalities are not mentioned in a single location, but then, as if about 25 kroner in discretionary grants to outsourced schools is something, while the bet as other parties try to make on children and young people, on kindergartens – yes, it is what it wants in the public economy, so the centre parties, including the Centre Party, have not been at all involved. That's why it's pretty striking that you're doing billions, billions more than ever, but it's for next year. The current situation of Norwegian municipalities, county councils and regional hospitals is dramatic. It's described as dramatic, and it's actually dramatic. This means that it should be possible to get through the rest of this year in a fairly responsible way, so that patients will receive the treatment they are going to be entitled to, the Storting must grant extra money. That we have not done so is solely due to the Center Party and the other central parties, because for once the Right Party, the Advance Party and the SV actually agreed. Then we just lacked the center, but they dropped us in the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1317	The representative, Djupedal, now says, is directly wrong. Firstly, an increased framework for the municipal sector totaling 300 million has been proposed by the centre parties. kr. So there's an increase in the framework just to strengthen the possibilities of maintaining municipal services, to be able to keep down babysitting prices, to ensure that we have good school-time arrangements and good schools, and to have good care for the elderly. We have done so in recognition that the financial framework adopted in the budget last autumn is not sufficient, not as good as the Workers' Party produced it at the time. Because we have a stream of rapporteurs telling us about the need for cuts in municipal services because of the lack of economy. Unfortunately, there is no majority for such increased allocation to the local government sector. So what I said in my post is no mix-up with the community proposition. On the other hand, it is a pity that it was not possible to have a majority in favour of a completely necessary strengthening of the local government's economy for the current year. Secondly, in the context of the case under investigation in the Stortingen yesterday, on settlement in connection with the state acquisition of hospitals, the Central Party suggested that no county councils should have to reduce the activity of their hospitals in the current year and that it should be fully compensated for in connection with the acquisition of hospitals. We did that to make sure that the county councils in the last six months they run the hospitals don't have to reduce offers, be forced to resign personnel, and have to go into a difficult situation, as we see many have done. Unfortunately, it was not possible to have a majority for that proposal yesterday either, and so we have promoted it again today, as proposal No. 121. I hope that there is a better fate today, and that a majority here at Stortinget is able to see the consequences of the county councils and municipalities being actually underfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1324	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1327	I'm sorry to have to say that, but what Enoch said now is unfortunately not right. There is not one penny for the county council in the central arrangement of the position we are dealing with today. If you try to give the impression of something else, it's just wrong. You have to obviously mix up what settings we have for treatment from the Center Party. There would have been a majority of center if you wanted to. What I think is the most striking thing about the debate we have today is that an important area of Norwegian economy is not at all debated, and that is the oil economy. What has happened during this six-month period, from the adoption of the State budget until now, is that the rate of investment in the North Sea is actually increasing. So after the budget we're now dealing with, the state is going to invest a total of $4 billion more in the North Sea than it was scheduled for last autumn. These investments are not yet bound by contracts, but it says something about the fact that the activity is now on its way up. This piece is totally deprived of political treatment, although the activity in the North Sea is, of course, also affecting the mainland economy – even if it is not counted as such. These 4 billion kroner for increased activity in the North Sea could have been used in another way to fix things that we think are important. And what SV does then is that we spend part of this money investing in the mainland economy – in what the majority of people think is important – instead of investing them in the black oil economy in the North Sea, just to get to the conversion of the Norwegian society that everyone says is necessary. Because if we continue to leave this part of the economy to the market alone, it means that there will be fewer resources to invest in what we think is important, namely children, young people, education and research – all that the Storting spends a lot of time saying we can't afford to bet on. We want to show that there is a room for action in the economy, namely by spending more money on kindergartens, on research, on education and in schools. And this is the room for action if you want political governance of the oil economy again. However, what is striking is that the whole of this large part of the Norwegian economy — which has a major impact on the Norwegian economy — is not really going to be involved. At the very back of the government budget, there is suddenly a table on the floor, and what expenditure is expected to be incurred. But DIE is the people's money. It is part of the investments to be made by the Storting. We want to turn the flow of investment away from the North Sea and into what's going to build the knowledge economy of the future – because nobody really thinks we're going to live off the oil in the future. We need to build a knowledge industry in Norway that makes us get more legs to stand on. And this is one of the most important grips it actually is possible to do, and a grip I'd think most people in principle agree with -- it wouldn't have been such that you'd have made an artificial distinction between what's the North Sea and what's the mainland. On the other hand, oil is also important in today's situation, which is what we use these oil revenues on. SV has through a Document No. 8-proposals documented that we invest parts of the oil wealth in companies that we actually would never have taken in with the fire brigade, we would have known that we did. A company in Singapore invests in land mines. We've documented that. And at the latest this week, it is documented that we are heavy within two companies operating systematic forced labour in Burma, even though Norwegian governments have said since Jagland that all private Norwegian investors should preferably stay away from Burma in order not to provide support for the military dictatorship. At the same time, the state can, for example, without moral infections. enter Unocal or TotalFinaEllf, where there has been evidence of widespread violations of human rights and widespread use of forced labour in the country with which we do not wish to trade. These are just two examples of a whole series of examples in which the oil fund is actually used systematically to support companies that undermine everything Norway stands for in foreign policy. We have today made proposals that we should have ethical guidelines for the oil fund. Unfortunately, we have not fully achieved our goals, as some still imagine that this will mean a loss of return on oil wealth, and not least that it is technically impossible – and nothing can be more misleading. Both parts are wrong. There is every reason to believe that this will over time generate greater returns, but it is not least important that more and more large pension funds around the world now have guidelines to avoid these problematic enterprises. In Norway, KLP has started, and Storebrand has had it for a long time. In Sweden there are many such funds, and in the United States – the stronghold of capitalism – now has 13 pst. of all the major pension funds different types of device. It is also interesting to see that many of the major Norwegian capital managers now go out and support SV and say that we need this to avoid this type of ethical conflict. Our challenge is – unfortunately – that we do not fully achieve our goals in this round. The central parties have met us a while, but I have to say that it is striking to note that a social democratic party from which the Norwegian government is founded does not want to go in and say that of course you should not invest in landmine production. Instead, you create a subtle system that says that if there is a awake journalist or a wake-up representative who discovers that we are inside something we should not be inside, then we should have the opportunity to withdraw. This is going to be wrong. I finally want to address the suggestions in the setting that SV is either alone about or where we are the largest fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1348	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1353	It is not difficult to agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that investment in what is important is essential. The question just becomes what's important. The representative listed a lot of things that the Christian People's Party will immediately join. But I would like to turn around a little bit on the question: what is it that the setting shows as irrelevant for SV? It's obvious it's about the police. According to the Government, experience with the scholarship scheme for police officers, to get them out of the districts and to get positions occupied by the county offices is good, and that the grant scheme is important in order to achieve this. The party to Djupedal says no to this. In addition, figures have also been provided to show that there are insufficient resources to ensure jobs for the increased number of students at the Police College when the last large coal is being graduated in spring. Here you can agree or disagree in the way you calculate, but all the lots except SV realize that there is a deficiency in the appropriations. SV says that there is no need for funds to get these into work. Does this mean that having a visible police force and having people at the county offices is an immaterial task for SV, yes, an unimportant matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1361	I would like to thank you for a good line, because it gives me the opportunity to say that, of course, through the revision, we have done as many other parties: we give priority to what we think is most important. If we are going to address the police and justice policy, the situation is that in recent years no individual action has received more funding than the police and county councillors' seat. Every year we have granted more money from Stortinget, and that has been necessary. The fact that we are now going to grant more, or for that matter provide a guarantee that police college students will be guaranteed work when they come out, I think it's a rather strange way to think about it, not because there can't be any need for these police students in the police and county seats, but there are no other students in Norway who have the guarantee of a job when you go into a study. This applies to anyone who wants to study for whatever it may be, the lawyer, the preschool teacher, the economist, you can mention any profession in society. All youths go into a study with some sort of uncertainty about what's on the other side. If you're going to say that the police and the county council and their college are so important that everyone who goes there is going to be a guaranteed job, so I like it for me, but I don't think it's necessarily a right priority. There are a lot of people who can probably also go through a study and not be guaranteed to use that education, as you want. We have been involved in an increase in the appropriations for the police and officers' seats over the years. And we'll do that if it turns out it's necessary. But I have to say that if we compare e.g.. with the kindergarten sector and the education sector, we want to spend the money there, instead of in the police and county seats. This is an honest and tidy choice from SV's side. We've told children and young people first. We want to move investment from the oil economy to the knowledge industry, to what can create new growth and progress in Norway. That's SV's priority. That means that in this setting there are many proposals that we actually have sympathy for, and could also have voted in favour, but which we do not vote for, simply because SV does this important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1370	I can only say that I am a little upset when the representative Djupedal from SV says that the oil fund is being used systematically to support companies like, among other things. violates human rights. I asked for those claims to be withdrawn from SV. One thing that ethical rules for the use of money in the Petroleum Fund have been debated a lot, and I am sure that the effort SV has made to simply get a debate on it has been good. But we all deserve to have a thorough debate on this. It has been invested by the oil fund on an economic basis. There have not been very many other considerations. Now there's a shift in that strategy, and I think SV should be satisfied with that. There are problems in finding ethical, objective guidelines for investing money from the oil fund. It is difficult to find it, and therefore the majority have opted for the use of an extractive mechanism. It is the case that as far as I know, everyone in Norway is interested in not investing money in companies, companies, which produce mines, and I think that the representative from SV should be wise not to doubt that. What I'm a little concerned about is that we're following developments in this area closely in the future. We thank everyone for the job that SV has done with this matter, but let it be that we do not spread inaccuracies about what this is. We disagree on the methods of how we're going to do it, but all of the parties are going to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1381	It's pretty interesting to notice that what you get on Wall Street is not going to happen in Norway. It is quite interesting to note that many of the people who manage the country's money are the ones who are most active in saying that this is not possible, while many private people who manage funds say that this is fully possible. Why do they do that? Well, they do, of course, because they see that over time it's a heavy burden to be inside that type of company, which obviously doesn't make good profit, and which is ethically problematic. What the majority of people are doing now is setting up an extraction mechanism on the basis that we have documented that our money is invested in a company in Singapore that produces landmines. If it really is that a awake journalist, politician, or something else proves explicitly that this company we have invested money in, and they produce this, we can at worst pull ourselves out, but instead we could have been ahead of it, being preventative and making sure that we would never be near these types of businesses. It's the ethical guidelines. That's what CLP, Storebrand and the pension funds in the United States are doing, because it's both business and ethics at the same time, and this is wise. What we're doing about the oil fund is we're spreading money across a number of companies. We have no idea where this money is invested. We have managed to document where part of the cash flow goes. Most recently, it has been documented that it has been invested in Unocal and TotalFinaElf in Burma. These companies have systematically broken human rights in Burma for many, many years. We have documented the same with Singapore Technologies Engineering, which produces landmines, which are prohibited under the Land Mines Convention. But we have no guarantee that there are no other producers of landmines, or that it is invested in other companies elsewhere in the world who systematically use forced labour, systematically use child labour, systematically violates the ILO Convention, as the two Burmese who were in Norway this week have documented to the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget. This is the ethical dilemma. That means that we systematically invest money in many companies that have a clean conscience, while many of them we don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1390	I noticed that in his reply to Enoxen, the representative Djupedal gave praise to the Right as opposed to the centre parties. Then it is nice to be able to give praise back. For SV it deserves, not least in terms of understanding the daily lives of families with young children and the need for a better childcare policy. I am pleased that SV and Right today agree on additional appropriations for the children's gardens of 270 million, respectively. SEK and 240 million. kr – as opposed to the Labour Party, which would like to be best for children, but which instead gets the best on words and not on action. The right and the left realize that kindergartens are essential for the everyday life of families with children and that prices must therefore be reduced. As long as at least as many children go in private as in public kindergartens, the Court’s proposal for State aid to each nursery place will offer lower prices to all. The Council of State has now said that, in the absence of results, the Labour Party is considering supporting the Right Model. My question is therefore: can SV in the future, because the SV's proposal on the maximum price is down, consider supporting the Right Model, so that child care prices go down for everyone, both in private and public kindergartens? In this case, it will give the SV the opportunity to ensure people's everyday lives in action in another area, where the Workers' Party is currently very careful with words.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1397	Let me thank the representative Krohn Devold for a nice reply. It's quite right that if the center parties were with us in this setting of kindergartens, we would have managed to reduce the nursery rates more. The bluff that the Government has presented to the Storting is a redispatch of money that we have already granted to kindergartens. Unfortunately, fewer kindergartens were built last year, only 1,900, while the target was 8 000. This operating grant thus moved the Government smoothly – and it is wise, of course – to operating grants in general, and said that this is our great investment in kindergartens. But these are money that Stortinget had already granted to this sector, and I think it's quite striking to notice that one later on as if this was a new investment. Had the Centre or the Workers' Party been together with the Right, the Advance Party and the SV, we might have had a majority in favour of this, and the Right should definitely have seen how important this sector is. So ask Krohn Devold if we want to be on the model that Right now has proposed. It is true that our primary model is this: we want maximum ceilings for nursery rates. This means that it should not be possible for a municipality to have a higher rate of tax. We have said that we want to beat the Swedes. I guess they have, as far as I remember right on the go, $1140 or $1240 as the maximum price from 1 January next year. The SV's explicit objective is that this rich oil country should use some of its wealth to provide cheaper kindergartens. We see, of course, the point that many of this money that we have given to the municipalities does not go to what we thought. I now register with great disappointment that many of the municipalities, who now get these 240 million. kr at lower nursery prices, which are in the budget, already indicate that this should not go at a lower rate. This means that the proposal that has been launched by the Right is something that we will seriously consider if the municipalities do not get together and make sure that the prices go down. The main challenge now lies with municipalities and municipal politicians, that they actually follow up these explicit decisions taken by the Stortinget. If they don't, we have to look, together with other parties, at how to make sure that this happens, because of course this money is going to benefit the parents. That's an explicit assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1408	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1411	In the revised national budget, the Left and Centre again took responsibility and provided important re-priorities and improvements to the Government's proposals, while maintaining the balance with the adopted budget. The left and centre have secured a majority for a number of improvements. There will be increased allocations to key areas of the Left, such as research and higher education, reinforced police intervention, road safety, culture and well-being. Better conditions are ensured for voluntary Norway and for smaller enterprises than those provided for by the Labour Party Government. That's a majority of 100 million. more for research at universities, such as: goes to several new scholarship positions. The research and innovation fund is allocated DKK 2.5 billion. It is also very gratifying that there is a majority of the Hervik Committee's proposals on tax deductions for enhanced research efforts in industry. Private schools are strengthened by 25 million. kr. Among other things, the operation is ensured at United World College. The police'll have nearly 30 million. The aim is to secure new positions for the police high school students, as well as to step up efforts to combat organised crime. Racial protection appropriations are increased by 70 million. kr, which will contribute to increased road safety. Training institutions receive 25 million. kr and the Rikshospitalet 30 mill. kr. In addition, more funding is provided for different cultural and cultural memory projects. The 42 000 enterprises included in the VAT reform from 1 July, which the Government would have to pay for an investment levy for nine months until the complete levy was abolished in 2002, are now exempt from the investment levy. This is a relief for these companies of around 100 million. kr. In addition, all costs will avoid businesses when they do not interfere with a complex regulatory framework which in any case will be removed only nine months later. I dare remember that this was one of the main things for the Left in the fight just before Christmas. Furthermore, the left and centre parties ensure that voluntary organisations are fully compensated for the increased costs resulting from the VAT reform. This also means full compensation for increased expenditure in the second half of 2001. Otherwise, budgetary treatment is characterised by the government's inability to deal with VAT reform in an unbureaucratic manner. The regulations are the government's job, and it has been the Ministry of Finance's responsibility to set simple and reasonable limits. The left and centre parties have always demanded clear, logical and, above all, liberal restraints. The mess we are now seeing with the Ministry of Finance's proposal for the practice of VAT reform is solely the responsibility of the Government, not the Stortinges. The left is satisfied that the exemptions for VAT on travel, sport and culture are now in place, but the left believes that this should exempt all travel, sports and cultural activities. The left assumes that the Government will ensure that this is followed up in the preparation of the regulations. The left has always been in favour of exempting all medical treatment from VAT, whether it be school medicine or alternative medicine. The Ministry of Finance argued that only acupuncture and homeopathy should be excluded in addition to school medicine. This is both illogical and unfair in relation to all the other serious alternatives. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, on the other hand, included in its recommendation that the vast majority of alternative medicines should be exempted from VAT. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health thought that the border had to be set in such a way that follow-up would be as simple as possible. This is fully in line with the simplification project ‘Simplifying Norway’ of the Left and Centre Government, which is now stopping under the Workers’ Party. The Ministry of Finance has chosen to ignore the advice of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Following the Committee’s treatment, the health area has improved somewhat, including several alternative medicine practitioners, as proposed by the Aarbakke Committee and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The left assumes that the Ministry of Finance is now following up the comments of the Storting, so that the serious players in alternative medicine are also exempted from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1441	The president wants to ask if Terje Johansen had any suggestions he should take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1444	Yes, I take up the Left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1449	The representative of Terje Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1454	I note that the representative, Terje Johansen, would like to take credit for what he calls the improvements that were made when the budget was discussed, and also now in the revised budget. It also applies to the improvements found jointly by the Workers' Party and the Centre. The representative Johansen knows so much that there were many things here that had to fall into place after the budgetary conciliation when it came to the VAT reform, which we have jointly found solutions to. My question is whether the representative Johansen, in the same way that he wants to take the honor, will also take responsibility. The background is that when the Labour Party presented its draft budget, there were some clear objectives that we had drawn up, among others. strengthening public welfare. At a time when we are totally dependent on doing so within a responsible financial framework in order to avoid cost increases and interest increases and not to exacerbate the competitive situation for business, it was a challenge, and it also made it necessary for us to put forward some measures to curb the pressure in the private sector, among others. the short-term cost, which has now fallen off, and then this came with the short-term cost of building in, which after a short time also fell away. Everyone thinks about how the Left characterized the Workers' Party's proposal then. It was almost like a disaster to count for, the bet we had on public welfare. In the budgetary agreement we also agreed on the principle of VAT reform. VAT should be increased by 1 pst. It would be half food tax, and then we would have a general service tax, except in some areas. I register, late in the evening post dated 8 June, that Johansen is now trying to distance himself from a part of what he was with and took responsibility for. He says: “I fear that what we get at last is not what we agreed on.” My challenge is: What is it in the VAT reform that is across the principles that were agreed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1471	What I fear about the VAT reform is that what we have discussed with the Labour Party is going to be something different than what we seem to have agreed on. This applies, for example: the limitations on culture, e.g.: What about the agency and Impressario activities, which the Left absolutely believes should be excluded as well, and, in the case of medicine, everything that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it turned out later, would have been proposed to be exempt from VAT? That's what I'm afraid of. But let me just say when it comes to taking credit for things: it's one thing left and alone takes the credit for, and that's the removal of the investment fee. What many people here in Stortinget have talked about and worked for is the Left who has made it clear in cooperation with the Workers' Party, and that cooperation consisted of drawing the Workers' Party. Eselbeina is still shown as a track in the floor around, where we drew them and demanded that this be something they were on, before we went in and negotiated at all. That's what we called the cover charge, or the entrance ticket, at Plaza. And that entry ticket cost the Labour Party 18.5 billion kroner in relation to the budget they provided – this budget, which was a threat to women's jobs and district jobs, by putting VAT on travel life and adding the employer's fee 1.5 pst. All of this was removed, including the investment fee. And we're actually proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1478	President! It's an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1483	It is not possible to clarify misunderstandings in which you are not even involved. The next speaker is Per Kristian Monsen, sorry, Per Erik Monsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1488	I've been called a little bit of every day and I just get to accept it. What I don't accept is the point where the left takes credit for something that is actually the result of a Document No. 8 proposals submitted by Siv Jensen from the Progress Party. We're at the end of a magnification period, and the left has profiled itself in two areas in particular. It might be interesting to hear the representative Johansen's view of the result after four years where the Left has actually had a big group and even been in government. The first question concerns the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the Left has wanted to be a spokesperson. From my point of view, the Left has made very little positive for these, rather on the contrary, both in terms of its own proposals, and in terms of supporting good proposals from others. Is the left satisfied with the result after these last four years where the left has had, at least if you're going to believe the polls by day, a historic opportunity to do something? The second question concerns environmental taxes, which have also been a focus for the Left. In today’s newspaper, the very environmental guru in Norway, Bellonas Frederic Hauge, says, ‘The CO2 tax is meaningless and ineffective’, and ‘the environmental taxes give me a bad feeling of stomach, because they do not work as they are intended’. What does the Left think of such a crushing judgment over one of his children's hearts?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1499	I thought that the Progress Party, with its relatively large group, had now actually learned that there are a majority who are going to rule Norway. In fact, the left has been involved in obtaining a majority of cases that have, in fact, also been promoted by the Progress Party, but for which they have never been able to make an impact. We've managed to get a majority, among other things. in order to eliminate the investment levy. It happened after heavy battalions, which have been mentioned in the media, but once the Progress Party has made the same proposals, there has only been fanning with flags from the sideline. And that is where the Progress Party stands in Norwegian policy. They're on the sidelines, and they're actually doing nothing special, while the Left, with its six representatives, has been in government, as the representative rightly points out, and we've achieved a lot. For small businesses, we have actually done a difficult job, for example. The split model. In our agreement with the Workers' Party, it is now explicitly stated that the sharing model should be removed. The left has actually helped create a basis for that. We have had a majority in favour of this, together with the Workers' Party, which is one of the most violent opponents of such measures. There are several elements of this same budgetary agreement that speak for the benefit of small businesses, and let me mention the last thing we have managed to achieve, and then, in fact, together with the Progress Party, that the Hervik Committee's proposal on tax deductions for research and development expenditure for enterprises is now to be implemented. We've managed to get a majority for that, and we're proud of that. And we're going to keep working for small businesses even in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1506	I am not going to sign up for the discussion that is currently going on between the Progress Party and the Left. I actually want to take advantage of the opportunity to pay tribute to the Left because the budget agreement made it possible to remove the investment fee on 1 April next year. But I also think the representative Terje Johansen in his post should pay some attention to the fact that it is a good thing that it will not be removed until 1 April next year, and that the removal has not been covered. Thus, a decision has been taken in Stortinget that the investment fee should be abolished, and that costs SEK 6.5 billion on an annual basis, on which the representative Johansen was involved, but it can well be replaced by other tax increases if you go into partnership with the Workers' Party. That is why it is important to provide a broad-based civil alternative, which can actually implement the removal of the investment tax and do something about the sharing model without taxation in other areas. The leader of the left has been inside – and he sits around here in relation to Mr. Johansen – that the tax and tax conversion must be non-profit-making, that we should not provide tax relief by simply changing the system. To remove the investment tax, NOK 6.5 billion, and in addition to doing something about the sharing model and making working capital exempt from property taxes, this quickly becomes a bill of DKK 12 to 15 billion. Is it so that the Left can now imagine giving this in the form of real relief, or is it such that one should take it back in other tax increases? And in that case, what other tax increases are left in mind? Is it e.g. to increase the electricity charge so that even more than 60 pst. of what you pay in electricity bill, are you going to be entitled to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1513	Let me first say when it comes to the Hervik committee, that it was actually the Left that reduced the sample, and made what is now coming into being become a reality, both by reducing the sample and by providing a majority of proposals from it. There are actually many cuts in the joy of the Left. That's not all we've done as we really wanted, but that's something to which the Right now should also become friends, because if they're going to join and form government in the next period, they'll soon notice that standing on the sideline is something other than sitting and finding compromises for which a majority is to be created in the Biggest. We can reassure the Right on one point: we think that enough is enough on the tax side, and we can imagine being involved in lubricating a tax reform, as it is recorded in the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Centre, with tax relief. How far we're going to go is left to see when we get an overview of the economy. We do not intend to propose increasing any of the taxes that we now think are high enough. In fact, we in the Left believe that the green taxes and charges, mentioned earlier, have been partly a betrayal of the voters and citizens. The assumption, as left stated when we launched the concept of ‘green’ taxes and taxes almost ten years ago, was that the revenue we collected from this should go to the reduction of taxes on employee income and, if necessary, to the reduction of the employer’s tax. We haven't been able to get a majority for that, and we're sorry, but we're looking forward to doing something about it in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1524	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1527	The government committed the revised national budget to maintain the arrangements for the budget for the current year adopted by the Stortinget before Christmas. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Finance Committee is proposing to follow the Government's recommendation. We thus avoid increasing the pressure on the Norwegian economy from budgetary policy. Activity in the economy is high, although growth has slowed in the last two years. In May, consumer prices increased by 4.3 pst. from the same month last year. However, corrected for the evolution of taxes and electricity and petrol prices, the price growth has remained relatively stable to date this year, with a 12-month growth of about 23⁄4 p.m. Some factors move in the direction that the price increase will decrease marked in months to come: The half-way between 1 July will contribute to lower food prices. The taxes on petrol and diesel will go down by 40 cents from 1 July. At the same time, electricity prices are expected to increase in the second half of this year less than at the same time last year, thus helping to reduce the 12-month growth in consumer prices. At the same time, there is considerable uncertainty about international developments. Developments in Europe have been weaker than foreseen in the revised national budget, mainly because the slowdown in the United States has spread more to European economies than expected. VAT is one of the leading sources of funding for our common well-being. Norway is today the only country in the Western world other than the United States with no general VAT on services. VAT reform brings our VAT system more into line with what our main trading partners have had for a number of years, and it ensures the future financing of the welfare society. At the same time, reform is a relief for most people. The most people will notice on July 1st is that food prices are reduced by about 10 pst, and the fuel and diesel taxes are going down by 40 cents. The treatment of the VAT reform by large last harvest led to the adoption of a number of derogations. The Ministry of Finance has therefore had to make substantial limitations to several exceptions. I have not found it right to lay down the final regulations and give our interpretation opinions until the Financial Committee gave its position on the revised budget, and the Stortinget adopted the final legislative decisions late yesterday. The Ministry of Finance has today defined all remaining regulations and interpretative opinions. These include: two new regulations providing for a clear simplification and improvement of the legislation of operators. The first concerns a new regulation on the purchase of services from abroad, which prevents distortions of competition between domestic services and services provided by non-resident service providers for use in Norway. The other relates to a new regulation which provides for general access to voluntary registration for lessors renting constructions and facilities for taxable activities. This implies an equal treatment between the operation of taxable activities in owned and rented premises. A decision has also been taken on the relaxation of the obligation to calculate VAT on the withdrawal of services. This applies to the participation of lawyers in the law-enforcement watch where the services are provided free of charge, and to the withdrawal from taxable persons to non-taxable activities in the same company. Health services are exempt from the charge obligation in Norway, as elsewhere in the EEA territory. As in Sweden, the exemption is limited to alternative medicine. After an overall assessment, homoeopathies and acupuncture will also be covered by the exemption. We have also argued that other alternative treatments carried out by officially authorised or authorised health professionals should be exempted in accordance with the suspension of the financial committee. Following the review of the consultation opinions, we have further concluded that all cosmetic operations carried out by doctors should be exempted. Such an exception is also practised in our neighbouring countries. The Ministry of Finance has today issued a comprehensive interpretation opinion on the exemption for financial services. I have placed great emphasis on limiting this exemption as in our neighbouring country, and I refer in particular to the agreement between the Danish Ministry of Taxation and the data centre of savings banks in Denmark. We have also followed up the comment of the Financial Committee that similar financial services performed in the management of unit trusts and investment companies are treated in the same way. We have taken the view that even where the purchase and sale are decided by the investment company itself, the services of a management company will be free of charge when significant parts of the follow-up work is carried out within the management company. Extensive exemptions have also been adopted in the field of travel. Passenger transport, overnight accommodation and the provision of such services are becoming known except after 1 July. Passenger transport by aircraft will receive a zero rate in the VAT system from 1 July. That means a fee reduction of 300 million. kr. After yesterday’s law decisions on guidance, most of the tourism sector will be excluded. The Ministry of Finance has also today laid down the regulation on half-nutrition of food. Food at all stages is subject to the reduced rate. As in other countries, the lower food tax requires a delimitation against serving services. We have chosen to give a thorough and detailed interpretation to limit this to the best possible extent and to ensure the best predictability for the traders affected. Let me also stress that the charging authorities also have a guidance function. From the start, I would like to suggest that guidance and prevention of errors are given to a large extent, rather than pure controls. I have registered more or less serious attempts to ridicule the limitations that must be made in both services and food. As I said, we have mainly followed the boundaries that our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark have reached after practising VAT on services for a number of years, and where Sweden has also had lower VAT on food for a number of years. However, Norway appears to benefit from more exemptions than neighbouring countries, for example. VAT on overnight stays in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Several exceptions give rise to several difficult limitations. However, difficult demarcations have also existed in the past in the VAT system. It was for a long time a separate sample consisting of, among other things, storage representatives who assessed whether a printed paper product was a book without VAT, or a sheet with full VAT. Donald Duck in the paper form had full VAT, while Donald Duck in the bound form was exempt from VAT. The new VAT reform removes some of these difficult limitations. It's e.g. developed a distinction between standardised and specialised computer software. Standard products have been considered as a taxable product, while the specialist has been a duty-free service. But what about all the different software compositions that exist in today's market and the possibilities for digital transmission over the Internet? All of this is treated equally after the reform. Not to talk about different interpretations. More than 30 years have passed since the applicable VAT legislation was adopted, but difficult issues still need to be resolved by the tax authorities, the ministry and the courts. We cannot therefore expect that all the difficult balances will be settled today. And some difficulties continue according to the expressed wish of the Storting. If a hotel acquires a chair and puts it in the restaurant, it will be deductible. If it is placed in the prescription, it is a partial right of deduction. And if it's put in the hotel room, it's not deductible, because overnight stays are exempt from VAT. This wanted the government to do something about it. Of course, compared to lower VAT on food, there are simpler boundaries, for example. for the Right and SV, which are against lower VAT on food, than for us who are to reduce the food price from 1 July by close to 10 pst. Policy is also to make right decisions, even though it is easier to stand on the sideline and shout. When the leaks from the Storvik committee became known in the media, Per-Kristian Foss was the most positive. In the evening post on 6 April 1990, Foss stated that he did not reject the principle of VAT on services, but that taxpayers had to get the money back in other areas. either in the form of a reduced tax, or in the case of reduced VAT on, for example: food as at present. Prior to the 1997 election, Right President Jan Petersen sent out a press release demanding that the other parties tell the voters what they thought about VAT on services, before the election. ‘The question of VAT on services has been under assessment for seven years and the response options are limited mainly to yes or no’, said Petersen. The examination of the national budget in the autumn of 1999 showed that the Right was generally for VAT on services. And when the reform was discussed in Stortinget last autumn, Right Kjellaug Nakkim said in the debate in Odelstinget: ‘Right-wing support for this approach. We believe that such a system captures the development of new goods and services in society." And then the Right Reform proposed post-election postponement. I'm glad that a majority of the Stortinget actually implements what they think is right. I am pleased that consumers are thus reduced VAT on food. Although one has had some difficult borders, the reform of VAT provides a broader tax base and modernisation of the VAT system. I am pleased that we have now clarified the prerequisites for the introduction of the general VAT obligation from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1606	It was a bit tempting to have a line that went on the VAT reform, but at least I'm glad the Minister of Finance reminded us of what some people have said before about this reform. I want to ask the Minister of Finance about another thing that I think is far more difficult ethically. It is based on ethical guidelines for the use of the Petroleum Fund. As the Minister of Finance knows, there is a proposal, proposal No. 2, in the setting of Document No. The 8-proposal from Øystein Djupedal, where one expresses about the same thing as a plural here on the Stortinget has said yes before, i.e.: ‘The Government asks the Government to take international initiatives for the further development of tools for the establishment of ethical guidelines on human rights and the environment, including: through cooperation with organisations and investor forums...’;» I'm not going to repeat everything there. However, the point is that when the Storting manages the human rights action plan, the central government, in addition to some other measures, proposed a renewed assessment of the relevance of human rights vis-à-vis the Petroleum Fund. This was to be done when one had gained practical experience with the management of the environmental fund. In the meantime, Norway would be driving internationally to develop tools and tools for caring for such concerns. So this whole thing has joined up with this whole thing. And this is then an obligation for the Government to follow up. How to follow up the Government when no single proposal can be adopted. 2 in the option, which comes from the center part and SV? There are many difficult problem settings. We have landmine issues, as the Minister of Finance knows well, we have the Sudan conflict, where on the one hand we shall try to create peace, and on the other hand we may be indirectly involved in supporting war, and we have Burma – which is also mentioned. The Christian People's Party does not say that here in the Stortinget we should start to decide which company and which country, but we should have guidelines that the Ministry of Finance and Government can handle. And what does the Government do to follow up on what the Great Government has decided, and which the Labour Party has also supported?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1621	I find reason to recall that neither the government of Bondevik proposed to the Stortinget ethical guidelines that go as far as the representative here draws up his question. On the part of the Labour Party Government, we are concerned that ethical considerations are also given priority to the management of the Petroleum Fund. It is important to stress that the fund is placed in a country and in the company of Norway has extensive trade with, and that it is subject to the general guidelines for foreign policy as is the case for economic relations with the outside world. From the Government's side and from the Norwegian side, we will actively follow the international development and experience gained through various forms of ethical guidance. We have also seen some of the examples that have been drawn up recently, for example. on a potential producer of anti-personnel landmines in Singapore, which shows that investment in individual companies confronts us with a particularly difficult, legal, ethical and political dilemma. If e.g. The Petroleum Fund is now invested in a company producing anti-personnel landmines, it cannot be excluded that the State is violating the Mining Convention. This is also the starting point for the Government to take the initiative to amend the regulation for the management of the State Petroleum Fund in such a way that it is possible that, in very special situations, individual companies may be excluded by means of an extraction mechanism. I think it is important to say that emphasising ethical considerations in the management of the Petroleum Fund, as the Government proposes, could also have a certain attitude-building effect and be a positive contribution to the international dialogue on these issues. My answer, therefore, is that we will both follow up on what we have outlined in the revised budget, and we will take an active part in the international dialogue, as I understand that the representative is asking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1634	After hearing the Minister of Finance make every effort to talk about the VAT reform, I understand that it will be the big issue for the Workers' Party in the election campaign. I look forward to that, and maybe some voters with me too. The finance minister was so kind to hit a quote from me. It's a very good quote. And if the Minister of Finance came along with me in my post, I said the exact same thing myself. What we are against is the principle of turning the mirror, that everything should be subject to VAT, if not explicitly exempted. We do not exclude that we can take the area and subject it to VAT, but the government has not done so, and we were not satisfied with what was available. The fact that it is proposed to be suspended after the elections is a quote from the Minister of Finance that no place can be covered. I want to make it clear that when the Minister of Finance is going to talk about other parties in his speeches, he should stick to the truth. Then a direct, correct quote is an advantage. I stand here with a note that I have received from a number of pressmen, who are said to be distributed from the Ministry of Finance, where the following is reproduced: ‘At our national meeting the party adopted’ — I add that it is Right — ‘that the Norwegian level of taxation should be reduced to EU level’. That's an incorrect quote. I ask the Ministry of Finance to find out the quotation in the Right Programme on page 52, where it says: ‘Right will therefore lower the fees towards a Nordic and European level.’ There's something else -- if you can read it inside. I think it is nice that the Workers' Party, the Government and the Ministry of Finance now spend a lot of time on the Right, but it would have been an advantage that the debate took place on a clean-haired basis, so that we quoted correctly. Finally, I would like to ask what the Government believes. That could be a point too. Even the Workers' Party shall have influence in the opposition after the election. My two questions are as follows: What will the Workers' Party do with the level of taxation? Should it be downwards in relation to EU level, should it remain unchanged in relation to EU level, or should it be upwards in relation to EU level?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1659	I would like to be allowed to correct two obvious errors in the representative Foss' line. One is that Foss indicates that the Right has never spoken about turning the mirror. The representative, Mr Nakkim, gave a very detailed opinion on this in the debate on 30 November last year. The representative said: «The law is based on a reversal of current legislation, so that, in principle, all goods and services shall be subject to VAT unless an explicit exemption is granted. This approach is supported by the right.’» Furthermore, the representative Foss expresses that it is wrong to point out that the Right has gone in for a relief of NOK 40 billion, and that quotes from it have been taken out of the loose air. Now it has been shown for some time that there may be a somewhat different view between the Right-Leader and the Right-Parliamentary Vice-President. I have to be allowed to refer to two quotations from the Right Leader, first on the Evening Post online May 6th, 2001, where the representative Petersen says: «The ultimate price tag is SEK 40 billion if Norwegian taxes and taxes are to be reduced at EU level. This must happen over time.’» And the equivalent is said in a series of A-press newspapers, among other things. in Sarpsborg Workerblads nettavis, also 6 May: ‘40 billion in tax laws must be brought closer to EU level.’ But that's not the most interesting thing. The most interesting thing is that there was a new interview with the representative Børge Burnde in the Economic Report a few days ago, where the representative Burnde relates to the tax and tax share of mainland Norway, not Norway including the socket, as the representative Petersen has done. And here he makes it clear that this objective means that taxes and charges need to be reduced by NOK 78 billion, or almost twice as much as the party leader has been talking about since the beginning of May. The representative Brende confirms the new objective in an interview with Dagbladet on 15 June. There, Brende also denies that the party has ever numerically fixed the goal, and claims that the figure is NOK 40 billion from the Workers' Party. But he describes what development it must be. There is pure chaos about what is Right's view of future tax developments. The representative Petersen says one thing, Foss says something else, and Burned the last. It would be useful to get it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1688	President! I beg the floor to clarify a misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1693	Misunderstandings can be clarified to the extent that they are relevant to the further debate. On this issue, the President will consider it to be useful for the further debate. Foss has the word to clear up a misunderstanding. Jan Petersen, on the other hand, does not participate in this line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1700	My question was only as follows: Can the Minister of Finance correctly reproduce the Right Programme? In the note distributed by the Ministry of Finance, from which the Council of State reads, the Right Programme is quoted as being wrong. Will the Council of State confirm or cancel it? I also remind you – for the debate – that I asked what the Council of State itself meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1707	That you don't answer questions is something that is still repeating itself in this house, so it can't possibly be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1710	I found reason to spend my time clarifying the misunderstandings that Foss' representative has created. I have never stated that I have quoted the Right Program. On the other hand, I have quoted the Right Leader, and there is reason to believe that the Right Leader expresses what is Right Policy. But what is the situation in this context is that the Right Leader expresses one view, the representative Foss for another and the representative Burne for a third. What does the Right mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1719	Then the president believes that this will last for a later occasion. It is not possible to clarify such questions in a line change where the representative Petersen is not involved. This may be the subject of further discussions later in the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1722	I have two questions for the Minister of Finance, and both apply to the extent that he made the contribution. Initially, the Minister of Finance spoke about his concern about price growth. It's not so interesting just to hear that the Minister of Finance is worried about the price increase, but it's interesting how he's going to bring it down. In the past, the Minister of Finance has indicated that increased taxes in themselves contribute to increased price increases. What, then, is the Minister of Finance's prescription to bring down the price rise, if it's not to reduce taxes, which some of us actually claim will be a good way to bring down the price rise? The next issue is related to VAT reform. It has been argued for a long time that it is necessary to extend the VAT compensation for municipalities and county councils to all services, so that municipalities can assess on a free and real basis whether to purchase services from outside or produce them themselves. The Workers' Party has so far been very reluctant to convert the compensation system, while the Workers' Party is signaling a strong desire and a strong need to modernise the public sector, so that the money is spent in the most efficient way possible. This means, if it is the case that municipalities are not allowed full compensation, that it will be more expensive for municipalities to buy certain services from outside; they will end up having to produce them themselves. Is that how the Labour Party government wants to modernise the public sector? Or will the Workers' Party at some point in the future also come to the recognition that there is a need for an extension of this compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1731	First, the question of VAT compensation. It is right, as the representative Jensen says, that the government has not proposed an extension of it. I note that the majority of the Stortinges have had the same assessment. With regard to the issue of charges and the effect on price increases, a reduction in some charges, in isolation, will reduce price levels and temporarily reduce price growth. However, a charge change will not affect the price increase corrected for the fee directly, i.e. the price increase which is the central measure, inter alia: From the point of view of monetary policy. On the other hand, a significant reduction in charges, as the representative Jensen traditionally advocates, can have the opposite effect on the so-called underlying price increase. A tax reduction could lead to an increase in the demand pressure in the economy, and in a situation where there is a high level of activity and labour shortage, it can help to strengthen the underlying price and cost growth. Then the representative Jensen raises questions about what is the central factor in bringing the price increase down. In the short term, I refer to what I said in my post related to fees, that the development of the consumer price index over the year is expected to deviate significantly from the picture we have seen in the first half of the year, simply because of the fact that reduced VAT on food in the second half of the year, reduced taxes on petrol and diesel, and expectations of a lower rate of growth in electricity prices will result in a lower price increase than we have seen in the first half of the year. But the most important question is, of course, that we are able to establish a budgetary policy that does not increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy. That is the starting point for the proposal submitted by the Government to the Stortinget in the revised budget. That is why I am very pleased that the Storting has joined the financial arrangement through the treatment here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1743	You might say a lot about the Minister of Finance, but one thing he needs, and that is that he meets well prepared – considering a previous line change here today. A few days ago, the Stortinget decided to take over the hospitals by means of an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. That the arrangement of which there was agreement, more like confiscation of county property than negotiations between equivalent parties, may be. I'll leave that in this round. The majority believe that most of it is getting a lot better when the state takes care of the hospitals. The center party is against state hospitalization. But despite that, we are also concerned that we should get the best possible health care even after the state has taken over. It is therefore worrying that in the last few days we have received many and alarming reports of a sharp decrease in the activity of several hospitals around the whole country – information that was not known at the time the financial committee started examining the revised national budget and which is not mentioned in the budget either. Several counties are discussing hospitalization. In fact, a few months before the state takes over hospitals, it is discussed to shut down local hospitals or to terminate offers and thus also to cancel staff – professional staff who will be required to have them even after the state has taken over the hospitals. In view of the fact that the proposal of the Central Party from the treatment of the municipal bill yesterday on full compensation for deficits was voted down, the Centre Party does indeed see the need to support the Right's proposal to grant 250 million. to the regional hospitals, simply to avoid that we are now at risk of the county councils not fully covering the deficit accumulated in the current year, and to avoid that the county councils will have to reduce the activity a few months before the state takeover. Will the Minister of Finance contribute to the Workers' Party's Group, so that there will be a majority in favour of the proposal that the Central Party has made today, so that the deficit can be covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1754	First, with regard to the economy of the local government sector, the Government and the Labour Party have placed great emphasis on strengthening the transfer to the local government sector in order to enable the local government sector to carry out the important tasks to be carried out by the local government sector. As a result, the municipal economic proposition, which has been dealt with here in Stortinget during these days, has made it possible to achieve a relatively strong growth in the local economy from 2001 to 2002. Of course, the government will continue to follow developments in the local government economy, including the type of issues addressed by the representative. As regards the question of the state acquisition of the hospitals, I refer to the treatment that the Storting has just carried out, and the assessment of a reasonable financial settlement. When the representative asks if I find it reasonable to support the proposal promoted by the Central Party, I would like to give a general warning against proposals of the type blank cheque with a view to meeting future challenges. I believe that, in general, we will be able to carry out analyses of the situation and, if necessary, take action if necessary, and not provide general guarantees without having a – to say – detailed understanding of what they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1765	It was interesting to note that the Council of State spent all its time explaining the VAT reform. I must say with all due respect that it is not difficult to ridicule this VAT reform. It is striking to note how poorly investigated such an important reform has been, when the same day as the Greatness dissolves before the summer, presents the last delimitations and says that it is now in order. I've basically just been waiting for the Council of State to make a comprehensive statement on "bamsemoms" as well. It did not come, but it will probably come a separate circular on the «bamsemomsen» later. But leave it. Let me take what I really chose to record. The Ministry of Finance has accepted the establishment of an extractive mechanism for companies that obviously violate international agreements or Norwegian law since today’s Storting has discussed landmine production in Singapore and ethical guidelines. There's a little step on the way to something that maybe over time can become ethical guidelines. I assume that the reason why this is being proposed is that the documentation SV has put on the table about this landmine producer in Singapore in which the oil fund has invested has become too embarrassing. But that means that only afterwards, after things have been documented, you have to have the opportunity to stand out. So you never have to lie in front of it and say that this was an enterprise that we obviously shouldn't. This will be an increasing problem, and many ethical funds around the world, pension funds in the United States and Norwegian funds, see this and now try to be in the forefront. But let me be quite specific to the Minister of Finance. This week, two Burmese people have been to Norway following an invitation from the Church's Emergency Aid and LO. They document extensive use of forced labour in Burma, a country in which the Norwegian Government does not want private investors to enter. In two companies, Unocal and TotalFinaElf, we have invested almost NOK 1.4 billion. The evidence of widespread and systematic violations of human rights is overwhelming. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that this extractive mechanism also applies to these two companies, where there is evidence of a major breach of international agreements and Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1776	Let me first say in relation to the question of VAT and VAT on services – and I kept saying ‘bamsemums’ – that I have given the Stortinget a fairly broad explanation of the limitations that have been made today in relation to regulations and administrative opinions. I have done that because I have realized that there is an interest in Stortingen for the matter and its follow-up. That is why I have found it reasonable to clarify how we have followed up the Storting's comments and the intentions expressed here. At the same time, it is important for me to show that I have registered that there is some criticism that the regulations have not been laid down in the past – also in the media from big business representatives, most recently from the representative Foss in the Nettavisen. I guess it could have been perceived as inappropriate by the Stortinge if the regulation had been laid down before the Stortinge had made its legislative decisions, as they did yesterday, and even before the decision of the Finance Committee was taken in a case where the Ministry knew that the Finance Committee had had many hearings that were also linked to the regulatory work, and that it was reasonable to wait before we drew our conclusions. Therefore, such a detailed explanation, in which, in my opinion, I follow up on the intentions expressed by the majority of the population. With regard to the issue of investment in Burma, the representative showed, inter alia: to TotalFinaElf. I must be allowed to remind you that TotalFinaElf is a large operator on a Norwegian base. This illustrates a problem that the Government has described, among other things. in the revised national budget, that different parts of Norwegian policy must necessarily also be linked. And the natural question in relation to the representative's approach would be: If you believe that it is not reasonable to have an investment of a smaller item in the Petroleum Fund, is it so that you believe that it is not reasonable for this operator to have the opportunity to act on a Norwegian base? I have not recorded that this view has been expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1788	The fact that the Government has not followed up last year’s decision on framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers, which is repeated in blue copies in today’s position, is not only unintelligible arrogant, it is directly irresponsible. Without seafarers, it is not possible to operate a ship. Today we have approx. 18,000 Norwegian seafarers. Every year in the next few years, 1,700 of these people are going to lose their pensions, and the growth was calculated in winter for 450 officers, 350 of whom are from maritime colleges. But of a total yearly coal of 371 apprentice-approved school students, there is a per cent. date 127 without apprenticeship space, because there are no longer enough vessels within the reimbursement scheme. This means that the possibility of getting 350 officers out of the annual coal has been reduced to approx. 200, because someone never goes on education. So this year we get 1,700 in retirement and an increase of 300 in total. Both bow loaders, ferry companies and cable-laying vessels have apprentices on board. The bending loads have a potential for 50 apprentices, today they have 16. Cable vessels will not be able to continue on apprentices without reimbursement support. The proposals I am asking for support do not relate to the needs of shipping companies, to the trust of seafarers and to Norway's need for Norwegian seafarers' competence. There is currently a significant dehulling at both ends of the age scale. No change can be made, but the graduates are about to leave the profession in a large number while they are still young enough to be able to make good progress in other professions. The trend is clear, there are relatively few college officers on board and developments are accelerating. Well-trained young people will not take the chance of getting on board until they are thrown ashore, and they experience the debate on framework conditions as degrading. They will be respected, and they will not experience what their predecessors experienced, and which they are warned of by older colleagues, that the Nordics who are going ashore are being replaced by foreigners, and that the Norwegian professional community on board is being confused. This is the development that is coming, and it will come horribly quickly if the Storting does not take responsibility. We can lose our maritime competence in less than ten years. But long before it disappears our ability to maintain Norwegian education. Without Norwegian seafarers on board to take care of practical training, it is not useful to have a school offer ashore. The system collapses due to lack of professionals, with the fatal ring-effects it has throughout the nutrition cluster. This is not due to the lack of interest in the profession, due to the degradation of the environment resulting from the 1998 Storting decision. The trust created by a costly recruitment campaign based on an agreement between organisations and the state cannot be regained if it is lost by today’s decision. Should we start to advertise in England, Denmark or Sweden to recruit Norwegian pilots? And where are we going to bring the necessary expertise to the entire administrative apparatus we need as a coastal nation? If we do not take responsibility for maintaining the rootstock of Norwegian seafarers that constitutes our core competence, it will not take long before Norwegian shipping companies with head office in Norway move out. One shall no longer go to London to find a good maritime environment of Norwegian origin. And the shipping nation of England pays what it costs to take care of its competence. It also does other European nations, just not Norway, because we're watering in money, so we can't afford it! Today’s decision gives decisive signals to all actors in the maritime sector, in particular to seafarers and their shipping companies. Now the individual parties are shown what they stand for, and did not come here and talk about the sacred budget balance, because this is about the estimates that can be covered by the enormous surplus of the year. The party or parties with government ambitions owe the Norwegian maritime environment a clear answer to what they can expect before the elections. At the same time, those lots which cannot support the proposals submitted give a clear indication that the cost of caring for Norwegian seafarers' competence will be used as a substitute for the negotiations between the parties during the autumn. Let it be crystal clear: such compromises do not affect the Coastal Party. In many ways the situation today is a lot more dramatic than it was when the maritime framework packages were adopted in the last period, because the trust we now lose, we won't be able to rebuild on the next 50 years. We are wiped out as a maritime nation if we do not take responsibility for our maritime competence. All the power in this room – well, with power follows responsibility, and I encourage the Storting to take responsibility for restoring the damage suffered by this industry in 1998. Restore the trust that Norwegian seafarers are waiting for! I hope to take up my suggestions, and hope that the Storting will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1809	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1812	At the end of the debate on the 2001 budget – the revision of it – I will state that the Christian People's Party has acted responsibly in shaping the economic policy for the current year. We have contributed for, among others: in this way, seeking to avoid new interest rate increases. We have influenced the design of the budget, first of all at the main consideration of it, but also at the audit, but of course we haven't got everything we wanted. The impact of the parties to the centre on the budgetary procedure last autumn led to the greatest change in the government's draft budget at the time, with a shift of approx. $20 billion. This was necessary, especially because the proposals of the Stoltenberg government were business and business hostile, and it was necessary to correct other biases, including. in order to improve the strengthening of health care, better working conditions for non-governmental organisations, for cultural life, for school and research purposes. We will now have a reform of the VAT system from 1 July. In fact, there is a broad consensus on the principle that services should be subject to the VAT system, even if sometimes they do not sound that way. But there is also another important reform that takes place at the same time, and there is halved VAT on food. It gives us cheaper food. And this had not come without the work and perseverance of the center parties. The working party was initially towards a halving of the food tax. Nevertheless, the Minister of Agriculture obviously insisted that he himself should face a media campaign in connection with getting a lower food tax, before he then withdrew from this. This is the last day of the Storting for a four-year period. I therefore think there is also reason to say something in this connection. This ageing period has been politically unusually interesting, and much has changed along the way. The ageing period began with the voluntary surrender of the Governmentary Power by the Workers' Party. The center option, which just a short time before was called stillbirth, took over. The two-part division in Norwegian policy was broken. The center proved not only willing to control, but also manageable. We kept track of the Norwegian economy, also in economic turbulent times. We were part of a new political agenda, focusing on issues of value, on family policies, on environmental policies, on rural policies and at the bottom of it all lay the defence of the welfare society and solidarity nationally and internationally. We started stepping up resources for the school, especially in the field of ICT and improving the working situation of teachers. A further strengthening of the school, an interior as well as an external upgrading of the school, must be one of the first things a new government is addressing. A new government is a strong desire for in the Norwegian people. A lot of people want a shift. It will also be the Christian People's Party. We have such good experience with center cooperation that we also go to the choice of that option. Actually, the center is the only declared option for the Workers' Party. Someone is now trying again to declare this option dead. I think maybe it's wise to be a little bit careful. Some of the people who do it have burned on it before. The Labour Party is hammering the right forces these days, and in political terms, the Right Party and the Advance Party. One thing is that in this way – I think – they have contributed to Right Growth. When people want a shift, and the Workers' Party points to the Right, of course, a lot of people go right there, so there's rice at their own back. But something else is that this confrontation also largely gives a misleading picture of what is really happening in politics. On a case-by-case basis – not in small cases, but in large cases – the Workers' Party has, in the last year, merged with the so-called right forces – the Right and/or Advance Party. I could deliver a long list in that way. I should just like to mention a few examples of this: the state ownership of hospitals, large parts of the municipal economic proposition, the study funding model, that the Workers' Party and the Right opposed the proposal of the Christian People's Party for a new action plan to re-train health professionals in their profession, in terms of police reform, power balance, petroleum-free zones, the EU Food Make-up Directive, the gas power case, the shooting field case, the IT Fornebu case, etc. This shows that we no longer have a clear division of Norwegian policies. We have more political focus. And although the centre is currently relatively weak in numerical terms – but in fact not so much combined as at the entrance to the election campaign in 1997, if anyone thinks back – we are politically a more dangerous opponent of the Workers' Party than the so-called right forces, because the Centre has shown that we can rule, and we can rule steadily, and we have shown that we stand for a socially responsible policy, with which the Workers' Party cannot with any credibility fright. Then they'd rather frighten with the right parts. Jens Stoltenberg, now Prime Minister, the time when the parliamentary leader, declared the central government to be outstandingly weak. Now, at the end of this process, we see how the Labour Party government has suffered a series of significant political defeats. His characteristics strike back like a powerful boomerang. The Labour Party suffered a severe budgetary defeat: in connection with the tax on food, in connection with the tax on housing, in connection with the national transport plan, in connection with the auctioning principle for farming concessions, in the private school issue, in relation to the state investment company, in several environmental policy issues, in several church policy issues, in several cultural policy issues – in order to mention something. The list can be made longer and more concrete, if someone wants it. Stoltenberg's characteristic of the central government is reversing and should pain his own party and government at the entrance of the summer and an impending election struggle. As for the upcoming election, I guess the only thing that's certain is that the outcome is uncertain. But I think we can certainly get a big one for the harvest that will again require great willingness for flexibility from responsible political parties to find solutions. No clear majority option stands out. Before that time, we're going to have a campaign. Some people today say that it will be largely just about taxes and taxes. I think those who say that in June may be wrong. There will obviously be an important theme, and also because there are distortions in the tax system that should be corrected. For example, we should raise the entry point for the top tax, we should eliminate the benefit tax on housing, we should be relieved of lower and medium incomes and not least eliminate the investment tax on business. But if the election campaign is to be a race to promise as much as possible in different areas and maximum tax relief, we are making a serious mistake. We overshadow, among other things. Major challenges we face in the health sector, in the care of the elderly, in school, family and environmental policies — to mention some key issues. A race for tax relief between political parties is becoming pointless, and there is reason to warn all of us against it. Finally, the Christian People's Party will give priority to the forthcoming election campaign, is the family policy in defence of cash support, the need for child care development, increased papiermission, an environmental policy focusing on measures to reduce climate emissions and greater efforts on public transport, and there is a school policy focusing on both internal and external upgrading, improvement of school facilities and educational resources, and a strong dissemination of value and a professional quality improvement – and in the middle of this, do not forget that we still have major unsolved health and care tasks, where we need to follow up the adopted escalation plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1841	It is true, of course, as Mr Bondevik says, that the Right Party, the Labour Party and also the Progress Party have cooperated on something during this process of enlargement. But using it to say that there is a pattern in Norwegian politics becomes just as sure as when Aukrust, based on objective facts, calculated that the army at Stiklestad was only 30 cm high. The budget we are revising today is a budget that has been identified as a cooperation project between the Government and the central parties. In very many of the heavy economic issues, for example: on tax issues, opinions which are more similar to those of workers’ party viewpoints than those of the right are constantly held in the middle parties. I understand that Bondevik is very concerned about highlighting the center option. But as a government option after the election we get to the autumn, it's going to become less and less likely. On the other hand, it is also later that Bondevik does not at least refuse to join government constellations with others, if the centre alternative is not to keep up. Yes, according to some newspaper headlines, even the election of President of the Stortinge is premature – if you believe in the newsmagazines. And then I ask, if this is an option from Bondevik's side, I think the voters should probably know it before the election. And then one should also ask whether the centre is willing to participate in the tax measures and in the economic whole that the right parties stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1850	Tom Thoresen said that yes, the Workers' Party has well cooperated on something with the right parties. No, not at all. I mentioned some examples, and I can actually mention more on big, important issues. It's not a little rust, but it's a big deal. I think it's okay in itself, but it's not okay when the Workers' Party is trying to create a great distance from the same parties. They frighten them as a threat to the welfare state, and then they lean to exactly the same parties in several issues of importance to the welfare state. This isn't related, and that's what we have to reveal. It's not that it's cooperation that's wrong in itself; it's got to be a big deal where you don't have clear majority configurations. But then you should not give the impression of anything else, and that is what I am accusing the Workers' Party of doing. As far as the budget is concerned, the Christian People's Party and the Centre parties have shown responsibility. But the reason we could take responsibility for this budget was that the proposals of the Labour Party government were severely recalibrated. It has never been such a big change in the history of Great Britain. It was only that we could take responsibility for it. As far as taxes and taxes are concerned, we have said that we want some corrections and improvements: away from the house tax, raise the point of entry for the top tax so that it does not affect normal income, relief at the bottom and the removal of the investment tax. But we don't want to be in a further race beyond this about as many tax cuts as possible in many ten-billion-dollar classes. We have said this clearly about the responsibility we take – and I do not think it is feasible either. That the centre option is becoming increasingly less likely – I think Mr. Thoresen shall think a little about it before he declares it dead; it has others done before. Overall, we're not really much weaker than we were in 1997, even though at the moment, two parties are struggling hard. We have not negotiated a President in relation to other alternatives, I can assure you, Mr President. Thoresen on. We have made no plans other than the centre option, and therefore we do not discuss the premise or the design of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1864	I will promise that the Progress Party will not participate in any race for tax reductions. We're going to believe the exact same thing that we've meant in the last few years. We are predictable in this area. I also registered that the representative Bondevik would rather bet on health, and here comes the first last. In politics, words are important, but they do not get a full answer until they are converted into action. At least the Progress Party knows that. Unfortunately, it seems that the Christian People's Party believes that words lead to increased patient treatment. Although words are also important to the Advancement Party, we do not believe that they will help in this case. The Progress Party proposes a sharp increase in appropriations to deal with several of the 280 000 who are in line and are waiting for treatment. In other words, the party of progress converts words into action. It doesn't do the Christian People's Party, and it does even if they know about the problems. I would like to quote from the comments to the centre parties in the setting in the section on County Health Services: ‘In the case of the additional needs of the other somatic hospitals for the current year, the Minister of Health indicates that it is not his responsibility but is the sole responsibility of the counties. These members’ – i.e. the centre – ‘will stress that this is not the case that the Minister for Health, in connection with the Revised National Budget, should be interested in ensuring the full functioning of hospitals, by increasing the appropriations allocated to the counties...’ The party of progress proposed exactly what the Christian People's Party says in words, but the Christian People's Party does not convert its words into action. If the Christian People's Party meant what they wrote, they would have voted in favour of the proposal of the Advance Party on extra appropriations that would have removed the queue of sick people – a queue that the State has promised to remove. In addition, the Advance Party wishes to provide the counties with funds so that they can cover their share of the proceeds of the purchase of new equipment. Here the Christian People's Party does nothing either. My question to Mr Bondevik's representative is: why won't the Christian People's Party do what they say about increasing patient appropriations? And why don't they want to be part of giving more money to the condoms at the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1882	It is not true that the Christian People's Party is not involved in measures and budget proposals that mean increased patient treatment. In fact, there is an increase in that area from budget to budget. In fact, the Progress Party sometimes goes a long way, because they have suggestions for discovery that, in our discretion, socially and otherwise, are totally unacceptable, and that we cannot be involved in, whether it affects people living in the districts, who run in the primary industries, or it affects people out in the poor world. These are unsocial cuttings that the Christian People's Party will not be involved in. It is clear that it is easy for the Progress Party, when they are not in a responsible budget majority, to wave a series of isolated good proposals. However, a responsible budgetary partner may not act in this way. I would also like to remind the representative of Kenneth Svendsen that it was the central government and a government council from the Christian People's Party that put forward three stepping-up plans for the health sector to improve the situation – increase patient treatment and cut the queues – in the three areas that are perhaps the most neglected. It's about psychiatry, it's about cancer care, and it's about getting more and more modern equipment for our hospitals. This is going from word to action. And with regard to the situation in the current year, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal presented by the representative of Enoxen today: ‘The size assumes that no county municipality will be forced to reduce the activity of its county hospitals in the second half of 2001 due to the tight economy. Any deficit made up in 2001 based on the usual hospital activity shall be covered in the hospital settlement between the State and the county municipalities.» This shows that we are also willing to take action to keep our hospitals harmless in connection with the activity of the current year and the transition from county to state ownership. The Christian People's Party stands for action to improve the situation in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1896	The representative of Thoresen asked questions related to the ongoing debate on how the election of the President of the Grand Duchy could possibly be included as an element of possible future government scandals. The representative, Mr. Bondevik, then showed that he was not involved in such discussions now, and that was probably not the question from Thoresen either. At the Christian People's Party national meeting in 1997, the then Prime Minister's candidate Bondevik said that it was not appropriate for the Christian People's Party to enter into any kind of cooperation that could contribute to the participation of the Progress Party in Norwegian politics. This I am aware of is freely reproduced, but on the other hand, this was more pronounced that time, so I have a lot to go on. One of the things that is going to remain after the central government is that the Progress Party had real influence over Norwegian policy through the budget negotiations that took place in two rounds. But on the basis of the clear distance that the representative Mr Bondevik has previously served in relation to the Progress Party, I find it necessary to ask again: can there be any situation in which the representative Mr Bondevik can help to make the foremost representative of the party from which he has so clearly dissociated himself to the second representative of Norway, thus contributing to the election of this representative to the President of the Stortinge? Could there be any situation in which the Christian People’s Party will contribute to it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1905	I understand that the Workers' Party now wants to constitute the next big thing today. It actually doesn't intend to contribute to it at all. This was a theory I then launched in Dagbladet yesterday, as part of a possible government constellation that is not the Christian People's Party going to elections. We're going to make a choice with a central government regardless of current Gallups. That's what we're going to fight for. And then to start discussing premises for another option, I don't intend to go into it at all. We have not made such plans, and therefore do not want to discuss them. In the case of the Progress Party, Dag Terje Andersen said that it was probably a free representation of something I should have said earlier. Yeah, I think that was a very free version. What I have said about the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party is that we do not intend to enter into government cooperation or a fixed political constellation. But we intend to cooperate with all parties on the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. We have done so with the Progress Party in some matters and some budgets, and we have done so with the Labour Party in others. Sir. Day Terje Andersen cooperates with the Progress Party on a case-by-case basis. If it is to give the Progress Party political influence, he has been very active, even now at the end of this process. He has done it in the hospital reform, he has done it to a certain extent in the community economics proposition, he has done it in the model of study funding, he has done it in the reorganisation of social and health management, he has done it in questions of EU food make-up directives, he has done it in questions of petroleum-free zones, and he has done it, not least, in questions about IT Fornebu, which we come back to in this debate, where the cooperation between the Labour Party and the Progress Party has been very unfortunate and led to the most cumbersome results so far. He's done it in the shooting field case in the East. Day Terje Andersen has given the Progress Party tremendous influence in a number of big things. He should go a little bit more cautiously compared to other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1914	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1917	The revision of the State budget for the current year is limited to minor adjustments to the scheme adopted last year. The establishment of the budget, on which the Labour Party and the Centre Parties were united at the time of the adoption of the budget, shall be maintained. This means that we still have a government budget that has the main objective of work for everyone, fair distribution, further development of the welfare community – it remains firm. And we have an economic structure that provides the basis for continued stable economic development for the country and secure jobs. It's responsible policy. The main priorities of the State budget are determined. We get a better health care system, among other things. by increasing the appropriations by NOK 2.6 billion. Together with the increase in the free income of the local government sector in the budget of the year, the health sector has increased this year by more than DKK 3 billion. This is in addition to the efforts of the Government now being implemented for better organisation and patient treatment — in line with the legislative decisions taken last week in this Chamber. The need for better organisation and governance is reaffirmed when we now receive enquiries about crisis in the economy in several regional hospitals. The size will not be able to handle this until we separate. But we have to assume that the Government is following this development and, if necessary, taking action. The health sector is and becomes special. Hardly any sector is as important to people's everyday lives as the health sector. Hardly any public services consume as much resources as our hospitals. Of a government budget of about 500 billion DKK, about 40 billion goes to the hospital sector. The errors and deficiencies that emerge through patient cows, through widely varying offers around the country and lack of responsibility, must be taken seriously. I believe that of all the important reforms adopted by the Stortinget this spring, the health reform will be the most important – not for the state as owner, but for the patients. In the current year, commitments will be made for the construction of 5,800 new nursing homes and homes. All indications indicate that we will achieve the age plan target of 12,000 new annual works and 24400 new or improved nursing homes by the end of this year. So the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Government earlier this year, has decided to extend the plan's framework by a further 5,000 units. Here we must also be able to assume that the Government is following developments closely in the allocation of commitments between the current year and next year, so that planned developments can be implemented in a rational way. Yesterday, the Stortinget also took decisions to support such flexibility in the final phase of this important ageing effort. The working party is adding up to a historical bet on kindergartens. We're going to have multiple kindergartens, and the parental payment is going to be significantly reduced. In 2001, 6 000 new kindergartens were built. Reduced parental pay can only be made by taking greater responsibility for the costs. Therefore, the Stortinget today, on a proposal from the Government, will allocate 240 million. kr for reduced parental payment from the second half of this year. The next year, this is increased to NOK 1 billion in line with the municipal scheme adopted here in Stortinget yesterday. Then the cost of parents is reduced by approximately NOK 4000 per year. years. It will be of great importance to many families with children. But this is just the beginning. During the upcoming ageing period, the kindergarten sector will be allocated a total of approximately DKK 5 billion. The needs of kindergartens shall be met and the parental payment halved – down to 20 pst. of the costs. This will be a significant boost for families with children, and will undoubtedly be the babysitting of the times. We're at the end of a magnification period and in front of a big shot. Opinion polls have long shown that the political situation has changed. The political parties on the right have made clear progress. On this basis, the choice for the harvest will be a government choice. The alternative to the Labour Party government will be a government where the Right is the largest. It seems equally clear that they must have the support of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in order to achieve their government ambitions. On the other hand, how the Christian People's Party should be involved and pay for the tax relief of the Right is mildly unclear. Even after hearing Mr. Bondevik's announcement not to depreciate the centre option, I still believe that the centre option now stands out as very little realistic. The fact that the central parties do not believe in their own choice is confirmed by the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left now have a clear opening for government cooperation with the Right. After all, there is no need for much further comments when we see that the third co-operation partner in the centre, the centre party, is deeply sorry that the other two centre parties have just expressed such openings. Now we're more people who are struggling with the election break-up, but if we're going to judge by today's polls, the voters have lost faith in the center option. Yesterday, Stortinget dealt with the municipal proposal, with the corresponding financial framework for the municipal sector in 2002. The Christian People's Party clearly stressed the importance of keeping a responsible economic line, probably with possible government power in view, with only minor increases in relation to the government's arrangements. The centre party, on the other hand, has clearly given up all attempts to appear to be a responsible government party, with proposals for increases in the free revenues of DKK 4 billion and debts to the local government sector of NOK 12 billion. I said it yesterday, and I'm saying it today: that's undiscovered surrender policy! It's understandable enough to be right-leader for the time being. But as a paddler, I have learned that in heavy downwind, the risk of drifting is great. If today's statement about the Right Tax Lifts were to have a bad sense of reality – yes, then I think the Right has already been subject to significant drifting. Can't the Right in this debate really clarify whether the tax bill they're offering is 40 billion? Or is it maybe double? Today, Røres Børge Burne saw considerable doubt as to whether Jan Petersen's estimate of SEK 40 billion is Røre's own, or one he has received from the Workers' Party. I've always really thought that the Right could count, but now I'm in doubt. However, whether the tax rate is DKK 40 billion or closer to double, the voters must be informed of the consequences of such a policy before the elections. The right should tell the voters which common goods are to be cut down and removed. We know that the Right will cut the pay for those who get sick. We know that right-handed cuts in the district funds of industry and in the transfers to agriculture. We know that the Right takes billions from aid to some of the poorest countries in the world. But promises of the dimension that we are now talking about will require more -- yes, much, much more. Policy dividers have become clearer. The choice is between investing in our common resources, such as school, health care and kindergartens, on the one hand, and the Right Tax Lifts, which primarily benefit them with the highest incomes and wealth, on the other. There will be a clear starting point for the size selection for the harvest. So on September 10, there will be a choice between continued labor party government or a right-wing government with the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1958	Today we woke up to quite perceptive polls. I think it makes sense to stress that these are polls, and not a final election result. I'm pretty sure the parties that came badly out of these polls will do everything they can – that includes the center parties – to fix this. And from the center parts, we're really going to put all the cloths to do this. But what is the strategy of the Workers' Party? For the Workers' Party, today's measurement must appear as a shock measurement. 22.8 pst. is a clear indication that many of the Workers' Party's voters have lost faith in the party. What could be the reason for this? I don't think that's a single explanation. But I want to give some possible explanations: a lack of sensitivity to the concerns and protests that are taking place in the district, a short and good lack of credible district policy, not least in North Norway. A ambiguity, I'd say borderline to root, with regard to the implementation of the VAT reform, which has irritated people. And not least the follow-up to the agreement that the central parties entered into with the Workers' Party, which is fixed in the setting, but which should have been corrected already when the proposition was presented to Stortinget. An urge to over-regulate people's lives and everyday lives through detailed provisions of the political system rather than respecting people's choices and priorities themselves. And then the Workers' Party has taken on the simplification and continuation of the central government project «Simplify Norway», but it goes in the wrong direction according to the NHO and according to what can be seen from an anxiety-bitter attitude towards giving state companies a new ownership structure and necessary freedom of action. I will not advise the Workers' Party, but I would like to ask the Labour Party's parliamentary leader if she is familiar with any of these descriptions, which can explain the problems of the Workers' Party at the Gallup.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1967	With the dramatic fluctuations we have seen in the development of opinion for many parties in the last year, there has been no lack of good attempts to explain what is happening in political opinion. It is also permissible for the representative, Steensnæs, to register in that exercise. And I don't think election scientist Steensnæs – if that was the role he tried to get dressed – brought something very new and exciting on the track today. Because when it comes to explaining the evolution of opinion, most of the explanations have probably already been given. However, with regard to the explanation that the Steensnæs representative is trying to explain, that it is the weak rural policy of the Workers' Party that should be the reason for the failure of the electoral process, perhaps the Steensnæs representative would rather have to take a look at the development of other parties in the Gallup in addition to the Workers' Party. Because if it was the explanation, at least for me, it's a mystery that the district's voters go to the Right and the Advance Party, and that the Center Party, which is constantly claiming to be the district spokesmen and spokesmen, falls on the measurement. So that explanation is probably too simple. I have to say that it is really an incredible idea when the representative Steensnæs walks on this platform and talks about the implementation of the VAT reform, a reform that the central parties, together with the Labour Party, adopted before Christmas, a reform which was more complicated precisely because of the conditions that the central parties were giving priority to, and which was not least more complicated because the representatives of the central parties in the Stortinget had at all times new wishes on their list of what this reform was really going to be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1974	The meeting today started with Dag Terje Andersen from the Workers' Party claiming that we in Norway have a low level of taxes and charges, and then in the next breath to claim that we should move down to the EU level, it will cost many billions. The point is that in Norway we have a high level of taxation. The working party will maintain the high level of taxation. The right-hand side will simplify it. It's actually a prerequisite for us to keep growing in society. The representative of Solberg was very concerned with calculating skills. Then I actually ate my ears. The representative of Solberg was at Editorial Committee 21 last week and claimed that the tax relief of the Right would provide a person with income of NOK 300000 700 in tax relief. These figures have been calculated by the Statistical Central Bureau in the current year’s budget position. It turns out that he would receive a tax relief of NOK 1950 with a Right-wing scheme for 2001. If you have an average electricity and petrol consumption and you have a car, you would also save $1,200, a total of $3,160. My question to Solberg's representative is: How has the Workers' Party reached the figure of 700 kroner? After the change of line to the Minister of Finance, the President said that it is voluntary to answer the question, but I repeat, in fact, the question: How has the Workers' Party come to this conclusion? It has also been the case that the Workers' Party has difficulties in coping with the large tax increases that most people now notice, on the electricity bill, the housing tax and the annual tax on the car. And the last edition of this was the Minister of Finance in Sunday's edition of the Daily. There he said: «I react to the fact that the Right comes with an obvious bluff. The lot gives the impression that the government has increased taxes and taxes. We don't have that." My other question – which I also hope to be answered: Is it that taxes and charges are increased this year, or are they not increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e1990	It is well to go a little ugly with the truth to say that the Workers' Party spokespersons in this room have claimed that we have a low tax level. But what we have said, and which is also a significant basis for claiming, is that we have a tax level that is in line with our Nordic neighbours. The representative Foss has spent a considerable amount of time on this platform today to elaborate on it and to stress that yes, we have a tax level in line with Denmark, Finland has a slightly lower tax level, and we have a lower tax level than Sweden. But when we in the Workers' Party defend our position, so to speak, in relation to our Nordic neighbours, it's because we also want to defend the level of welfare we have, which is also in line with the rest of the Nordic countries, and which are actually also among the best in the world. If that's how the Right wants a welfare level corresponding to the average level in Europe, we actually don't share that desire. We will fight for the level of welfare we have. I'm actually in doubt if Right will. So back to the operations. Yes, it was an interesting calculation Burning wanted a closer answer to, and I'll explain: In fact, if you look at the pay range from 150 000 to 300000 kroner, which is a very common way of counting, the tax bill with the Right proposal is 700 kroner – that's the average number. If you do like the representative Foss and say explicitly that you make exactly 300000 kroner, it's 1 900 kroner. But to satisfy the Right's demand for precision, in all my future posts and debates, I'm going to start with those who make NOK 275 000, because then the Right's tax promise is only NOK 420. And then it's not even one day's sick leave taking away the tax promise, with only half a day's paycheck is gone!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2004	Private training institutions account for approx. 50 pst. of the rehabilitation currently provided in Norway to cancer patients, orthopaedic patients and to patients with cardiovascular disease, etc. They provide the same professional treatment as the public rehabilitation institutions, if they are not specialised institutions. And what should be more interesting in this kind of debate is that the training institutions give this rehabilitation for approx. half of the cost of a public institution. The economic situation of most of these rehabilitation institutions is today such that more likely to be required to cease operations at the end of that operational year. This applies, inter alia, to: some of the great and perhaps the professional best, namely Modum Bad and Nord-Norges Kurbad in Tromsø. In Tromsø, this will be a disaster for the rehabilitation spaces from next year, if nothing happens. The $25 million. kr entered by the majority in the revised version is, in fact, only a symbolic allocation. What you should have put in was a minimum of 100 million. kr, as the Party to Progress has done, and as sufficient and well documented that the need is necessary. Now it is that the private training institutions have never been the Heartchild of the Workers' Party, and my question to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg is this: Will the Workers' Party in the future change this attitude in relation to the private training institutions? And will the Workers' Party, in the autumn's treatment of the State budget, ensure that these institutions can maintain operations next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2013	I do not know where the representative Alvheim has it from the fact that the Workers' Party has a bad relationship with private training institutions. The vast majority of those we have are private, and very many of them exist today precisely because they have received support and follow-up from the Workers' Party, both in the government position and in the Stortinget. Then the representative Alvheim, as an experienced social politician, is also well aware that there have been many complex aspects of reimbursement rates and differing attitudes linked to these institutions, and that through treatment also in the Stortinge there have been many attempts to create a clearer and simpler system for it, without actually having come to any final, good solution. I will give Mr Alvheim the right to have a political challenge in moving forward in this area – he is quite right in that. So the Workers' Party, as Alvheim also pointed out, has added 25 million to this year's revision of the State budget. kr in order to avoid increased probabilities and to give these institutions a wider opportunity in the future. As far as their survival is concerned, I trust what our Minister of Health has said. He has visited several of these institutions. He has also stated that there is no danger to their existence, and then I also take it into account when we are going to lay the financial framework for a new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2026	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2029	After listening to the speakers of the Labour Party in this debate, it strikes me quite clearly that now the people deserve that the Stortinget takes vacation! The Labour Party has tried on two lines of argument on the Right Tax Policy. Point A: that does not mean more than NOK 420 for large income groups. Point B: Right-wing tax relief is so irresponsible and impossible to implement that it would endanger the welfare community. I assume that even Hill-Marta Solberg will understand that these two lines of argument are not feasible at the same time, and I would recommend that the Workers' Party selects the line of argument. Now I have to admit that I was one of those who exploded during the Minister of Finance's attempt to make out what Right means. But I also have to admit that I am not able to maintain an explosion over a long period of time, and have therefore come to the conclusion that there was not much to go for. I'll give you a reason for that later. The finance minister's instrument is the bass drum, and I have to say that the questions he is dealing with now require something more fine motorism than what he is obviously able to deal with. The point is simply that Per-Kristian Foss asked him two questions. One was about the department, when they're briefing the press, would be so kind to quote right correctly. They didn't. The right-hand decision is as follows: ‘For this reason, the Right considers that the overall level of taxation needs to be reduced towards the level of the EU countries.’ That's the quote. That's what I've been talking about and explaining to the press. I've given some indications of what that can mean in numbers. It obviously depends on what time we're talking about. This is a dynamic area. But it tells us which way we want to go, and what we want to go towards. I have said things both about the timing of implementation and other things that the Minister of Finance has probably noticed. That's why it's a rather remarkable attempt at interpretation you're making, and I would recommend that he stick to what we've actually adopted, and that I've been talking about. What is more important, however, is whether the Minister of Finance would be so kind as to deal with the point in the Per-Kristian Foss line: what is the Norwegian Government's policy? How does it view the relationship with the level of development in the EU? It is still away from Sweden, which is the great example of the Workers' Party. However, the point is that Sweden has made an assessment of what they want to do, and they are going the wrong way across Norway. They have accepted that it is not possible to be a fiscally different country. It is a problem that the Labour Party and the Minister of Finance are unable to deal with. I would recommend to the Minister of Finance that he start by focusing on that kind of thing. Then he will fall on some quite peculiar things, for example. that one of the things that are school examples of what is Right's cold society, that is, our sick pay reform, has been carried out in a double dose by Swedish social democrats. And when Swedish social democracy implements it, yes, it's a hot move. But when the Right does it half in Norway, it's cold. It just means that the Workers' Party has evolved into a reasoning they are not able to get out of. What is the reality, and what the Workers' Party is communicating, is the following: they simply have no intention of doing anything specifically about the level of taxation. And that's what people have come up with. Many say that today's problem with the Workers' Party is that they don't communicate with people, people don't understand what they mean. Well, the whole point is that people understand what the Workers' Party means. The working party is clear. The Labour Party is a high-tax party and people don't agree. That is the problem of the Workers' Party. Then a real mixture of numbers, scares, threats, will to misunderstand and, where appropriate, the counter-regressions that are out in Norwegian society is used. But people see differences. The parties that want to do something about the level of taxation will, despite the counter-reforcements, work to bring it down because Norway in a globalised world cannot be a fiscally different country. And so it's the working party that's more concerned with splitting hair than getting to the reality of what it's all about. – That's the difference. People have understood that, and that's what the Labour Party's problem is in today's society. It is quite peculiar that the Workers' Party does not dare to enter into this debate properly. It is also ludicrous about the Labour Party's approach to fiscal policy: tax relief? Oh, no, it's fali. So it's not imagination to figure out how to do things differently in Norway. The underlying, difficult things do not have the Workers' Party to grips with, and that's the background that this country now needs a new course to trigger the opportunities that lie in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2059	I fully understand that the representative Jan Petersen does not want to discuss all aspects of the Right Tax Lifts. But I can assure him that he will be allowed to do so in the weeks and months to come. I'm at least going to be a contributor in that way. Because if the picture was as simple as the representative Petersen is trying to make it, it was also a bit too one-sided. In fact, the tax vows from the Right are fundamental unsolidaristic. Because it's an indisputable truth and it's a quote from the Right Tax Table, which Per-Kristian Foss has today encouraged me to use – that if you make NOK 275 000, you get NOK 420 in tax bills from the Right. And why is it so fundamentally unsocial? Yes, because I also trust what Jan Petersen says when he says that we're going to spend a total of 40 billion kroner for tax havens! And then it goes without saying that it's completely different than people with revenues below 300,000 who are going to enjoy these goods. In fact, it's those who have the high incomes, who also stick off farms with large tax reliefs with the right scheme. That's why it's fundamentally unsolvable, and therefore it's right both to talk about the big volume that the Right offers in tax laws, and the fact that people with small incomes almost get nothing. And as I said instead, you earn 275 000, you get 420 kroner in tax bills. And then it lasts with half a sick day, and then you've lost the tax credit from the Right – half a sick day after the Right's order for sick pay. So this is fundamentally insolvent. It could have been interesting at least to clarify the following in this debate: Is it so that Jan Petersen acknowledges his statements in the press that the tax promise to the Right amounts to up to NOK 40 billion? Or is it like Børge Brende says in today's newspapers, that these are numbers that have come from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2072	This is getting worse and worse. I actually understood the introduction to Hill-Marta Solberg so that she linked this tax table to the 40 billion, and then she calculated that all other ordinary employees would get a difference of between 40 billion kroner and these allegedly 420 kroner times the number of taxpayers. With all possible respect, but I hope Hill-Marta Solberg didn't mean that. If she meant it, this has become totally hesitated – I find no better expression, President! I'd like to discuss it with Hill-Marta Solberg, but perhaps at another time and in other circumstances, for this she herself knows not to be bothered. However, if you leave these 40 billions and stick to today's tax relief, that is, to the budget of the year, which turns to other amounts, as she knows, she has forgotten, as far as I understand, some elements, for example. the full element of the levy, which means a great deal to people with low incomes. That is where the Labour Party is now bomming so sadly, because it is known that when the Workers' Party conducts this high-tax policy, it affects a lot of people with a rather weak tax capacity. That's what the Workers' Party ignores, and that's what they don't realize. When it comes to persevering the quotes, I'm not sure what she's after, but I just want to mention that I've spoken to so many newspapers that will listen to, about the sentence that I've mentioned, which I quote again: ‘For this reason, the Right considers that the overall Norwegian level of taxation needs to be reduced towards the level of the EU countries.’ That's what the Right Decision has, and that's what I've been talking about. I've also given an indication of what kind of numbers this should be about. I've been talking about that all along, neither more nor less than this. I believe that the Labour Party should see itself served by holding a debate on a real basis, which is, therefore, the Right Programme as adopted, and of which the Ministry of Finance would like a copy if they needed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2086	The President assumes that he does not need to remind Jan Petersen that the word 'doubt' is not a parliamentary expression, but does so for the sake of everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2089	Had the president had a better proposal, I would have accepted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2094	I would like to send a congratulations to Jan Petersen for the good Gallup figures. This gives you a good sense of self-esteem and is good to take with you. There's been a lot of talk about the differences between the games today. I would first like to stress that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have many common values, which are reflected not least in the Committee I work on – the Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee. We agreed on the cash support, which we know has meant a lot to many small children's families in Norway. But it's been a lot about taxes, taxes and other taxes, and taxes. I'm not going to go into challenge Petersen on what numbers are the correct ones for what is the Right objective in terms of tax credits – whether it's 20, 40 or 78 billion kroner. It's no matter how faint numbers, which I think most people really have little relationship to when it comes to the problem. What's my point, and I want to challenge Petersen on, is what's really hiding behind being concerned with values. I think a lot of people have problems understanding how the Right Taxation Policy can be reconciled with a strong commitment to, for example. school in the time to come, in addition to significant cuts in agricultural transfers, as we know will affect the districts, significant cuts in sick pay – many billion DKK – cut aid to poor countries, up to DKK 2.5 billion. We know that the Right is involved in debt and trade. It is well and good, but assistance is necessary to save people from poverty. And we know that 1.4 million people in the world have only one dollar to live for. My question to the representative Jan Petersen is ideological. I want to challenge him on the following: What values does he think Right Policy expresses? What do the non-material values mean with respect to tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2107	I would first like to agree that the Right Party and the Christian Party have many common values, that's a lot we can stand together about. I also want to add that we have previously shown in practice that we can find good solutions in common. There's no one in doubt about what my plane A is about. I would like it to be a collaboration that would see the light of day again, but I understand that it is not going to move on this side of the election, and of course we have accepted that as part of the reality. We tell people that the better choices the right makes, the easier you get implemented the positions on the right. In the field of fiscal policy, too, there are some important common issues that we can deal with together. I have noticed with great pleasure that Kjell Magne Bondevik has spoken in favour of raising the peak tax. I know that the Christian People's Party together with us wants to put a line over the house tax, so here's a lot of good beginnings. But then I have a little problem with what Lånke means by "the non-material values," because it's not very immaterial that the government is suddenly going to take over a lot of people's income. That's as much hard money as anyone else. It's just questions about who's going to dispose of them. It's not like there's a smaller material angle of incidence than saying that you should have tax relief. The point is simply whether you trust people to dispose of their income in a sensible way, and we do. That's an ideological question. But there's more than ideology here, among other things. a question as to whether it is possible for Norway to be a different tax policy country. Shouldn't we be doing the same reflections as Sweden? It's one of the important motives behind what we've done. Our annual budgets show that we get the budgets going together. It shows that there are responsible ways to do it. I don't want to misinterpret in any way the polls that we're now seeing, but you might say that the horrors so far haven't been particularly good for the people either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2121	Since the Right Party and the Advance Party very much agree on the need to reduce taxes and taxes, at least I think it would be an interesting exercise to see at what rate and at what rate the Right Party intends to implement its tax and tax promises. I have four years behind me in this house. On 8 September 1997, Right-wing fiscal spokesman, Per-Christian Foss, said: ‘Frp notifies itself from the handover lots.’ He further stated that we were «a threat to the Norwegian economy». At a later stage, when the Progress Party presented its alternative state budget for 1998, where we proposed NOK 27 billion in tax reliefs, our policy belonged to another planet, according to the same spokesman. I am pleased – and the first person to do so – that the Right has begun to become a little tougher in tax policy, at least when they talk. But we've all seen that the right is operating with a number of approx. $40 billion. Then it might be interesting to know if these 40 billion will be carried out in one year, two years, five years, ten years, 20 years. So if you have a ten-year horizon of giving $40 billion in relief, you don't have to give more than $4 billion per. year of relief. Of course, as a result, people aren't going to notice it on the wallet, and then, of course, it might be harder to defend. I can imagine getting that explanation from the Right. And then it's also very interesting to know how the Right is going to cover this up. Is it so that the Right should cover every single tax and tax crown for heads, as they have always said? Or is that what Per-Kristian Foss has said in recent times, that one is also open to cover some of the tax cuts by using oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2143	This reply, I think, was a convincing argument that it could be an advantage to have more than one annual budget to work with. But that's the way it is in the annual budgets we're working. I must refer to the close history, where we have managed to make quite significant changes on the tax side within a balanced and settled budget, where there has not only been room for tax relief, but there has also been room for some expenditure increases in areas we believe are important, such as: school, defence and road construction. And the last year's figure was, of course, $20 billion in relation to the proposal that the agreement was based on. So it shows that we can. With regard to the objective, I have to repeat what I have said in several rounds today, namely that we have not given any time for this goal. But we believe that it is important to have a goal and an understanding of the dynamics, and not least to use this goal to understand where it burns the most. And I want to repeat: we must not believe that this country can be a different tax policy country, that we can try to have a tax level here completely without considering what the world looks like out there. That's the question I think we'll agree on. But I've made it quite clear that it's not that we can promise to implement it over the four-year period, but we're going to do what we can to achieve the goals. There will be three sources to meet the tax commitments: One is what I have been talking about, namely re-disposal on this year's budget, which we have done quite difficult amounts. The second is the economic growth that is regularly on the state budget. It would be totally unreasonable if it were to go for public consumption in its entirety. And this is reinforced by the fact that we're using returns from the oil fund. The third concerns the modernisation of public activities. It is necessary to release funds which should also be able to benefit from tax relief. In this context, it's important to have government participation, because then we're sitting on some of the command positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2160	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2163	I am pleased that the treatment of the revised national budget has become what it should be, namely a revision of the budget we have already adopted. Revised is not a new budget, but it is a communication on the implementation of the budget we adopted before Christmas. Therefore, only minor adjustments and changes are normally necessary. That's what the government did, and we've also had a majority for that. The budget is essentially a continuation of the budget for which there was a majority in the Grand Duchy before Christmas, with some minor adjustments and changes. I take that as an expression of the fact that, in all the discussion, all the preparations for the election campaign, it is still possible to model a majority of a responsible policy here in the Grand Duchy, and that, in fact, this year less than in previous discussions on the revised national budget, perhaps especially compared to the 1997 election year, it has been possible to have a majority for a responsible policy and to continue the budget adopted last autumn. It also implies that there is a majority in favour of pursuing an economic policy that has the same characteristics and is based on the same values as it was the majority for when the budget itself was adopted, that is, that we should improve, build up, in a responsible, step-by-step way, one of the world's best welfare societies. We will do that, because although Norway is a good country to live in for most people, there are still gaps, still weaknesses in the Norwegian welfare community. It continues to be that too many fall outside, because many are not allowed to participate in the prosperity development of most people. Then it's important to do something about the shortcomings, then it's important to do something to make sure that everyone joins in, and that's why we have a budget where we step by step do something about those challenges. We have a budget that involves a better health service, a budget where we finance an important health reform, namely a permanent medical doctor for all the Nordics. 95 pst. got the doctor they wanted. It is a very high figure and shows that the reform has started well. We have a budget that means that we treat more patients in Norwegian hospitals than ever before. Waiting times are reduced, waiting lists fall, and treatment capacity increases. We have a budget that means that we get more and cheaper kindergartens. In recent years, we have seen a sharp decline in the development of new kindergartens, while there has been a sharp increase in payments for kindergartens. We want to do something about both: a rise in expansion and a decrease in prices. There is a majority in the Grand Duchy to increase the grant per year. nursery facilities, so that there is a basis for seeing slightly lower prices already this year. That's the first step, but it's the first time in very many years that we're now getting an increase in the subsidy per. kindergarten, so that we can reverse the evolution that has occurred, with increasingly expensive kindergartens. Then we have a budget that takes important steps for a better school – not all the steps at once, but some important steps. We have a budget that finances a paylift for the teachers. Teachers are getting more pay, students are getting more education and cheaper school books — many places we will start introducing free school books — and there will be more PC and IT equipment in school. We have a budget that also means thanking those who have the most difficulty, with efforts in relation to housing policy and labour market measures for those who fall outside the ordinary labour market. We want to expand the Norwegian welfare society step by step and make a good welfare society even better to correct imbalances and shortcomings. Then it's about the willingness to get money and to spend more money in the areas where we see that there is a lack, but it's not least about spending the money better. And what we see at the end of this big session is that it's barely ever before adopted bigger and more important reforms that have one purpose: that we're going to spend public money better, so that we get more health, more education, more police and more well-being for every penny we spend over the public budgets. Building up the Norwegian welfare community is about spending more money in important areas, but it's not least about getting more well-being back for the money we spend. And that's what we do in the hospital reform, a reform that gives hospitals greater responsibilities and, therefore, better money management. We collect the ownership of one owner. It is a major reform involving hundreds of thousands of employees and hundreds of thousands of patients every year. The agreement with the teachers also means the renewal of the public sector. Teachers are paid more – students receive more education in return. The reform of higher education, adopted a few days ago, represents the greatest renewal of Norwegian higher education in very many years. Students receive more education — in return, they will carry out the studies more quickly, learn more in a shorter time. Study funding needs to be improved precisely for that purpose, so that the full-time student can be repatriated, and we get better use of the money we spend on higher education. In recent years, the number of scientific staff of Norwegian higher education institutions has increased by 40 pst, the number of students has increased by 10 pst. It's an image that we may not have had the development in higher education that we should have had in good use of resources. We're now doing something about that. So to the defense. 5000 savings and 2 billion dollars in savings will provide a stronger defence and better use of money. Police: nearly 500 more policemen in the streets, less bureaucracy and more police. Simplification in the municipal sector, which also involves savings there. But then there's a big misunderstanding. That misunderstanding occurred in my opinion by the representative Petersen, on behalf of the Right, in his previous post. Indeed, the impression is created that the renewal of the public sector — with the major reforms that will make us less bureaucratic, less administrative, fewer in offices, more in services, fewer police in offices, more in the streets, more treatment per year. doctor and a more efficient public sector – providing a basis for releasing money for tax relief. It's completely wrong. The point is that the billions we now save in Defense – 5 000 fewer employees, 2 billion dollars saved every year – are money that we're going to spend to strengthen Defence. And at least the Right is close to having extra money for tax reliefs in the context of the defence reform. On the contrary, they should increase taxes in order to finance their promises of ever-new billions to the Defence. Corresponding to the police: We save a lot of money on the police, but it does not provide free money for tax relief – that is the money we need to strengthen the police. Higher education is the same: we reform higher education, get it more effective, get more money again for the funds we invest. But tax relief is not going to be free – there's going to be more money for higher education. Of course, that's the way it is in school, and that's the way it is in all the other areas. It illustrates that the Right's idea that tens of billions of dollars in tax credits can be financed through the renewal of the public sector is fundamental faults, because in all areas where we are now renewing the public sector, that innovation is not a means of saving money so that we can distribute billions of dollars at lower taxes primarily to those who earn the most, but it is a measure to get better defence, better police, better education, better health care – largely a better welfare society here in our country. This illustrates some of the problems of the Right: that they now – perhaps just passed by the Progress Party – promise more than they can hold. It is not serious for a government party to operate with tax reliefs of the order of 40 to 80 billion kroner, because that is what we are talking about, after the Right Tax Commissioner has talked about us going down at EU level when we do not take the oil into account, and at the same time gives the impression that it is possible to get more money for roads, research, school, health, police and many other good purposes. The problem for the Right is that they now promise so much that they create confusion about what they actually promise. The problem is that they have created the impression that they are going to eliminate property taxes, housing taxes, facilitate depreciation rules for business, remove top taxes, increase minimum deductions and many other taxes. And in every tax debate, they make the impression that there's something they're going to do pretty quickly. When we add this up for them, they say here we have to think about, this can take time – and it's over very many years. We believe that it is a reasonable requirement that the Right, which now promises more than any other party, should try to quantify what should be done in the coming growing-up period. We in this Chamber should meet that requirement, because we should know what the Right is in tax policy – not least the voters should know what they actually stand for. The Labour Party represents a step-by-step development of the Norwegian welfare community. We've been doing that for years, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2201	The Prime Minister said that we are being treated responsibly by the revised national budget, that is the adjustment a revision should be. I agree with that, and in fact, the Christian People's Party and Centre have been very much involved. Once we've taken responsibility for the current year's budget at all, it's because we made a historic change to the Government's proposal, at about. $20 billion. Otherwise, the year after the government change has also been marked by the fact that the government has had to go on a number of defeats in some major cases. Stoltenberg began its period of government by saying that the previous government was ‘uniquely weak’. I think the two and a half years we crashed, compared to the one year that Stoltenberg has been running, show that the central government is actually doing pretty well. His characteristics turn back like a boomerang, and it could be interesting to get an honest, realistic characteristic of what his own government has been through. The Prime Minister is – positive enough – strongly concerned with kindergarten development, wants a rise in construction, a decline in prices. It's a vision we share. The Christian People's Party wants a real freedom of choice. Therefore, in addition to this, we must also have a cash support. In order to ensure more kindergarten places now and to ensure lower prices, the Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that the whole support for kindergartens should go directly to the kindergarten, among others. in order to avoid that approved private kindergartens do not receive municipal support, as is the case with too many today, and thus become very expensive. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has expressed itself openly and left the impression of a positive assessment of such a conversion. There is a concrete proposal today. Will the Prime Minister recommend the Workers' Party to vote in favour of this in order to speed up kindergarten expansion in order to reduce prices? And will the Prime Minister also agree that we need to avoid County Hospitals being forced into the conversion phase they are now in to reduce activity in the current year? Can we have the Labour Party's support for the proposal made by the representative of Mr Enoxen that this should not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2212	I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for a responsible approach to the revised national budget. In the past, I saw Right as a more responsible party in economic policy than the Christian People's Party. Now I think they're about to change places. The right is becoming an irresponsible party on the civil side, while the Christian People's Party at least in ours has shown a greater degree of responsibility than what we have experienced in the past, and I am pleased about that. In the case of kindergartens, the starting point is the following: The years of central government there was a sharp decline in the development of new kindergartens in Norway. We had the lowest rate of expansion in very many years. In addition, prices increased, and in particular they increased for the very smallest children, because the cash-aid scheme was introduced, which means that if you choose kindergarten, you lose the cash support and have to pay for the nursery. We're now trying to get back into kindergarten. Then it is important to discuss different models of how it is financed. But no matter what model you go in for, either the model that the Stortinget put together a year ago, that is, a division between municipalities and the state, or other models, they have in common that the models require money. The main problem with kindergarten spending in recent years is that there has been too little money input into the investment, and the result has been a sharp decline in development and a sharp increase in prices. In fact, during the central government, the grant went by children's garden space down. So it was given less and less per cent. children in kindergarten. Of course, it helps to make kindergarten places better, this is the first year in a very long time that grants are increasing. It also means that I believe that while it is important to discuss different models, the most important thing now is to highlight the political will to mobilise money for the kindergarten sector. The first steps we got when we adopted the budget last fall, and then we get a plus now, and that's the first step for cheaper kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2225	The Prime Minister has a funny definition of the word ‘responsible’. He should now at least have praise for holding on to the fact that the Workers' Party believes at all times, is the only one responsible. He maintains that no matter what kind of feedback he gets from the people on its policies. The problem with the Prime Minister is that he has no imagination to see that things can be done differently from what he himself has put up to, and when someone tries to do something different, it's per. definition irresponsible. The Prime Minister devalues the concept of accountability in the way he argues. As far as tax is concerned, I have answered that question. It was not reflected in the manuscript that the Prime Minister had, but we can then come back to that point. But I want to say that it would be a good start if the Ministry of Finance could explain correctly what the tax policy of the Right is. We're going to hope that there might be something to start with. The Prime Minister was also very impressed with the reform policy put in place by the Labour Party. I have to say that part of it has been good – the police reform, for example. Part of it was probably the most necessary, not least created by the Workers' Party's own sub-budget. It's about the defense, where he's obviously very impressed that we're now getting up to the level we're demanding of the new NATO member states. But the point is that what the Workers' Party is doing is far too small, and it's far too imaginative. When we carried out the health reform, the Workers' Party should also be willing to put an end to the county municipality. You don't dare, and it costs money. But then there was a question of ‘willing to raise money’, as the Prime Minister said. Then the question is, could the Prime Minister say a little about what kind of tax policy we can expect from the Labour Party? In the past, the Minister of Finance has said that he promises that he will not increase the level of taxation in the State budget for 2002. That's what Thorbjørn Jagland said a few years ago, and so it became a historically high increase in taxes. My question to the Prime Minister is: is there any greater reason to trust Schjøtt-Pedersen in 2001 than it was to trust Thorbjørn Jagland in 1998?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2238	As for the trait of imagination, I think it's among the characteristics of people, and especially decision-makers, should have in a proper dose, in the sense that one should have imagination to think new. I believe that the reforms we have implemented, not least. in higher education — that thousands of young people receive more education and get out of work faster than in today’s system — is an expression of a good and responsible amount of political imagination. On the other hand, I believe that when the Right now operates with promises of tax relief of from 40 to 80 billion kroner, you've got a little too much imagination. For it is only in the fantasy world that it is possible, if we are not to implement dramatic cuts in welfare schemes that most of the Nordics regard as absolutely essential: health, education, kindergartens, schools and other important areas. The problem is that there is now confusion in the Right. It is therefore a problem that the Right fiscal spokesman clearly confirms this fact that the share of taxes and charges in GDP must be reduced from 49 pst. of GDP to 42 pst. of GDP, as reported in the last issue of the Economic Report. That's $78 billion. He's going to spend six years on it. Well, there are tens of billions in four years. It's only in the fantasy world that it's possible to implement, if not – and that's what's the glimmer of Right's proposal – you have to implement very dramatic cuts in health, education and the other important things we're financing together in our country. It is true that we will then come down to the EU average level, but our goal is to have a welfare state that is significantly better than the EU average. But then we also have to be willing to pay something more than the average, but in line with our Nordic neighbouring countries. It's true, as Hill-Marta Solberg said instead, that it's going to be 420 kroner less in taxes for someone who's making 275 000 kroner. Is a sick half a day, one with the Right Order has lost the entire tax relief. Having a high income, high wealth, serves one with the Right Order. It's an unsocial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2249	In a way, I think Prime Minister Stoltenberg is a little funny. When the Progress Party was very high on polls and I was in discussion with him, he talked all the time about the Progress Party's problem. Now the Right is relatively high on polls, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg is talking about Højre's problem. In fact, I think there are a lot of people in the labour movement and the Labour Party who would think it was interesting if Prime Minister Stoltenberg soon started to take an interest in the problems of the Labour Party, because in many respects they are relatively larger and more significant than the problems that the Right might have, and the Progress Party might have. I think it might have been nice to hear: when will the Prime Minister begin to worry about his own party's problems? So he said in his post that what is needed for kindergartens is to mobilise money for kindergartens so that you can lower the prices and increase the rate of kindergarten development. So today, the Right Party and the Advance Party are proposing an increase in these 20 pst allocations, against the Workers' Party's 10 pst. Can I get the Prime Minister's assurance that he will remember this when we get to the election campaign, and not give the usual false representations of his competitors? SV's head of the Transport Workers' Association now says: ‘Cut taxes on petrol and electricity!’ Furthermore, it says: ‘It may not be a requirement that is supported by my party, but Steinrike Norway can afford lower taxes on petrol and electricity, says Østvold, head of the Norwegian Transport Workers’ Federation of LOs.’ My last question will then be: Is this just as irresponsible as the Prime Minister claims that it is when the Advance Party cuts heavily electricity and petrol taxes to compensate for the price increase, so that we could get a slightly lower price level in this country, so that we might get a lower interest rate again? Thus, as Eastern violence says, this can be done without doing anything but reducing the large surplus in ‘Stone Kingdom of Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2268	First, I used most of my own post to talk about the Labour Party's policy and what the Government has done. But I also believe it is my responsibility to bring forward some of the political differences in relation to the issues that are now up for debate. When the government put forward its bet on kindergartens, we made suggestions for an increase of several billion dollars over four years. We'll take something in the harvest, and $1 billion next year. Then I said that I was sure of one thing, and that was that other parties would pass. We're used to that. This happened exactly the same way when we presented the spring 1994 retirement plan, where we were to prepare care for the elderly in Norway. But what is characteristic of the Workers' Party is that when we present these kinds of plans, promises, to renovate important welfare goods, whether it's the care of the elderly or the kindergartens, we implement them. The problem is that in the last few years, especially during the central government, there has been a turbulence in kindergarten development, a sharp increase in prices, and the grant per year. The space has gone down. Now the subsidy is going to be per. And it's not surprising that other parties are now fighting to get over us. But it's only when we get to the government offices, that once again we actually get a majority to bet on kindergartens, give more money to kindergartens and get to measures that step by step, year by year, will provide lower prices. In the case of taxes, I think I should remind you of the following: For the first time, the petrol fee has been reduced, with more than one kroner, with NOK 1.20 or NOK 1.30. The diesel tax has been reduced, the VAT on food is halved, and households make total use of the current VAT conversion. So tax reductions are being carried out, but within a responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2277	I notice that the Prime Minister repeats the message of accountability, just as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg did earlier today, when she characterised the proposal of the Central Party of DKK 12 billion in debt cancellation to the municipalities as ‘uncovered overbidden policy’. That a few days ago, 15 billion kroner were put on the table for new equity in Telenor to be so much more responsible, I have problems understanding. But enough about it. The Prime Minister used a large part of his intervention to describe the need for a better health care system and that state acquisition of hospitals should contribute to it. The Prime Minister has failed to fully answer Kjell Magne Bondevik’s questions about the Workers’ Party, which will support the proposal that the undersigned has promoted earlier this year, which calls for hospitals around the counties to recover their deficits arising in 2001, based on the maintenance of normal activity in the current year. It is a fact that very many hospitals, if not most, are now in a situation where they need to reduce activity. There is even talk of shutting down the local hospitals a few months before the state will take responsibility for the hospital operation for the simple reason that you are in a needed financial situation. So we have put forward a proposal that means that the normal activity of hospitals can be maintained in the current year. I have previously asked representatives from both the Government and the Workers' Party whether they would support such a proposal, but they call it a blank mandate to run on as you would like from the county council. One is that there is a complete lack of trust in our state politicians, the other is that it says in the proposal that it should be based on normal activity. Will the Prime Minister help the county councils to maintain normal activity in hospitals in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2288	This issue has also been raised earlier in the debate and, as Parliamentary leader Hill-Marta Solberg and other speakers from the Workers' Party have underlined, our assessment is that hospitals and the counties have a framework for having a responsible level of activity in 2001. These include: a result of the merger of the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party through a budget settlement last year, which means that hospitals have never received more funding before, and that more patients have never been treated before than now. So there's more money for the hospitals than it's ever been done under the central government. Now, of course, we're following developments in the hospital sector, and we're in a difficult transition. This transformation is funded in a way that enables the counties to continue their efforts in relation to high school and other important welfare schemes — even if hospitals are taken out, and of course some funding is also provided in this context. I think it is crucial in the case of hospitals: Norway is the country in Europe with the highest number of doctors compared to population. At the same time, the number of patients treated per year is higher than that of those treated per year. play down. And we have a lot of valuable equipment that only uses a few hours a day, maybe just a few hours a week. So the problem in the case of Norwegian hospitals is not just a question of giving more money – we should – but it is also a question of having too little use of all the money we have already given, whether it is for premises, equipment or wages for health workers. It is a major problem, and therefore we are implementing a hospital reform that will allow us to make better use of the resources invested in the hospital system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2297	Let me follow up the dialogue that has been going on about kindergartens, and what a great deal of effort you are now facing. What is under review is a redispatch of former funds. It is quite right, as the Prime Minister has said, that during the central government there was an abrupt halt in the development of kindergartens, and this also means that there is a lot of money left that is now being redispatched to have a lower quota. And that's good. But at the same time, we see that many municipalities are not using the money that is already allowed to reduce the nursery rate for their parents. If the ambitious plans that lie here – which are even more ambitious at SV, that is probably right – are implemented, and if that rate of expansion is maintained, it is, after all, positive. What we see is that municipalities take this money for their own income, and that it's not the parents of kindergarten children who get a lower quota. SV has therefore launched an idea that we have taken from Sweden, where our sister party, together with the Environmental Party and the Social Democratic Party, will introduce maximum tariffs in kindergartens from 1 January 2002. This has been done in recognition that municipal autonomy is good and good, but it often turns out that it is not so good that it benefits the parents of kindergarten children. The prices in Sweden are, as far as I remember, set at NOK 1 240, i.e. about a third of what a normal Norwegian nursery place costs – both in municipal and private kindergartens. My challenge to the Prime Minister is this: if it turns out now – and there is every reason to believe after the preliminary rounds that have taken place in Kommune-Norway – that these new 240 million. kr that comes in this round, does not go to a reduction in the rate, and that perhaps also the new billions the Stortinget will use in the future, will not go to a reduction in the kindergarten rates, will the Prime Minister do as his sister party in Sweden, namely ensure that the Stortinget will adopt maximum rates for kindergartens that make it impossible to avoid this gain benefiting the parents of kindergarten children? As it is now, it costs a lot of places over 4000 kroner for a nursery. Kindergarten has become a luxury, and so we can't have it that way. The challenge to the Prime Minister is very simple: will he ensure that we can get maximum tariffs in Norwegian kindergartens as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2308	I have had many long conversations with Prime Minister Göran Persson in Sweden about what they have done in their kindergarten sector. And we certainly have a lot to learn from them, and there have been useful conversations. There are two things to say about Sweden in relation to Norway. One is that they've spent a few years on it, so nothing happened from one year to the next. The second is — and that may be a more important difference — that in Sweden almost all kindergartens are municipal. And they're not in Norway. It may or may not be the same, but it is a result of the mobilization we had for kindergartens in the 1980s and 1990s, which not least the Workers' Party also supported through state grants to private kindergartens, which makes that 40 pst. by Norwegian children go to private kindergartens. Then we have to be careful not to introduce rules that make the number of kindergartens drop dramatically, and the situation in Norway is slightly different from the situation in Sweden. What we've said is that we're going to increase state grants to kindergartens so much that we can halve the total parental payment for kindergartens. Today, parents pay about 40 pst. the cost of a kindergarten. It's going down to 20 pst. That difference is to be paid by the state, and then it becomes cheaper kindergartens. A Norwegian nursery, unlike a Swedish, is everything from three kids in the living room to the neighbor or some other living room in the living room or a farm nursery to a private nursery to a large municipal nursery. Prices vary from a few hundred patches to many thousands. Sometimes parents do a lot of hard work. The room is set at the disposal of a company or a housing unit, and the price may be low. In other places, there are expensive premises, little hard work, high costs, large staffing, and the price is high. What diversity means is that we believe that what is primarily important in relation to kindergartens now is to provide more state support per year. Possible values are: space, space, space. Then the kindergartens get cheaper, and we're already told that it happens in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2317	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2320	Sometimes when I talk to people from other countries about the situation in Norway, most people say it's a funny country. I say that our hospitals now have to make certain restrictions on their business, which are justified by the lack of money to pay wages. This is due, inter alia, to: hospitals have a deficit from last year which must be covered in the current year’s operations. Then I tell you that our police have old police cars that you don't have money in the budgets to get fixed, and that you wait until they get three years old so you can replace them. I am talking about the fact that we now have an increase in prices due mainly to increased prices of petrol, diesel, electricity and other things, and that the high prices are due to very, very high charges. I'm telling you about different areas where we have problems, while at the same time we have a sky-high tax and tax level and a surplus on the state budget, added up to approx. 190 billion kroner, and in the context of the revision it turns out to grow to 230 billion kroner. That's when they don't make this work together. What is the point of the big oil business and its revenues if they are not to benefit most people in terms of lower taxes, lower taxes and sufficient funds for the most important areas for people? I just have to say that I don't get it either. Nor have I received any good reason from either Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen or Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, and especially when we talk about the individual things. It can't be that if we remove the debt from the hospitals so they don't have to cover it, it's going to be inflation. That's what Stoltenberg and Schjøtt-Pedersen say, but the remarkable thing is that when the bulk of the population yesterday cut off 2 billion dollars of NSB's debt, we didn't hear anything about that issue. Here you talk to two tongues. In the revised national budget and in the appropriations, the Progress Party has just decided to address the main problems. We're increasing the appropriations for the hospitals, so at least they can't use a lack of money as an excuse for not using the capacity. We lower the taxes on fuel, petrol, diesel and electricity charges, so we help get the price rise down, and most people get better. If we got a lower price increase, we could also hope for lower interest rates, which would benefit most people. All of this goes against the Workers' Party. Then, as the Labour Party says, there is no lack of communication that is the problem of the government party when it sinks on the polls. It's excellent communication, and I hope that Jens Stoltenberg and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will be even better in communication and really find that they are combating the reduction of taxes, so that people get better, and that they really get that they are fighting appropriations for health care. Even expanding access to some medicines on a blue prescription, which is for the weakest in economic terms, the government and the centre parties today are doing no to say no to. Just as there was some inflation in the fact that some chronically ill people failed to pay sky-high bills for necessary medications. It's totally incomprehensible. So this country has been hit by more and more crime, especially the capital of the country. I just want to show you one more time to the Times of the World today on pages 10 and 11 about who is "fearing." So it's that today, with a few simple steps, the Storing can do something drastic to combat this crime, both by taking some decisions that empower the Government, and by deciding on more money, so that they have the opportunity to double the crew of the Oslo Police on the weekends, get more people out on the streets to act as prevention of crime. Then there is a lack of money that is the reason of the government party, and probably also the center parties, SV and Right. We've created a package, proposals no. 107-116, which has to do with this. It should be possible for a big deal to respond when it is obvious that things are going very wrong. When people start to fear, we can sometimes show some action. I think it's sad that there's no sign that there's anyone else but the Progress Party that takes it inwards. The revision of the budget shall be revised in relation to what has happened since the last time, and some new information has been received since the last time. What we think should happen is that we now showed the force of action and told the people of Oslo that we are going to contribute to more security in the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2344	If there were to be a change of government after the election, that means that Carl I. Hagen will probably have a stronger influence on Norwegian politics. There may, of course, be a lot of ways to secure that support. One of them was suggested in the newspaper yesterday. I'm not going to go into that any further now, although there could be a very interesting debate between Carl I. Hagen and me. When you look at economic policy, later Hagen now to be back at the stage that Anders Lange was at when the slogan was: «Let the taxes of the North Sea pay the taxes of the people.» Now there is a quite broad consensus in the Storting about what room we should have for what we can take out of the return of oil wealth. Then each political party is given priority over that, whether you want to use that money to build the welfare state further, or whether you want to give it to tax relief, which can hit very differently socially. But Hagen makes this sound like it's some kind of free policy. If the right-wing parties are to have a stronger influence over Norwegian policy after the election, it must also be relevant to see what is on the back of the medal. Because it is not the case, not in the economic order of the Progress Party, that everything comes in addition. It also has to be taken from something. It's taken from those who are the poorest in the big world. It's taken from the safety of those who get sick at work here at home. I believe that the whole of forward-looking party policy should also try to get Hagen ahead of the electorate in good time before the elections. It is also a form of political propensity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2353	Let me first say that it's sad that we have to miss Tom Thoresen when we're going to discuss Stortinget's constitution for the autumn. It has been a great pleasure to have the regular dishes that have always followed when Tom Thoresen has taken a line on my posts in the various, slightly larger debates. It's some of what I'm going to miss. The Workers' Party has also acted unusually unwisely. I'm happy if it turns out that we're getting stronger influence. That would be for the best for the Norwegian people and especially for the most people. In fact, we have never left the slogan: «Let the North Sea's taxes pay the people's taxes.» We have always viewed these revenues as being available both for increased expenditure and for reducing taxes and taxes. We've also always been sober about the economic situation. But it's actually possible to say yes, both parts, and that we can now get both in bag and bag – within the framework of reasonableness and reason, and there are different points of view on what is reasonable and reasonable. So we have a different view than some bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance, as everyone else in this room has appointed as gurus, who have never seen a difference between a krona used for operations or investment, or a krona used in Norway or abroad. It's not like everything has to be tightened up. It is possible to allocate NOK 2 billion to installations in the road sector without any negative effects, other than reducing unemployment benefit payments. We actually get road development for the same money plus a little more and get used up free capacity. It is possible to save hospital directors to think about how to save money and let them start looking at how to treat more patients. It's an opportunity to give funds to the police without us having any problems with it. So it's actually a wrong description that Tom Thoresen unfortunately had in his last line to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2362	It was interesting to record in the last line exchange the fear that Tom Thoresen expresses of giving the Advance Party influence in Norwegian politics. We have recorded that during the four-year period that has passed, in fact, the Workers' Party of all of them in this Chamber has contributed most to giving the Advance Party influence. One of these things is IT Fornebu, which I would like to ask Carl I. Hagen say a little about. This was a major issue in 1998-1999. Now two years have passed since the Stortinget made its decision, and there is a lot of evidence that the project that the Advance Party participated in and fought through in Stortinget is struggling to get started. There is little progress and there is still much to be done in terms of content. An existing status report confirms this. Many plans are under way without final clarification, and a number of projects are described in this status report as still at the stage of idea. The Ministry of Local Affairs explains the lack of progress in the project with the necessary clarifications in relation to ESA, that the transfer of property from the Municipality of Oslo took longer than foreseen, and that collective transport solutions are currently in blue. In the last few days it has also become known that SINTEF and BI are leaving the board of IT Fornebu. Then there is reason to say that the project that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party looked at as a performance project is quite boring at that time. The question to Carl I. Hagen is therefore whether he is satisfied with the progress of the project, and whether it corresponds to the expectations and assumptions that he and the bulk of the population had at the time of the project. If not, does Hagen then see the need to defer further payment of share capital to further clarifications made in relation to whether the Stortinget's assumptions on content and progress have been respected, in line with the proposal that Lars Sponheim has made in Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2379	First, to Brother Yngve Rahm's opening comment on who should have contributed to the most influence of the Progress Party in Norwegian politics. Let me make it clear that I have no problem with other parties possibly competing to get the credit for giving us the most influence, and it's all right if that competition between other parties to give us influence continues after the election. It will be quite fine, we have nothing against it, and then the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party get to argue about that honor. But for the first two years of this big time period, I will allow myself to say, changed dramatically in the way that the Progress Party was referred to in the Norwegian press and in the Stortinget, so here it is very active competition. I understand that Brother Yngve Rahm will not have the revision of the national budget and such things on the agenda, but find a case that he believes will be a good case. Of course, we are going to vote against the proposal tabled by Lars Sponheim. We have some patience with projects. All projects will sometimes have some problems, and it is clear that Right-Handed Bærum is doing what they can to stop Norway from getting an international IT environment and IT centre, which all the other Nordic countries have. Of course, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party must continue to do so, because they're a little jealous because there were some others who tried to do something that would make sense in the long term. Of course, the visions of this center are still there, even though Bærum Right is trying to make a little bit of trouble for the expansion of it. We don't think it makes any sense to go into the Great Britain to break agreements that are binding, as it is in the present situation, and get into liability and a lot of legal wrangling. That's actually what the Storting should end with, getting involved in business relationships and making it so that there's more and more coverage for what Rosengren said, that in Norway it's so that once agreements are made in the business world, the Storting and the politicians come and make trouble and think it's the people who are going to run businesses and such in detail. We're not going to go along with that gala.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2388	I will leave IT fornebu, even if it is tempting after Hagen's last answer. The right has no objection to giving the Progress Party greater influence, at least not in the areas where we agree. Tax policy is an area in which the Right and the Progressive Party share the same objective. We might disagree a little bit about how much, and how it's going to be financed, but we agree on the goal, and that's what matters. Our two parties also agree on the need to modernise the public sector. With regard to the willingness to bet on school and education, there has been a great distance between the Right and the Advance Party. The right-hand view is that school and education are an important area, that perhaps the most important thing we can give to the growing up family is a good education. We are also committed to ensuring that industry has a skilled workforce. In previous years, the Progress Party has cut quite sharply in the school and education sectors, among other things. in the budget of the University of Oslo. We are pleased that the Progress Party in revision is coming after the Right and is now willing to invest more in school and education. My question to Hagen is whether this new orientation is adapted to the fact that we are approaching a choice, whether it is part of a kind of double communication, where you cut the budget and add to it in the revised, or whether it is the outcome of a more lasting change in course, that the Progress Party, like the Right, wants to invest more in the school and education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2401	I think it was really festive that Jan Tore Sanner now talked about betting on school and education, and I'm very happy that the Right has actually started to do it. But in terms of school policy content, and that's what's important – Kristin Halvorsen likes to laugh, but I don't have any problems finding proposals from the mid-1980s and early 1990s that were skin-stained from the Right, which are now important elements of the Right Policy – we're very happy that the Right first changed its policy according to what we've stood for before, and so will bet on it, but the Right still hasn't taken the last step. If we're going to bet on school and education from Stortinget, we have to make it a state responsibility. It doesn't help to spend any money on Municipality-Norway, so they can build more cultural houses, hire more bureaucrats and spend more on representation. It's only at the moment that the State budget is going to grant directly to school and education, that we can talk about betting on it. We have now said for over ten years that school and education must become a state responsibility, so that we can direct the money to school and educational institutions. After 15 years, we have managed to get a majority for this in the case of hospitals – with Right-wing support and finally the Workers' Party. There is a similar reform we need in school and education, so that we get the best possible offer in this area across the country and do not become dependent on local politicians' ideas in budgetary situations. That is also why we have had a downfall in school buildings. There has been a decibel democracy. Those who have cried the highest in the courtyard when the budget is adopted have received money, and then each time the maintenance of the school buildings has been postponed. That's what we have to end up with. We have to get overall governance from that sector as well. But I guess I'm assuming it takes four-five years before the right comes to that exact position as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2412	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2415	In most of the years I've lived, the well-being of this country has been ensured by spice layers, by spending time with each other in periods of life where we either didn't make money because we were too young or because we went to school, were sick or unemployed. Solidarity we called it in the environment that chose me to the Stortinget. We knew that there was nothing called free lunch; everything had to be paid. The anger went out on those who were less involved in the fissure layer. We saw that the tax system was so interconnected that those who allegedly had to pay a lot of taxes, and who claimed that they did, slipped away. Gradually we got into place a tax system that took more of the income of those who nevertheless had more left than those I knew had gross in the ‘Pash’. We also received taxes on consumption. In today's tax system, the split layer works better than before, but now the reversal is to be sold, and I have to admit that so far it has been sold well. Tens of thousands of lifting millions are now being distributed without any particular emphasis on what less money to split means for those who depend on it. One hundred thousand dollars in reduced top taxes to one who earns one million, obviously sells just now better than tens of thousands of millions in prostheses where the split previously paid. The so far invisible list of propensities to cancel out the tax credits, primarily to those who already have a lot, should now start to interest the media designers a little bit more. As everyone here knows, I'm charging, and I'm going to admit that there's a couple of our 20 excise duties that we should get rid of, not because they had made the shower and the chocolate cheaper, but because they're strange and ridiculous. In the case of the others, I am at any time willing to discuss the device and size. I myself took the initiative to convert the car charges and adapt them to new technologies and environmental improvements as early as 2003. But from there to more or less to pelting away one and one kind of tax or tax, to which the Right now adds, without making visible the consequences of the fissure layer, limits in my opinion to short-term popular seduction. We now take the final decisions attached to the VAT reform which, among other things, The right took the initiative. In such a process, it will naturally be such that those who get their profit margins pressed will have much to profit from influencing us to make special exceptions just for them, even if it goes at the expense of the rift. It's a real and straightforward behavior on their part. But I have to say, it surprises me that the media, whether it's for example. silicone dolls or training studios, have been unilateral co-claves with front-end consumers, without any significant attention to the joyous lobby companies have expressed when the media strategy on behalf of business operators has been successful. When a new VAT system is in place, we'll see that tomorrow is the next day. I'm going to stop now – that's how properly – and I'm a little sorry about that. But I'm going to cost myself a little bit of a wish on the tap, and that's that splitting and spending a little bit on each other when it's needed will be a little bit stronger on September 10th than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2430	I must say I envy Carl I. Hagen the gift of frowning. That it is possible to stand here without blushing and presenting to the Storting a perception of the reality and truth as if the Progress Party has been the hottest defender of the school throughout all years! I can't believe it. There is not one sector in which the Progress Party has cut more than the school sector, and he is just as healthy and free, without blaming, and claims that they are the warmest defender of the school, just as he says that the Progress Party has had the slogan «La North Sea taxes pay the taxes of the people» for years. There is now a constitutional bill from Carl I. Hagen to infiltrate the oil fund so that no one will fall for the temptation to use a single penny of it, because it is going to secure the pensions. It's for treatment, but Carl I. Hagen stands by fire and bram and means something completely different, and it's been the policy of the Progress Party since the morning. No, I have to say I envy the representative Carl I. Hagen's ability to operate with that kind of rewriting. The most important thing for SV is that you have a perspective on the policy we run every day, which is not only that we should persuade a picker we meet in the street today and tomorrow and perhaps in the day after tomorrow, but that also tolerates today's light and critical review in 10 years and in 20 years. Is it like that, once in the future, we're going to see kids and maybe grandchildren in our eyes and say, "Yes, in 2001 we did the following priorities, and they were right for the future? This is the perspective that Norwegian policy is mostly lacking in my opinion. That's the perspective in the forgotten book when you can sit down and annoy yourself over a fee or two – even four I can get annoyed over. But in general, we're testing whether we're doing the important and right priorities for the future, and then we've got a lot to worry about. We have a public traffic that is such that every day it is a message to those who are trying to take the T-Bahn, the train or whatever it may be, if please take the private car, for this works terribly badly. Is there a forward-looking policy that reduces climate problems and makes people take responsibility for the future, choose different and more environmentally responsible? No, no, no. Is it a responsibility for the future when you make sure that the country's schools, and especially the secondary schools, are in such a constitution – and now I am talking about both equipment and content – that a terrible number of those who go there every day are dismayed? When you ask a 13-year-old or a "forty" about what they're doing, they say, "I'm waiting for me to mature." We need a demanding, challenging knowledge school that includes everyone, and that makes everyone a little bit better based on the possibilities and assumptions they have. Not long ago, I met a little guy, not in a special school, but in a special school. It was a natural school. He told me what he was doing there. Then he said: I am terribly bad in math, so he dropped like two centimeters, and in English, he sank two centimeters more, and in Norwegian – and when he had rammed up everything he was terribly bad in, there was no big guy again. But I'm pretty good at boats, he said, and then I'm really good at hanging engines, and fishing -- all that I'm very good at. I get to do that right here, and then I kind of get better in the other one as well. I think that was a very good explanation of the challenges we have in the Norwegian school system. We can't allow a whole generation of 13-, 14-, 15- and 16-year-olds to have a everyday life that makes them shrink and not grow. The most important thing that the Storting should do in the next period, before doing anything else – before the Right gets an impact on the tax relief of people who have good advice from before – both morning, dinner, evening and gladly in the middle of the night, is get the school up and up, because that is our main national asset. It's the young people who want to secure future pensions. They're the ones who are going to make choices after us, and then we have to make the right choices now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2446	The'sleipner' accident has been caused in a bad way by the searchlight on the safety of coastal traffic and the safety of this traffic has come into focus in a completely different way than before. For the coast's people, there are some names that arouse very bad associations. One is Lago – the piece of sea where the "Sleipner" accident happened. Another is the City – a piece of sea that is scary and frightened by all the seafarers. There are innumerable casualties that have occurred there, and there are lives that have been lost on this piece of sea. The Christian People's Party, together with the other centre parties and the representative of Bastisen, has put forward a proposal to grant $5 million. kr to present the project Town Ship Tunnel. This will provide Sires for small cargo vessels, for the quick-boat link between Møre and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane, for well boat cargo of smolt, etc. We know that SV is very busy marking a strong commitment to rural road safety. This project, which I'm referring to, is an important lever to improve the safety along the coast. My question is, why won't you support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2455	The project the representative mentions is a repeater in Stortinget. I remember from my previous years in the Financial Committee that it often occurred in the context of both revised and otherwise. So what's the reason why SV doesn't crash with support for a project that I think costs half a billion dollars or something like that if it's realized? It's simply because we think that if you're concerned with safety along the coast, and have half a billion dollars at your disposal, you can do many better and trick things to rust up security. Fire services are involved, rescue services are involved, the opportunities offered by Coast Guards – there are just a lot of other measures to strengthen the safety that should be ahead of the City Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2462	An important and correct priority is the priority of being able to give children and young people a good upbringing. This is essential in order to achieve this, inter alia: to have a good school and also to allow children and young people to participate in different leisure activities. In Norway, there is a tradition that almost all leisure activities are organised through countless clubs and associations of all varieties, spread throughout Norway. I record that SV has the aim of exempting children and young people from specialities relating to cultural and leisure services. I think this is very positive. The reasons for removing excesses are good, because high excesses exclude many from the social community that are involved in different activities. Some parents may not have the money for it, while others are not prioritizing it either. The reason why the excesses have become so high is that it has become much harder and harder to run these clubs and associations – whether it be the spear, sports, theater, football, music corps or whatever it may be. My question is: what device has SV intended to be able to implement the removal of these excesses? Is it to support voluntary organisations by simplifying rules and laws and direct support, or is it to provide some free tickets selected via municipality or country? Or is it just a pious wish?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2472	I'm very happy that Kjellaug Nakkim addresses these questions, they're very hard on my heart. The more children and young people we manage to include in different communities, the more people who get to try and get a connection, and the fewer people who can be recruited to other places where they get a connection. This is the most important and important prevention work you can do, even though I want to focus first on the value it has in itself. And I think it would have been nice if more Right-People could also be concerned about this. Because there are very many of the volunteer organizations that are legally responsible for cutting when the municipalities have a terrible economy, and too many dollars are being spun and saved on them, even though in this field we know that we could trigger a lot of activity too little money. So if this could also be the reality of the Right People country and beach around – and you could like to start in Oslo, for example. and made sure that many of the youth measures that have suffered a slow death in the capital got a few dollars so that they could flourish again — it would have been terribly important. I think we have to approach this on multiple fronts. Firstly, above the State budget, we need to pursue an active fertiliser policy in order for non-governmental organisations to receive direct subsidies. Then the municipalities have to do the same to make sure that the fractions are so low that all children can participate. This is also part of what is today's poverty problem. Poverty in the rich Norway is very much about whether you can afford to participate in what children and young people are mostly involved in. So I thank you very much for the commitment of the representative Nakkim. I want a good cooperation in this field, and hope that her greeting goes directly to the City Council in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2481	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2484	When I listen to today's tax debate, I start thinking, is it that ordinary people have gotten worse in the 24 years I've been on the Stortinget? Is it so that they are skinned and trampled down in the mud more brutally than before? I have come to the conclusion that the answer to that is no. On the contrary, it is likely that the vast majority of people in society have improved significantly. Then I'll talk about their standard of living. I am not just talking about that they have experienced a significant real wage improvement even after taxes, but about the fact that problems that we have had during periods with, high unemployment or inflation that eat up purchasing power because we have not been able to keep enough order in the economy, largely not what is the main feature of the Norwegian economy today. Then there are some other things that can hit one in the eye, and that is that in some areas we experience public poverty. In some and fortunately very marginal fields, we experience private poverty. As far as I can manage to look around me, the answer to any of these problems is not tax relief. On the contrary, it requires increased public effort, and thus also increased public funding, and then there may be a debate on something that could change to make things fairer. This is a debate which, of course, the Labour Party must participate in. But the Labour Party cannot sell out the public needs, cannot sell out the fight against marginal, but therefore also very serious private poverty in trying to compete for being a low tax party. There may, of course, be a tactical point towards some election debate, but I don't think it's sustainable as a Labour Party policy. Nor do I believe that it is sustainable as a policy at all. After all, the popular promises made by the tax parties to the majority of people are due to increased private insecurity and increased public confusion in selected fields. There can't be any goal. Then it's not just money that solves the problems. There has been discussion both in this debate and in other previous debates on weak governments. You can, for example: compare the previous minority government with the current minority government. And what I find as the most striking difference is that the minority government that is now sitting has not been afraid to promote reforms, major reforms, to modernise important aspects of our society. Yes, even VAT reform is an important reform to see how our overall tax system works. But there has been higher education reform, there has been defence reform, there has been hospital reform, etc. Major reforms have in common that they have been discussed – of course they are – and there are many actors who want to be involved in the discussion, of course. Major reforms often have the effect that, while they are being discussed, they do not give immediate political profit, but when they are brought to a conclusion, most will probably discover how necessary they are to bring society forward. The question of whether a government is strong or weak is not whether it gets from a minority position all arrangements from a to through in Stortinget. The question of strength and weakness is the question of who dares to promote the reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2500	The date of 1 July 2001 shall be a marking day. Then the VAT on food will be halved. This is more than a handshake; it is a practical and targeted measure to give priority to families with children and others who, in their everyday life, experience that food expenditure takes a substantial part of the disposable income. For the Christian People's Party, a halving of the food tax is a practical anti-dithering policy. Therefore, this has been and is a high priority case for us. As you know, the halving of the food tax is part of the VAT reform. The self-esteem VAT reform was signed before Christmas. But one makes a series of cleanups and clarifications through the management of the revised national budget. It was soon clear that without special measures, the VAT reform would entail considerable additional costs for the important work carried out by voluntary teams and organisations. That is why we got into the budget agreement with the Labour Party last autumn that one would come closer to this in the revised. We are pleased that there is a need for organisations to be fully compensated for the additional costs of the reform. By coming back to this matter in the fall, it will be time, in a good and defensive way and in cooperation with those in debt, to find a simple and accurate system for the practical implementation of the action. In the state budget last autumn, a majority hastened by the fact that § 8 of the property tax law was to be implemented from 1 January this year, in spite of strong warnings. The Christian People's Party was at that time involved in a minority that suggested a one-year postponement of implementation so that the severe loss of income suffered by individual power municipalities could be mitigated. Now there's no good political practice to say, what did we say? But we see the result of the urgency decision. Eleven municipalities have reported a tax loss of more than 60 million. kr, while the Government has added 25 million. kr to cover the wallpaper. Even those who made up the plural last fall should probably agree that the Storting could have taken a little more time. It is simply not that all power municipalities live in an adventurous abundance of money and wealth. In fact, quite a number of residents in these eleven municipalities now clearly note the consequences of the loss of income. Otherwise, the Government will give a revised overview of the Norwegian power production framework. In this context, I must be told that the power industry is important for District Norway, both as an employer and as a taxpayer. The industry is now strongly competitive through the open Nordic power market. Therefore, this important industry in our country must be able to compete on equal terms with foreign operators. From the Christian People's Party we expect the Government to follow up its presentation and come back to the Stortinget with concrete proposals for framework conditions that ensure this national industry's good competitiveness. Norwegian shipping industry has the best means of growth, development and renewal. The Christian People's Party is therefore included in a note that underlines this and concludes by asking the Government to come back to the 2002 state budget with proposals to ensure competitive conditions for Norwegian seafarers, both those working in Norwegian ferry companies and other shipping groups. We must take care of this traditional and forward-looking industry. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party is very busy with the environmental threat from various sources. Large national NOx emissions are such a threat. A pretty big source of pollution is the important ferry we have along the coast. I am, therefore, very pleased that a large majority of the financial committee have been behind a comment that is clear that the replacement rate for old ferries must be provided and that it is necessary to provide a clear signal for gas-powered ferries in conjunction with which it is possible to do so. The majority, consisting of all parties other than the Progress Party, order the Government to re-enter the budget for 2002 with a plan for phase-in of gas-powered ferries. I'm sure here we're on the threshold of what might be a positive environmental revolution for Coast Norway. Finally, I have to come up with an error in Inner. S. No 325. I ask that a note from the Christian People's Party on the Artists' Information Office, which should have been included in the minutes of this meeting at the end of section 10.2 of the setting under the review of chapter 320 entry 78. The note reads as follows: «The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party indicate that the Government proposes to set up Centres for International Imaging and that the grant to the Artists' Information Office will be transferred to the new Centre from 2002 in order to finance this. [[CIKS]] These members would stress that such a transfer of resources should not take place until a professional evaluation of the Artists Information Office has been carried out and the future situation of that Office has been assessed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2529	To date, the State Petroleum Fund has been guided by economic considerations with a desire for a high return of moderate risk. I am pleased that the Government, after considering the case on ethical guidelines for the management of the Petroleum Fund today, will also focus on another consideration, namely ethics in relation to investment in companies. SV has sought ethical guidance for the Petroleum Fund before the money is invested. The Working Party, the Right and the Advance Party have seen the practical problems of identifying the activities to be covered by ethical guidelines. It's not exactly the way SV presents the case, that the majority wants to invest our common money without thinking about what the capital produces. The majority are aware that investment in individual companies can provide both ethical and political dilemmas. The majority therefore agree with the Government that it is necessary to find a mechanism to prevent undesired investment. The solution chosen by the majority is an extraction mechanism, where, in very special situations, one can extract investment from companies, for example: companies producing mines. International conventions, approved by Norway, shall be one of the guidelines for the withdrawal mechanism. Guidelines shall be drawn up and shall not be governed by the work of journalists, as the representative, Mr Djupedal, claimed in his statement earlier today. The will to do something about this problem is great among politicians in all parties, and developments in this area will be closely followed. Let me admit that it's a little creepy in my ears when the center option will push the Workers' Party to create ethical guidelines for the oil fund, which they actually couldn't do in the two and a half years they themselves put in government. This is the last debate Stortinget has before we go into a campaign. I think it's important that the cards are put on the table. The right currently has a very simple agenda. They offer better schools and tax havens. They will eliminate taxes, while providing better health services. I'm not sure if the tax relief is 40 billion kroner or 78 billion kroner, but at least I know that 40 billion dollars is the same thing as we spend a year on hospital operations. It's also interesting to follow the Right in another area, which is when it comes to what they promise to spend money on, because they do it too. It is clear that they are now fighting with the Advance Party to be the best to promise. The problem is that at some point they will have to fulfill the promises, and the Right has decided that they will use the same framework as the rest of us. The question that remains then is, Where do they cut? The right has been affordable in one cut, and that is in relation to the sickness pay scheme. The consequence of their cut in this area is that people who earn little, and are on average sick, lose on the Right Order, and people who are ill for longer periods, lose quite dramatically. Each krone spent in tax relief must be paid in one way or another — either by a service no longer being offered, or by the payment of dividends in kindergartens, school holidays or at school. The problem is also that a tax bill of up to NOK 78 billion is not specified by the Right. So my prayer to the Right is: Tell the Norwegian people what the consequence of the tax and tax bill means for the welfare service, what people will lose or have to pay for in the Right Society. Without the Right breaking the back of the medal, the Norwegian people do not get a real choice. We have two clear alternatives in Norwegian policy: the Right and the Labour Party. I'm concerned about the difference between these two games, and I'm going to do my part to show you what the differences are. I hope that the Right will show us the consequences of their tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2555	The situation in Norway is that we have many road projects that should have been solved for the benefit of most people, not least so that businesses got their products quickly, efficiently and cheaply to the market. A range of projects, such as: Loft in Lofoten, stands as monuments of state insecurity. Started roads on which hundreds of millions of dollars have been used, stop right in the mountain wall, or a bridge stops in nowhere – the examples are many. Seeing one at all of these examples, one would think that one had come to a country that had somehow escaped for money, that the country had somehow been bleaked in the middle of the work. When you travel around the country, it's no better. There are bad roads, narrow roads, like E6, and swinging roads that should have been fixed up. What is done in the revised budget for 2001? Well, there's nothing going on. 3 000 men from the construction industry are unemployed. Hands that should have been at work, machines that should have been at work, stand still. This is the actual case of the construction industry, and the government does nothing. That's the exact same thing that the center parties do -- nothing. In the same period as this happens, the state receives extraordinary income of 41 billion kroner, but the bulk of the population behaves as if this money does not exist. I challenge the Minister of Finance or anyone else in this Chamber to come up on this pulpit and explain to me how using 2 billion more, as the Progress Party has proposed, to get these works out of the job queue, can create inflation. One would think that the bulk of the population was meant to plague most people. For what other advanced reason would there be to increase VAT from 23 to 24 pst.? And why else should VAT be imposed on services from 1 July? Is there an acute lack of money doing this? Does the majority have information about a dwindled state fund that the Progress Party does not know about? What kind of advanced logic is behind the fact that if a hirer hires a private boat yard, you have to pay VAT, but if you are a member of a boat club at neighboring Kaia, you have to avoid paying VAT? And not enough with that. The government and the central comrades, with the Center Party in mind, aim that a family living in Oslo or Kristiansand can go to a amusement park, which is actually a big tivioli, without paying any VAT. On the other hand, the family lives on an island outside Bodø and is going to take a weekend in Bodø with the children to go to Tivoli, and then those budget buddies decided that this family should pay VAT. That makes sense! Water is not water, at least not in the context of VAT, because you buy water from a waterworks, you avoid VAT, i.e. It's not exactly true, because the water comes from the same waterworks, but it's bottled, yes, it's 24 pst. VAT on it. Here's a lot of logic out there and going. These are not unique examples, but part of a wide range of illogical outcomes of the majority of the population's desire to punish the population with their constant self after more and higher taxes. In the 2001 budget, the same majority decided to substantially increase the electricity charge. One of the main reasons for this was that it was terrible that the Norwegian people had received lower electricity prices due to competition in the market. The progress party thinks it is great that competition ensures that the Norwegian people get a lower electricity price. The Progress Party wants people to get the most lower taxes, and therefore we propose a significant reduction in taxes on electricity – for the benefit of most people. Even though the electricity charge is mostly for people, this is not the only tax, tax, or scheme that makes the electricity price high. The property tax is such a tax, as the power companies of course pass on to the consumer. The State’s right of pre-purchase in the event of a fall-back of power plants also helps to raise the price. The Progress Party believes that it is important to achieve international harmonisation of taxes and charges in the power sector. We have also proposed this. For Norway, like the long-term country, and the Norwegian population living here, it is particularly important that the price level of fuel is affordable. It's not today. A price of petrol and diesel for over 10 dollars per year. liters are too high. The progress batch therefore proposes that the fee be reduced, so that the price of the pump should be reduced to approx. NOK 6.50 per month liters. It's a price that will help most people. Not least, there is a price that will be more normal, with the distances and the topography we have, not to mention that the oil that lies below the North Sea and the Barents Sea is the property of the population, and in my view, it won't be exactly unfair if most people got any benefits from these oil resources. The Progress Party proposed a sharp cut in the taxes on passenger cars in the State budget. Unfortunately, it was not one party that supported the Progress Party when this proposal was promoted. In the context of the revised national budget, for the first time in many years, the Right has proposed reduced car charges. Although the reduction is much lower than proposed by the Progress Party, the Progress Party chooses to support this, even though it is actually part of the ordinary budgetary procedure. It is quite incomprehensible that in a long-distance country like Norway, where the car is indispensable, the majority on Stortinget chooses to have some of the world's highest car charges. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2583	When the government adopted its budget for 2001, it had a clear political profile: The Labour Party increased its efforts in important welfare areas such as health, care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. The working party was given a fairer distribution nationally and internationally, with strong redistribution through the tax system, through increased tax on equity income, but relief from the tax on labour income, and also a sharp increase in aid resources. The working party also agreed to a responsible use of oil revenues. It has provided security for work and personal finances for very many people in this country. Yes, even very low leave rates go down. That's good. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that the revised national budget has further strengthened these main priorities. There has been scope in the revised national budget to increase the funds to, inter alia: research, higher education, training institutions, the Rikshospitalet, Glittaklinikken, vessel protection, police and racial security. We do that because we keep the economy in order and do not push the problems and unpaid bills in front of us, as we experienced last year, when there were many, many unpaid bills left after the central government. For the Workers' Party, a better health care system is very high priority. This year we have increased the appropriations by approximately NOK 2.6 billion. Together with the increase in the free income of the local government sector in the budget of the year, the health sector has been reinforced by more than DKK 3 billion. With such an extension, more than ever before will be treated in our hospitals. It's almost incredible that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left take a total of 494 million. from labour market measures to cover their implications in the revised national budget – the batches that claim to be so concerned with distribution and poverty reduction on a daily basis. It is not likely to be more accurate when it comes to taking from the poor than to taking on labour market measures for people with disabilities, measures on which they depend in order to get into work and education and to get a lasting better financial situation. The right side also shows its true face in the setting. Right, kittens, 100 million. kr in the budget of the Swedish Works Agency. This will mean that no measures are taken to combat social security abuse; there will be no measures to increase the number of unemployed persons at work; a nationwide pilot scheme for the transport of disabled persons will disappear. In addition, the floor must cut more than 400 posts, a crew of more than 10 pst. The conclusion is quite clear: there will be no increased bet on reducing sick leave and disability, of which the Right is so concerned. The right way to reduce sick leave is to cut sick pay, so that those who depend on earning their usual monthly pay have to go to work even if they get sick. It's the Right True Face. Right-wing tax relief means less to important welfare services. Each krone a saver in tax relief with the Right, has to pay as an increased price of the school leisure scheme, it becomes less pay if one gets sicker, more expensive collective prices, not free school books in secondary school, etc. All of this can be read directly from the Right's proposal to cut the state budget for this year. Right cutters in the revised national budget also in regional and development grants of 200 million. kr, although they are fully aware that the money has already been distributed this year. The working party, together with the centre parties, has submitted a proposal to grant 20 million. kr for medicines on a blue prescription. Medicine is something The Storting loves to get involved in, both now and before. In this respect, the representatives of big business appear to be real professionals in the field, but we know that this is not the case. Now it's high time the Storting stopped deciding whether the drugs should be called one or the other. We have others who are going to do that job. Therefore, a blank margin of 20 million is promoted. kr to the bladder prescription system without mentioning the name of the medicine. The Minister of Health will take care of that. There are also many ‘free proposals’ in the revised national budget this year, proposals for which a majority may prefer not because there is no coverage. The worst example is perhaps the road allocations that the Center Party went out and flagged in the media. The road tax was to be increased by NOK 2 billion. And what's the result? Well, the result is 70 million. kr for breed protection. Then people outside this house wonder what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2617	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2620	We want to distribute the money fairly so that the weakest get help. Everyone can get sick and need rehabilitation. I have good friends who would not have lived today without a stay at a training institution in a given situation. This sounds dramatic, but life-threatening high blood pressure as well as other serious disorders may be. We have many training institutions, and I would argue that they are all of great importance in terms of treatment and aftertreatment to improve the functioning of many. Major operations or loads over time require intensive training with professional assistance. Many older people have the opportunity to take care of themselves after a stay, and many have been helped to get on their feet and on in life. Many of the training institutions accept more categories of patients and offer different conditions. Some have specialised in one disorder, but also offer other patient groups. Paulsrud, Sofienberg, Steffensrud, Tonsåsen – I could mention many. Everyone has the good offers that help many patients. And women in the district have a job to do and make a social effort. I am pleased with the additional appropriations that are now being revised. The self-payment scheme was modified in favour of patients, but it has resulted in an unintended effect that has worsened the economic situation of some of the institutions. I know that several of them are struggling, many hours are working for a small payment, and the accounts have to be followed carefully from month to month. Yesterday, I met the head of Wolla. Several of the staff have gone through with equity to secure their job. They have increased their competence in cancer care and offer breast cancer-surgery to women. But they're struggling with the economy and using a lot of their cancers at that work. I don't know how many of the institutions have an offer for cancer patients, but I know that Paulsrud has it. These are important offers, relatively close to Gjøvik Hospital, where a cancer unit with increased radiation capacity is now being developed. The Ministry now has a review of the training incentives and their framework conditions. It is important to find a balance point to meet the needs of patients and to enable the institutions to continue this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2635	To put it mildly, it must be said that the infrastructure in Norway is very variable. Compared with many other European countries, road standards are a sad chapter. Decisive governments have totally neglected the expansion of E6 through Østfold, while Sweden has expanded about ten times as long to the four-field motorway. This work, as well as the work on a new Svinesund bridge, will end in 2007, and this is done without toll financing. E6, together with E18 to the South, have a particularly high traffic density, and are heavily burdened by accidents. The situation per person. today is that the road section at times almost breaks down. When the tourist season takes place too fully, with the normal electoral speed of Sweden, and when Norway’s greatest heavy traffic is at the same time rolling on the same road sections, it is not necessary to have a great imagination to understand the problems it creates in order to eliminate traffic on the country’s main road no. 1st@item: inlistbox In the context of the big debate on the national transport plan in February, there was no majority in favour of concrete changes, but, according to Mr Signe Eyee, it has been stated to the media that there will be more money for the route through Eastfold in the years to come. The government appropriations will increase, it's probably raised from the same team. It is also stressed that there is a need for rapid implementation of measures, both in terms of accessibility and not least in terms of road safety considerations. Where have the adequate appropriations been made? Not even an agreement on a 50/50 p.m. distribution of investments on the E18 in Inner Eastfold between the State and the Municipality has been fulfilled. The agreement has been broken. Instead, you push the sorely needed tempo plan to expand far in time. So where is the announced redundancy in the annual budgets, including the revised budget? Here responsibility has to be shown, and therefore the representative proposes to Vidar Kleppe and the undersigned that development start immediately without toll financing. The working group on better communication between Oslo and Gothenburg fires a force-salve against responsible politicians so that they do not take the problems of road through Eastfold seriously. The state road system in Eastfold is certain that more people will lose their lives, especially on E6, before a possible four-field highway is completed once in the future. So far this year, in five months, eleven people have lost their lives on the route through Eastfold counties. Since a four-field E6 was opened in Akershu County, no fatal accidents have occurred. What happens now? While awaiting an initiative from policymakers, a concrete wall is set up between the lanes of parts of the E6. That's the solution you're going to come up with. According to the Econ Centre for Economic Analysis, there will be no pressure in the economy by allocating around NOK 3 billion more to the development of roads in Norway. I just want to say that, as we are promoting a proposal on re-priorities here of SEK 3.3 billion for road purposes. I take up the proposal from Vidar Kleppe and I signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2654	The representative Jørn L. Stang has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2658	I take the floor to comment on two health policy proposals that have been promoted since the referral was submitted. The first proposal was promoted by the representative Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left to grant 20 million. SEK in addition to the adjustment to strengthen the prescription § 9. I find it very satisfactory that this appropriation creates room to include several medicines in the compulsory reimbursement scheme. It may seem like a modest amount in the big context, but it will give room to include, for example: the medicinal products Vioxx and Celebra with effect from 1 July 2001. These are medicines from a health policy point of view that are desirable to include, and that will be of great importance to many arthritis patients and patients with rheumatic disorders. The second case concerns the proposal by the representative of Enoxsen, on behalf of the Centre Party, that no county municipality should be forced to reduce the activities of its county hospital in the second half of 2001 due to excessive economic constraints and that any deficits accumulated in 2001 should be covered in connection with the hospital settlement between the State and the county municipalities. I have a great deal of understanding of the desire to avoid reduced activity in county hospitals. I also believe that the budget adopted in cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, which has now been dealt with in the revised national budget, provides the basis for avoiding it. If this does not prove to be the case, at least it is not because of the decision the Stortinget has just taken to assume responsibility for the hospitals from the next year. We do not yet have an overall overview of the economic development of the county municipalities and their various hospitals so far this year, but there will be close cooperation between the state, the hospitals and the current hospital owners, i.e. counties, in the future, in connection with the transfer of ownership responsibility to the State. As part of this, we will of course follow developments in hospital services very closely and consider any exceptional measures, if necessary. I think it would be a better way to deal with the financial situation of hospitals than on a general basis to adopt a coverage of any future deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2674	President, is that a reason for a line since it's after a government council?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2679	No, not after the three-minute posts. It's just the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2682	We have recently been informed that the economy of several of our regional hospitals is in a fundamental imbalance, which the current owners, the county councils, do not seem to have economic muscles to handle in full. This shows – in the view of the Labour Party – that the 100 pst reform. state ownership and organisation through undertakings promoted and adopted by the Stoltenberg Government in the Storting was most necessary. The fact that each county municipality is too small — almost literally — to carry regional hospitals on its shoulders has become more and more evident. The innumerable visits to large and government from the regional hospitals also earlier when the problems have peaked, just confirm what I am saying here. The year 2001 is exceptional in the sense that county municipalities are preparing to hand hospitals over to the State. In view of this transitional phase of change of owner and in the economic situation in particular the regional hospitals seem to be, I am very pleased with the recent signals from the Minister of Health about a follow-up in this area. If, through this contact, one were to identify a situation that would provide for exceptional measures, including economic ones, it must be assumed that the Government is taking the initiatives that the situation might require. I also refer to our parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solbergs, earlier in today's debate. The Minister for Health commented on proposal No. 121 that Enoch has presented. I just want to say that it would be very perceptive if the Stortinge were to give a blank authorization to all county hospitals to use the means they would like to use, and they would then send the bill to another party, the state. So a brief comment on the question of a new organisational model for a central social and health management, such as: involves the merging of eleven floors. The most important thing is to have strong professional social and health management. The division we have today can lead to an unwanted fragmentation of the trade unions. It can lead to unwanted double work. This may put a barrier to the necessary cooperation and thereby weaken the professional results. Furthermore, it is important that we do not deal with more central bureaucracy than what is professionally desirable and necessary. We should keep in mind that patients are not to be found in corridors either in departments, directorates or similar places. Health, care and social care tasks are growing. This sets requirements for good use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2703	One of the matters currently under consideration is to treat private boating sites in the same way as boat associations, where the latter exempts VAT. It is mildly said that this matter has upset the boat people. Everyone is able to see that this leads to a strong distortion of competition between the boat companies and the private landlords. This injustice is reinforced by the fact that private boat rental operators have made their investments in installations around them without being able to deduct VAT. In many areas the boat users have no choice. They are referenced to rent boat sites by private landlords, which are subject to VAT. However, in cases where the private facilities are side by side with the facilities of the boat associations, prices differ because one is subject to a charge while the other is released. I have to say that this case finds its place in the subsequently referred fauna of almost a little clumsy tax decisions made by the tax parties in this assembly. However, it is not too late, it is possible to convert this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2712	The revised budget submitted by the Government is a confirmation of the willingness of the Labour Party and the Government to call for welfare. Ensuring the health pay system, securing pensions and implementing the elderly reform, the psychiatric and hospital reform and the permanent scheme provide security for individuals and make Norway a good country to live in. But this also requires that we all contribute according to capacity, so that the community can be able to create the necessary basis in terms of economic and social security for the individual. This basis is necessary for individual freedom of choice if the freedom of choice is to apply to all and not only to those who act in a hard market. Public pensions, free hospitals and schools for everyone costs money. That is why we also see the need to secure the Community an economic basis for expanding the desired well-being. Tax policy is an instrument in this way, but it must be used in a fair manner, so that those with high capital incomes and large assets contribute more, while those with low and general labour incomes should be relieved. Both the development of the public sector and a fair tax policy are about a fair distribution, which is the basic principle of the Workers' Party. If the economic basis of the community fails, the option is that welfare goods are produced and financed by other means. Privatisation and higher excesses must necessarily be the answer, in the hospital sector, in the education sector, in the care of the elderly, etc. The danger is that it will give us a society in which a completely different way has to rely on private solutions, such as private health insurance, private pension schemes, etc. This will give us a society of great social and economic differences. It's a society the Workers' Party doesn't want. At the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to a matter that is a little further on the agenda. It's case no. 12, to instruct the Equation Offices to deal with complaints about flat rates. I would like to inform you, while I have the floor, that the Labour Party will vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2725	The working party always addresses the major challenges. The Labour Party also assumes responsibility for the fact that the renewal of the public sector is the way in which our time is to ensure the objective of freedom and security for all. The biggest challenge is to take the right change grips, so that we can tackle the challenges that are coming, and not least take advantage of the opportunities that both new knowledge and new technologies provide. Today, the public sector is faced with the same requirements for renewal as the private sector. After working in industry for many years, I know that changes in the workplace can lead to uncertainty about the future and that, of course, there are questions about whether change and renewal are necessary. There are several examples of business leaders who didn't make the changes needed to meet the challenges, so that jobs were secured. But there are also many business leaders who, in cooperation with the participants, meet the challenges of courage, will and action. It's the same challenge we have in the public sector, and we, as political leaders, need to be evaluated exactly the same way. It is our ability to control development – with courage, will and action – that shows that we take the lead in a forward-looking development in the public sector. The government shows that it takes this responsibility seriously, through a process of many concrete change measures. For the Workers' Party, changes in the public sector are not an objective in itself, but we take seriously that renewal is necessary as a hub to ensure the upsurge of the welfare society, and not least to process what we have inherited. We want a society that also in the future gives security and freedom to everyone. We take seriously that it is a political leadership responsibility to show way into a time when increasing freedom to the individual is a major challenge for the public sector. The freedom we have today to use all available technologies 24 hours a day leads to major changes in society. Work tasks are changed dramatically, and many are no longer in use. But freedom for all is more than daily use of mobile phone, computer and payment card: Freedom is the economic security that full wages under sickness provide. Freedom is to have the right to retire when one is 62. Freedom is to have the right to lifelong learning. Freedom is the right to participate in the workplace. The working party assumes responsibility for putting users' needs in the centre. We take responsibility for transferring resources from administration to service production, and we take responsibility for publicly adding their right to participate in this important matter. The Labour Party takes responsibility for the fact that this renewal is the way in which our time continues to ensure the goal of freedom and security for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2753	On the same day as the government presented revised government budget, the Aetat figures showed that 3,146 workers were unemployed. 1 602 stone and cement workers, 886 civil engineering workers and several hundred other works are now on leave. A machine park worth over 400 million. kr. are now inactive. This is the current situation, and it is shameful that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party will not do the least to remedy the situation, while the road network is screaming for increased maintenance, and a whole series of road projects are half-finished. Norway, which is flooded with oil money, prefers to have skilled road workers in unemployment rather than bet on expanding Europe's worst road network. Seven professional organisations in the civil engineering sector have warned Prime Minister Stoltenberg about the high level of job vacancies in the industry. Even LO says the same thing. Competence goes away, and a valuable engine park just stands and rusts away. That the Workers' Party is failing the road construction, we already know. The working party is only thinking of skinning the drivers for as much money as possible. Today, the total cost is DKK 40 billion per person. years, while for maintenance, operation and road construction, the State provides back only 10 billion kroner. This makes the Workers' Party well supported by the Christian People's Party. In an article in Stortinget on 16 May, the Christian People's Party representative Jan Sahl said: ‘The situation in the construction industry has become more difficult, and it is disclosed that 2000 to 3000 employees have been nominated or terminated. In retrospect, the situation has deteriorated, and LO Industrie has asked the Government to increase the appropriations for installations by at least NOK 2 billion in the context of the revised national budget. The centre lots have long pointed out that there was room for increased transport appropriations.’» Today we get the facts on the table: it is and will be the Progress Party that will bet on a modern infrastructure. We in the Progress Party think it would be better to get the 3,000 people out of work and all the machines going into road construction, and that is why the Progress Party has proposed an extra NOK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2771	In the 2001 draft state budget, the Government took a strong step towards strengthening public welfare and making it the most equal for all. At the same time, we know that without great value creation there will be little to welfare and little to distribution. It was therefore necessary to adhere to the responsible economic framework in order to avoid a large increase in costs, interest rate increases and thus a less competitive business. That was the easy thing to do. Some changes were made in the central budget agreement, but the main lines went on. They are also done in the revision, even after processing here. Within the same responsible framework, however, there is room for strengthening universities; there is more scope for research, the National Hospital, etc. Training institutions are in a difficult situation, where they need a lift. They have an important role in rehabilitation to get people back into work – in line with our policies. The framework for these institutions must therefore be such that they can exist, and their properties must be kept at a level that does not exclude anyone. The extra 25 million. kr they now have a lot to say in a difficult situation. But it is necessary that this be followed up in next year's budget. The Labour Party will vote against a proposal to grant 25 million. kr extra for private schools. We think it's five million. SEK of these that are a reasonable use in support of foreign schools in Norway and Norwegian elephants abroad, etc. at United World College. Otherwise, there is a sharp reduction in taxes and taxes again Right and the Flagship of the Progress Party. No one glimmers over taxes and taxes, the torment could be anybody's money. Of course, it's popular. However, many will have better welfare arrangements, better communication, better local economy, more agriculture, and even better supply in all areas. Is it possible for a man to ignore the need for money for this? Then there is a question about the amount of taxes and taxes you will need. There must be consistency between public expenditure and revenue — as simple as that. Right will fund tax relief unless public welfare for all of us – less sick pay, less district and industrial support and less assistance. The NSB shall give up. Farming shall be reduced. Labour market measures must be reduced. Retirement to school and leisure arrangements shall be reduced. Lower tax, yes, but will we pay such a price? Should welfare be for everyone, or should we build down Velferds-Noreg to make the best advice for those who are richest anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2786	There has once again been a debate in connection with the review of the audit on the school leaving at Police College. The reason for the debate is that over the course of several years, the Storting has managed the admission to school so that there have been a greater number of graduates than the number of job vacancies that naturally leave this school every year. The size has so far ensured that the take-off coal has been given the jobs they should have – which Norway needs and is served with – because we have wanted a greater number of policemen. In this context, claims have now been made that up to 250 of the 425 in the coal will be out of work. The Left Group has found it right to ask again for information from the Government – and the Government has previously also provided information in the proposition – and in this context we note that it is the Government's assessment that approx. 250 jobs will be available in jobs that will become available from now on and until September at the latest, so that there will be approximately one remaining job. 175 who don't have a job. According to the experience gained in recent years in which large-scale coal has been taken in, and following decisions taken in the Grand Duchy in connection with the revised national budget, the additional appropriations entered in the financial committee's decision-making will be able to give jobs to some. Ninety-nine. That leaves 85. If you also take into account that the Financial Committee – the great joy of the Left – has created a long-standing project to combat serious organised crime, with 30 posts, we are close to a number of 50-80 candidates who will not immediately get a job. The left assumes that the government is following this so closely that these policemen are not going without work, and that, if necessary, they are actually coming back into the effusion for this year, so that they can be secured for people in the street. There's no doubt that it's what it's crucial when we first have so much coal. And so, according to the knowledge that we all have, that the admission to the high school of police for the hill that comes next year is roughly the equivalent of the departure you have then; so after you've stepped up, you've adapted the situation. But the Left places great emphasis on the government following this closely, so that this estimated figure, according to the information we have received from Minister of Justice Harlem today, approx. 80 candidates, don't walk without a job, make sure they get a job, if necessary come back in connection with the new aging. The reason I emphasize it so strongly is that the Prime Minister himself is very busy getting policemen out in the streets. He's right enough to say that it happens by merging police districts. It's with respect not to report the way it happens. It may produce results in the long term. The short-term effect is that these students are followed up in the way we recommend here, and by providing career paths and status rewards for police officers doing field work in the street. That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2794	Earlier this week, Stortinget debated St.meld. No 27. A significant level of quality shall be made available for the higher education sector and for the university sector, so that Norway can be at the forefront of competence. There is a great deal of agreement in this house. State Council Geske could not answer my questions about what it means when the Government said in the Communication that the quality reform could be implemented within existing budgetary frameworks. Is the budget proposed last autumn by the Labour Party Government or is the adjusted budget put forward by the Centre Parties by 400 million? kr i plus? I would like the Minister of Finance's answer to that question. I remember that 400 million. kr was very necessary, even if it is not enough to help the sector. In today's setting, there will be an additional 100-million increase. kr for recruitment positions and for necessary conversion processes. This comes in a little special light, I think, when the prime minister instead pushed the gain the government had put into the big reform, and he knows that it is actually the Stortinget that has increased the budget lines for higher education. The center party has taken it seriously that the conversion costs, both in the form of fresh money and willingness to change. The size also means that the Research Fund will have a significant increase of 2.5 billion so that it can become more researchable through increased returns. Another area of training is the municipal music and cultural schools. It is sad that there is no majority to increase the hourly rate — it has been silent for many years — this would have meant that more students could participate in these unique offers. Furthermore, it is petty that the public schools could not get an increase of 10 million. kr. The centre party believes it is important to maintain this school team as an oasis in the educational flora. It is precisely in such areas of education policy that there is a clear distinction between the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Party. We don't want an A4 model without variation. There is a need for diversity to give young people choices, and public schools have a unique offer. Many believe that the year at public high school was the best they have ever had. The majority of the size is obviously not so concerned about it. Fortunately, the Church of Deaf receives 700,000 grants, because they are in a precarious budgetary situation, but the Workers' Party and SV will not be involved. I'm amazed at that, as I perceive these parties as very concerned with the disabled. Furthermore, I find that the University of Nesna does not receive any grants for construction start, and that's a pity, because there's a very difficult situation. Luckily, the high school of vets gets $2 million. Thanks to the Stortinget. I noticed that the representative Rudihagen brought out the training centres as very important for rehabilitation. That's good. But I think it's a little bold when the same representative goes out and says that this happens using the Workers' Party. On the contrary, that addition was not prioritised by the Workers' Party, but by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2817	The majority recently decided to grant the Rikshospitalet an additional grant of 270 million. kr for the current operating semester. That's good. The economic situation of regional hospitals is at least as difficult as that of the Rikshospitalet. Regional hospitals have cut off their services, but will still suffer significant losses. It is absolutely necessary that a revised national budget allocates more funds to regional hospitals and county municipalities so that they can use the treatment capacity of hospitals to bring down the long patient queues. The Progress Party promoted a Document No. Proposal for an additional budget of DKK 1 billion for domestic treatment in public hospitals. Unfortunately, the proposal only received the votes of the Progress Party. That is why I would like to comment on proposal No. 121 from the Centre Party, which estimates that deficits accumulated in 2001 based on the usual hospital activity will be covered in the hospital settlement between the State and the county municipalities. It is regrettable that the Center Party has only now discovered that there has been a long-standing economic crisis in Norwegian hospitals. Or is it today's gallop that's the cause of the central party's cozy spin? The last time I saw a similar reverse operation was last autumn, when the Workers' Party had gallups of about 20 p.m., and as a result they reduced the fuel tax in order to try to behave crediblely and trick the voters' trust again. Workers' Party representative Dag Terje Andersen said in his statement earlier today that he was pleased that the Workers' Party, Centre and Right would increase the grant to the training institutions by 25 million. kr. Obviously, it does not take much to please Andersen's representative. Twenty-five million. There is no joy among the training institutions and patients in this country. It is a fact that most institutions are struggling economically and that there is an urgent need to give more money. Why no more parties are following the Progress Party here and are agreeing to allocate 108.5 million. kr, as we have suggested, is completely incomprehensible to me. The outcome of the drug addiction policy at the forefront of the Workers’ Party is that many hospitals and training institutions need to close down and reduce patients’ treatment. I am pleased that there are elections soon, so that the voters and patients will have their say about the Workers' Party – say their opinion about the lack of health policy for which the Workers' Party is the head of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2828	In this position, the majority of the Committee of Finance has clearly had only one purpose in mind, namely to ensure the so-called balance of the budget. It's quite incomprehensible to me that it's e.g. it is not possible to create a majority in order to get 3,000 unemployed workers into productive work instead of leaving them unemployed and receiving social security. The figures are Aetat's own, and we know that in addition, most of the heavy equipment that the plant industry disposes of is inoperative. It must be socio-economically unprofitable. We are not talking here about emergency work, but about the implementation of major road and rail projects, which are planned and ready to start, and which, when implemented, will make a positive contribution to productivity in Norway. We have the money, we have the workforce, and we have the machines. Nevertheless, the majority chooses to allow this competent workforce to go free, and an entire industry is defused in the name of the budget balance sheet – a balance sheet that is really nothing more than that some in the Ministry of Finance have thought of a figure. There can't be anyone who really believes that it creates more pressure in the economy to let people do useful work than let them go inactive and receive a daily allowance. The fact that, in addition to the fact that it is involved in losing an important industry that we will in the future most need, too highly skilled labour, makes this extra tragic. I am aware that many have addressed this issue today. When I also choose to do that, it is because it shows how wrong it can be when you do as the majority has done in this matter, and commit to the mast, in the sense that the budget balance becomes sacred, and prevents good and sensible action for purely formal reasons. It is also not possible to comment on this setting without mentioning the really large revision number, namely the VAT reform. There is a major reform, which will affect a lot of individuals and industries, and which now, just 14 days before the introduction, has begun to be clarified. There are a wide range of difficult boundaries for which there is still considerable political disagreement. And the industries that are affected must despair. So far, the reform is largely just to the delight of Norwegian revisionists, but they have a lot to rejoice about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2839	Norway is a maritime nation, and shipping and maritime industry is one of the economic areas where it facilitates the development of nutrient clusters. In this context, the maritime sector is also one of the areas that is intended to increase research efforts, which will be an important prerequisite for maintaining and developing Norway’s position as a maritime nation. Maritime offshore activities and shipping in and out of Norway are an important contribution to future value creation. Norwegian seafarers have a good reputation and stand for both competence and responsibility. As the shipping industry is highly internationalised, it is difficult for Norway to have a different framework than for the countries with which we compete. Our ferry companies, Fjord Line and Color Line, are struggling today with conditions that are worse than our neighbouring countries. The wage costs of these two companies are approx. 35-40 pst. higher than for Danish and Swedish competitors. Denmark has a net pay scheme for ferries added at Nordic speed. The Ministry of Industry is working to identify what measures are needed. The Industry Committee is aware that the maritime environment is very positive about the signals provided by the Department. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is appropriate to consider reimbursement arrangements within the framework of a total shipping policy. The objective must be to provide schemes enabling industry to undertake long-term planning. It is difficult for the shipping industry to deal with a situation where changes in the framework conditions are being made each year. The revised national budget states that the Government will draw up a proposal for different measures ensuring more equivalent conditions for Norwegian ferries. The treatment of the revised national budget refers to the approval of the Government’s proposal and to the fact that it is a matter of interest to the Storting. It is a good citizen of the future Norwegian maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2854	The contribution of Norwegian shipping to the external trade balance was DKK 70 billion last year. When Sweden implemented the entire EU-recommended framework of competition in May this year, it cost a total of 1.3 billion kroner, old and new schemes included. It corresponds to a reimbursement aid of 30,13 pst. The scheme enters into force in the middle of the financial year, and in Sweden the Riksdag considered it risky to wait until the new financial year. None of our shipping companies except the shipping companies have threatened to fly out, they just do it as it becomes necessary. When it is no longer possible to obtain crews for a Norwegian-manned North Fleet, they can first choose to move to NIS. However, for Norwegian vessels in NIS, a minimum crew of Norwegian seafarers is premised. And we are already in the situation that there is a derogation from the Norwegian crew requirement, simply because there are not enough seafarers to recover. The next step is to switch to another flag state. So in less than ten years we can stand not only without a northern fleet, but also with a NIS register without Norwegian crews and without maritime competence on land. Then the Norwegian flag on the sea is reduced to a flag of convenience, and the Norwegian era as one of the world’s leading shipping nations will be irrevocable. The day the history of Norwegian shipping in the twentieth century is to be written, with the shameful treatment of Norwegian seafarers after the last war, in the last half of the century, and when the history of the closure of Norwegian shipping at the beginning of the twenty-first century is to be written, the decisions of this maggot may have a central place. Then no one can say that the Storting did not know what it did. It is the Spanish disease that the Prime Minister warned against in his New Year's speech, but which his government is now directing us right into, without the will of the Stortinge to do anything about it. It doesn't keep giving companies good tax dollars, they can get it anywhere. It is the competence environment that keeps the shipping companies' headquarters here, and many shipping companies are beginning to have problems acquiring the maritime professional competence that any good shipping company depends on. When it no longer exists here, yes, the head offices are moved, and only the mailboxes remain. Sweden did not dare to wait until a new fiscal year. How can Norwegian politicians who call themselves responsible wake up? We have had a budget debate here today that has been an incredible controversy between our political leadership about who has said what – a quote crane, an election campaign that could fit in a student society, but not in the Norwegian big business. I think our political leadership should be pleased that few voters have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2869	The revision of the budget this year has taken place without the great drama. That's good. In this budgetary procedure, too, the central parties have shown that one takes responsibility. Of the areas we prioritised, I would particularly like to say that there will be multiple numbers for more resources for testing and testing, and to make the roads safer by the enhanced access to racial protection. Unfortunately, there is no plurality to allow the Ministry to present its work on the town tunnel project, which has to do with safety along the coast. As case no. 9 on Document No The 8th proposal to prevent the companies that come under the VAT system from paying an investment tax from 1 July, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that it was possible to get a single committee behind this submitted. This will be of great help to many small enterprises, which thereby avoid engaging in and practicing the very complex and complex regulatory framework for this charge, as the Storting has also decided to depart from April next year. I want to mention suggestion No. 30, from the Right, on an evaluation of the value added tax reform’s impact on rental cars – this will have something to say for the sale of electric cars. I would like to ask the Right to convert this to a forwarding proposal. There was one person who said to me at the restaurant this afternoon that I should not try a summary after 16 years as a member of the Stortinget in a three-minute post. I'm not going to do that either. But in the last post that I have as a representative for big business, I would like to express my gratitude for the points of view I have been given in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2882	Initially, I just want to say that I hope this won't be my last post in this room. But who knows when the voters have spoken? I'm going to go a little bit into what's going on with drugs and the possibility of bladder replication, and also what's going on with training institutions. Some articles that have been kept here today, I have to admit simply make me dull. The representative Gravdahl stood on this pulpit for a little while back and talked about the bet on the gyms, about the amazing $25 million. kr that you had found space to strengthen them. This is not to strengthen the training institutions, this is to boost them. In reality, it's only 16.5 million. NOK, because you had added a self-proprietary application from NOK 190 to NOK 220 that you have removed. So the actual increase for the training institutions is actually 16.5 million. kr and not 25 mill. kr. So a little bit about the drugs. It's a shame that we push chroniclers and other sick people in front of us to keep the sacred budget balance. The medicines Vioxx and Celebra are still not on a blue prescription despite a recommendation from the National Medicines Agency. The Minister for Health said that with the proposal from the majority, it could be accepted from 1 July. That does not match the estimate sent to me by the Minister for Health. Because that's saying it's $30 million. kr. So you're not fair either in one area or the other in terms of the sums. Another issue is Remicade and Enbrel for the reumatists. Are we really supposed to be so petty in this room that we don't make sure that those who need these drugs get access to the best medicines available? We are one of the richest nations in the world, and yet the majority of this will not be able to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party to give 100 pst. reimbursement of both of these medicinal products in an input-driven funding in hospitals. Why? Why should we push this group in front of us and not help these people who are already struggling with their disease? With asthma medicine Singulair, there's still nothing going on. The cortisone-free asthma medicine is waiting. Other countries have got it into their reimbursement system, while one of the world's richest countries is waiting. We don't have money. Sometimes you get tired and desperate. I feel sorry for the sick in this country, but I am glad it is soon a choice, because they have their voice in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2899	In this debate on tax burdens, tax relief and taxes, I would also like to mention a few issues affecting people who are struggling with sickness and suffering. They don't need tax relief, they need help. I also believe that rehabilitation is very important for many people to be able to cope with everyday life or to be able to be in a job. In this context, we have good offers, both public and private. In fact, the Labour Party believes that private training institutions are a very important complement to public services, and they are important for improving the effectiveness of hospitals. I have visited over half of the 40 training sessions myself. Throughout this ageing period, these institutions have been struggling with the economy, and they have lacked sufficient predictability of their operations. So I'm glad that in this setting there are suggestions for additions that mean that the increases in the percentages of users can be avoided, and that there may be an increase in the rate of curing. But I'm concerned that some of the training institutions will still have to struggle with poor performance. Among other things, I have had contact with the spa in Tromsø, Vikersund Kurbad, The Training Centre in Salangen, Hokksund Kurbad, Skibotn-centre etc. All report low performance compared to the costs they incur to ensure good quality of treatment. I am aware that the Department is working on new rules and funding arrangements for these institutions, and I think that is very good. It's time we got it now! It is important that this is related to the 2002 budget and that it is designed to give institutions the predictability they have so far lacked. However, I'm somewhat concerned that some of these may have problems with the operation for the rest of the year, and I'm afraid that a difficult economy can go beyond quality. I would therefore ask the Government to follow this closely and, if necessary, to put in place measures to ensure the future of these training institutions. This is too important to run election campaigns and surrender policies, as the Progress Party does. But it needs to be done and clarified in a dialogue with the institutions and with the user groups. I am not in favour of the Storting operating with some kind of prior approval of new medicines on the bladder prescription system, as it has tended to. However, I would say that a goal must be to ensure that users have the best medicine available with the least side effects in order to improve the quality of life. This also has socio-economic significance. So I'm glad we're making 20 million. I hope that these gout drugs and asthma medicines will be evaluated in the context of the 2002 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2916	There is today a screaming need to do something about the roads around the country. The road standard is very poor in many places, and the need for both racial protection and maintenance is great. We know, among other things: that, at the end of the year, the maintenance sector will be lagging behind. €9.5 billion In addition, many communities, both small and large, are also awaiting the implementation of new facilities. When we know that there are over 3,000 unemployed in the construction sector, and that 80 pst. the engine park is ineffective due to a lack of work, it is alarming that the bulk of the waste does not take this seriously. And let me add: I don't think so many of the works go into the care profession, as some think should happen. I think a lot of people have chosen a profession based on interest, and then they jump from running heavy plant machinery to work in the care profession. The trend for major road sector loopholes and the recognition of the situation in the civil engineering sector was the direct reason why the Senterpartie proposed to increase the road sector’s loopholes by DKK 1 billion in the revised national budget. This sum would divide the Centre Party into maintenance, racial protection and a little bit to investment. At voting later today, it looks like there'll be more than 70 million. kr for breed protection. Of course, I am glad that there will be extra funds for road construction, but the majority in this room seems to accept that several thousand works are available. Support for the Centre's proposal would give many of the unemployed workers new work, and we had been able to continue the skills in this workbook. This competence may now be lost. After the opinion of the Centre Party, it would be good policy to invest in the road sector. This would create employment and lasting values for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2929	I'm going to try to have a little summary at the bottom of this accumulation period. In my opinion, it has been an incredibly interesting experience to get into the Storting and get all the strange decisions we've managed to agree on in this room. One of the strangest decisions was the ban on personal watercraft. It says in the setting that this is a tool that is used for pleasure driving, so we cannot allow that to be used. So the whole thing decides that you shouldn't be allowed to have the fun! I've said it before in this room, but it was one of the strangest things. Another thing that has been a little hard for me to understand is that if it burns down a house on an island of 400 meters, those who live there will not be allowed to build it up again. There may have been people living on that island for thousands of years. This is because of the Beach Zone Act. I have experienced that the entire fishing industry has been turned into cellar rings. I have experienced that we have given the Ministry of Fisheries the authority to implement administrative improvements at the discretion of the administration, where the administration is legislative, executive and judicial. When you're going to go to court, the court has to judge the Storting, and that's not the case. It's just like the Kinder-Egg advertisement. One is doomed to lose. I've experienced other negative things. The post is largely closed. Of the positive things I want to point out, we've managed to get everyone to hear radio in the Barents Sea, all the way to Newfoundland and Novaja Semlya. That's of the positive things. We've been arranged with funds to look for dead people at sea, and we've further ensured that the Loran C station at Bø is still in operation, at least if the big bang that's coming still stands by what's being adopted today. We have gained an increased understanding of the importance of ensuring safety on the coast. We have started a debate that I believe has contributed quite strongly to. What is important in the future is to ensure everyone's well-being, to ensure that natural resources benefit the people and are not sold abroad, and then to send the money after. We need good schools and colleges, and in this respect I will refer to proposal No. 3, which relates in particular to the Nesna High School. I have to say as it says in the rules of the mountains: it is no shame to turn around, either for the Right or for the Labour Party, and vote in favour of that proposal. The political parties stand between the state and the people. We are at full speed into the field of civil servants. The people don't get in touch with the politicians, they're like a buffer between the people and the state. My speaking time is up, and I would like to say that I am addressing the proposals I have made together with others in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2952	The representative of Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2956	I'm glad we're getting an increase in what we're going to invest in in the future: knowledge and competence. In university areas, they need much more money, but there is also a need for a major new online reform, and there is also a need for a little reorganization. I must say that when I hear the centre party here today boasting that they have been involved in increasing the fund's fund for research, I shall only be happy for it, since they voted against the whole fund two years ago. But we're going to forget what's not so good, and then we're going to care about what's important, and that's that fund capital is increasing. I would like to say a little bit about our marbles that need new buildings in connection with Bastisen's articles. It's not just in the Nesna, but in many different places in Norway – I don't need to frame them all up – that it's now important to have new buildings for the hills. And that's why I thought I'd vote for $1 million. kr to Nesna is just to send a greeting home, because that doesn't mean anything to the highlight of the Nesna. What matters to the Nesna High School is that Statsbyggen is told that they will continue to work, so that one can realize this building as necessary. So when the Labour Party says no to this, it's assumed that we're going to do what we've prioritised before, simply build it out, but I assume and assume that this comes back to the ordinary budget with proper promises. This also applies to a number of other spheres, because it is too expensive not to maintain these spheres, not to extend them. It just means that one has to rent into other locals that may be even more expensive. This is why the state is listening to a force to upgrade and expand the high-globular spheres that are prioritized by the Storing, and there are high-pitched spheres in Nesna, Stavanger, Eastfold and Bergen. But to stand at 1 million. kr to such a high school building, I thought I was too tulted. So here one just has to be on top of it, and it has to be state-building.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2970	Proposal No. 117 shall enable NTNU to sell a plot to the Student Association in Trondheim, so that the 300 student housing plans can be realised. The visit of the Church, Education and Research Committee to Trondheim has triggered the proposal. The Storting has said that the state and the municipality have to do more to build more student housing. In this case there is a state land, owned by NTNU, to be sold and ready for such construction. Coordination will build but did not reach the highest price competition. I have asked the Council of State if this is the case, and the Council of State answers indicate that a decision is needed in the Stortinget to enable NTNU to sell to the company, which was about 20 pst. below the maximum price. Proposal No. 117 is not a requirement for NTNU to sell to interaction, but allows it to happen. In reply to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's question No. 273 informed Brustad State Council that the departments are now going through the disposal instructions, such as: housing issues and local community considerations may be addressed by the sale of state property. Yesterday, the majority dealt with a matter of its own on the same principle. The government proposed that the claim for a market price should be waived in the case of the property Birkelid in the municipality of Songdalen. The government found that there was the most social benefit of this, even though the price was only 20 pst. of the fare. It was a majority on the Stortinget agreed. After frequent treatments with a lot of positive willingness to build more student homes, I hope that today there is a willingness to contribute to something more concrete. Trondheim Student Council has today taken the following decisions on this matter: «Trondheim Student Council believes it is very unfortunate if NTNU's plots at Rosenborg are sold without taking into account the construction of student housing.Trondheim Student Council believes it is important for Trondheim's status as a good city of study that the coverage of student housing is increased.» The Student Council then calls for the proposal to be supported. I hope that the Workers' Party wants the solution that the students in Trondheim are asking for. I know that the Minister of Finance is familiar with the matter, and I would like to ask: If a separate case has to be submitted to the Storting in order to make an exception, will a transmission of the proposal available here be sufficient for the Government to cause the sale to be postponed until the decision is taken? For the sake of order: if the Workers' Party so wishes, the decision may now be taken. Then it will be the same majority as in yesterday's case on the same topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2994	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e2997	Some information with which the size should be known. I have been informed by the Norwegian Bank that the representative of the bank decided at its meeting on 14 June to set up a separate cash management company, subject to the Ministry of Finance's response to the presentation of the question of cash management clearance on 18 January of this year, on which the Stortinget is informed through the revised national budget. The Bank has also informed that the interest from other banks in participating in such a cash-management company is so large that in the event the company may be established with a holding of more than 1/3 of the Bank of Norway at the outset. From Export Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance have just been informed that one of the central international rating agencies has downgraded Export Finance with effect from 12 June. The downgrading has been made according to new guidelines in this credit rating agency, which was announced on 5 June. At the same time, export finance has informed that a state holding of 15 p.m. could help to ensure that the export finance rating is not further downgraded. Such a downgrading of the rating would affect export finance" borrowing costs and could therefore also affect the price of a 15 pst. ownership interest in Export finance. A State holding as proposed still needs to be expected to contribute to a lower borrowing cost for export finance. However, it could be useful to assess the price of a 15 pst. the holding of ownership. The revised national budget points out that there is considerable uncertainty about the proceeds from the one-off income from the grant of concessions and the sale of Oslo Børs. It has since become clear that a substantial part of the revenue from nationwide advertising television will be generated over several years. In addition, the Storting's examination of proposals for amending the Breeding Act implies that the price per year. the concession for the rearing of salmon and trout will not be set at more than 5 million. kr. Overall, this suggests that disposable income is likely to be slightly lower than budgeted in 2001, although there is still considerable uncertainty about the overall revenue this year. The Ministry of Finance will return with updated revenue estimates in the context of the 2002 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3010	The issue that may have created the most dramatic during this four-year period is the issue of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The last treatment of the Storting was on 7 March 2000, and for those who remember, it was as well known two days before the Bondevik government was killed on the gas power case. The Bondevik government was supported by a minority in the choice of builder on Fornebu. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party – also popularly known as the HedOp Alliance in the media, after Hedstrøm and Opseth – decided that IT Fornebu, also known as the grouping of shipowners Fred. Olsen, was to be given the assignment, but with clear assumptions and leads about the progress and content of the project. Not least, there were clear leads from the bulk of the population to ensure the IT, knowledge, research, development and innovation part of this project. After this last visit to Stortinget, one of many, the work has been further handled by the government of Stoltenberg on the basis of the Storing decisions. In the last few days, uncertainty has arisen as to whether the project is progressing in such a large number. In the last week, it has become known that two central board members from the research communities have withdrawn from the IT Fornebu board. The Minister of Local Affairs confirmed yesterday that there are problems with progress in the project in a letter to the Left's Grossingsgruppe. And there is uncertainty about whether the research and innovation part of the project is being fulfilled according to the intentions. Then there has been a letter from the company IT Fornebu this afternoon, where it is threatened with legal proceedings if it is not paid by the state “NOK 218 151 000”, as it says, by 25 June 2001. It is in itself a matter for the Storting to stop by, in a final debate like this. But let me say that if this letter is relevant to the present proposal, proposal No. 120, it is insinuated by the company that, as the majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party – the Storting’s assumption is not complied with by IT Fornebu. Even more important, then, is proposal No. 120, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the representative Vidar Kleppe and the representative Steinar Bastesen, are adopted to ensure that the Stortinge's clear assumptions about innovation, research and education are respected, so that not only is the result a profitable property project for some investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3023	Right view of the lobby product IT Fornebu is well known. We were against the state being involved on the owner's side; we wanted to sell out these plots. The majority of the population chose to overrun the Bondevik government, as Sponheim said, two days before it chose to leave. The same government did not choose to put its foot down on 7 March, which, of course, it had had occasion to – and this had not been a current issue. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has now sent a letter to the Stortinget with information on the status per year. today. To put it this way: it's interesting to read what the undersigned said one year ago, and to what extent it matches the actual situation at the depressed and partially dedusted aerodrome. What's worth asking questions about today is the relationship mentioned in a letter that came to the Presidentship of the Storting, dated June 15, where there's actually a threat that if not 242 million. kr is paid, it becomes a legal afterplay. I assume – of course – that the government has taken into account what the majority of the population decided. Now it's like we have a labor party government, and since it was the Alliance Workers' Party/Fremskritt party that forced this through, I assume that they are doing their own thing to live up to the airy and visionary remarks they themselves have made in the pen. Because when I read today the position on the matter we dealt with on 7 March last year, and it has been discussed in the context of revised dreams, I have to say that I think it fits very well. What I'm very interested in is knowing from some government representative who has something to do with it, or who can acquire the knowledge within a reasonable time – and that is, before the debate is over – is the following: Is it so that the assumptions of the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, led to a total grant of 400 million. kr until the project at Fornebu is taken care of? Or is it the case that an agreement has been concluded that is irreversible, ‘even if there should be a change in circumstances’, as the letter from the comrades of IT Fornebu states?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3034	In fact, I cannot fail to say a few words relating to proposal No. 120, to defer payment of share capital to IT Fornebu. We have received today, as two speakers before me, a letter from IT Fornebu saying that the State, through SIVA, which represents the interests of the State, at the ordinary general meeting of IT Fornebu on 13 March this year, subscribed for shares in the company with a total of NOK 242,390,000. The amount shall be settled by cash payment, of which 10 pst. has already been paid up. In the response given by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to the V/Lars Sponheim Storingsgruppe – it is untamed, but I think it came either yesterday or today – it is said that so far, per. Today, it's 17.6 million. kr used for holdings in IT Fornebu AS and 24,3 million. kr for holdings in IT Fornebu Eiendom AS. The remaining 218 million. kr shall be used according to plan for the purchase of new holdings in IT Fornebu Eiendom AS – and it shall be stated in brackets: per. 25 June 2001. There is therefore no consistency between the information provided in the Government's reply and that provided in the letter sent to us by IT Fornebu today, where it is said that a share subscription has already been made. What I want to do is what I want to do. Of course, it is interesting to know whether or not commitments have been entered into, or whether it is as the Council of State says, that it is to be used for the purchase of holdings. And then I take as a matter of course, like the two previous speakers, that Storting's assumptions are being met. In this way, that proposal should be relevant. Earlier in the debate, the Prime Minister said that there was no intention of improving health services by making better use of equipment in hospitals. The Prime Minister said that there are examples of equipment used only a few hours a week, and now a hospital reform is being carried out to improve the use of equipment. The most important reason why a large part of the equipment around our many hospitals is used little is that we have spread settlements, and we have a spinning patient base in many of the local hospitals, which means that a good part of the equipment needed to have emergency facilities in the hospitals is used for a few hours a week. In the light of the Prime Minister’s statements, it would have been interesting to hear – now I see that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health have gone – whether this equipment should be better used, and in the case of how it is intended to be done. There is only one way to make better use of this equipment and it is to have fewer hospitals with this type of equipment. This will increase the patient base, and thus also increase its use. It might be interesting to hear if that's what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3049	Like the three previous speakers, I see the need to make IT fornebu a little visit. In itself, this is a very special case with a special story also here in Stortinget. In particular, a project that initially found only four people wise has been adopted by the Norwegian Grand Prix. Two of them sat here, unfortunately. The other two were Per Morten Vigtel and Fred. Olsen. It has now been adopted, but it has been adopted with a number of very special leads. The letter we have received today from IT Fornebu is very special, in the sense that it may seem that the assumptions made by the Stortingen have not been followed. There is also reason to note the following: neither SINTEF nor BI, both of which have been central institutions in the establishment of IT Fornebu, now, as I am told, want longer to sit on the board and have withdrawn, which means that the piece that the majority has been the most important, namely the piece of knowledge and innovation, is obviously severely weakened. What remains then, it is basically up to the minister to answer. If it really is that the Storting will spend several hundred million dollars on a project that remains only as a real estate project, the Storting minority has unfortunately got their apprehensions confirmed. That means that someone from the Government has to solve this question: Is it really that this project has changed so much in relation to the assumptions of the Storting? It's very special that a company comes up with these kinds of threats to the Stortinget, about legal proceedings. If the Government has concluded an agreement with this company that is not in line with Stortingen's assumptions, it means, according to the letter, that you have approx. ten days to get this in order. If it doesn't work out, we have a very special situation. I would very strongly urge the responsible ministers who had to be present in this House to examine this matter as quickly as possible, before this debate is closed. Let me also briefly touch on a proposal from the SV that has been posted to the Chamber today, which I would like to ask my co-representatives to strongly consider. It is the proposal to maintain an independent biotechnology title. The majority of the population will take a decision today to bring together these key health and social policy institutions. The Register of Cancer is contained here by an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. But the subject of biotechnology has thus been established on the assumption that it should be independent. The whole point of the Biotechnology topic is that it should have an independent character in relation to governments, in relation to magnification, in relation to government – in relation to decision-making powers. If you now choose to place the Biotechnology name under the state agency that the majority here wants, it is very unfortunate in relation to the mandate Stortinget has wanted the Biotechnology topic to have. My heartfelt appeal, therefore, is that the bulk of the population – especially the Workers' Party and the Advance Party – think carefully about whether this is really wise, for the subject of biotechnology, Stortinget has had its own opinion, namely that it should be independent from not least this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3064	Let me start by agreeing with the last part of Djupedal's contributions, and also pointing out that in the position of the Financial Committee, there is a comment on the Council of Technology, which is a parallel body to the subject of biotechnology. It is a majority comment that points out that the Storting has asked the Government to make a proper statement on the proposals put forward by the Government to amend its statutes and composition. These two bodies are both set up to be independent, critical bodies, and it is quite essential that they remain so. I listened to the Prime Minister's speeches earlier in this debate with great interest. He showed a touching concern for the problems of other parties, and that is almost heroic in the situation he himself is. But if you could allow that, you could perhaps, after hearing the Workers' Party's speakers in this debate, give a never-ending piece of advice back: it might be wise to put a little less of the schoolmaster's tombs in the admonitions of the Norwegian people about what's best for the people. IT Fornebu has been a repeater during this ageing period, and it is quite special that the case reappears on the last day of the period. It seems clear that we, who have been critical all the way, especially to the most visionary part of the project IT Fornebu, unfortunately seem to be getting right. If this were to end with a legal dispute that the government has settled in relation to those who have always been drivers to get the Storting to buy airy visions, it would be a confirmation that the project has always been without foundation. These are also arguments that have led to the fact that this is a gigantic future project for Norwegian research and technology development. It turns out that this has been just as airy as one has always had the impression of when the matter has been dealt with here in Stortinget. I hope that it is clarified how the Government assesses the situation that has arisen through the letter that came during the day, and how the Government assesses the potential conflict here. It is also worth remembering that this is the most striking example of what the alliance between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party is capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3077	First a few words about the aggregation of state health management. There it has worked for the Progress Party in negotiations with the Workers' Party to maintain the Cancer Register as an independent body, and I am very pleased about that. Their obligation to report to the Radium Hospital is fully in line with the work and development of the Cancer Registry. I cannot in any way compare the Biotechnology topic with the Cancer Register in this context, and we will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal to withdraw the Biotechnology topic. What I really took the floor for was proposal No. 121, from the Center Party, which is more than wonderful. I do not know whether the centre party, because of the gallupeon that exists, has simply gone into shock, or has been so frustrated and stated that it has crossed the so-called centre wall and arrived at this proposal. When the representative of Enoxsen in his main post performed to say that the Centre Party, and perhaps others, first became aware of the difficult economy of the regional hospitals after the financial position had been given, I begin to wonder if one is really awake an hour, and I wonder if the representative of Enoxsen has been in communication with his own representative in the social committee. Already at the revised national budget last year when we dealt with the hospital proposal, St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, all of us had to know that the situation we now have at the regional hospitals would come. Then, in November, we received a decision of NOK 1 billion for treatment abroad because we would not grant money to Norwegian hospitals domestically, and as if that were not enough, we had a Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party to grant 1 billion kroner for domestic treatment for a month’s time back. It was clearly not observed that the Norwegian hospitals not only had their economy, but they actually had capacity that was unused. And then it is proposed that the financial committee should be set up, when the work of the Financial Committee had ample opportunity either to promote its own proposals for allocation by the Centre Party, or to go into some of the other proposals for funding which were there, including: from the Party of Advancement, on approx. DKr 1.1 billion. But what is tragic about this proposal is, and I must admit that: the Progress Party cannot vote against this proposal for the benefit of patients waiting in line, both at regional hospitals and at other hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3087	A few comments on the justice sector. A few weeks ago, extra funds were granted to the courts. The review of the revised national budget now strengthens the criminal justice system and the police and officers' seat. I want to underline this, and I am pleased with this marking of the whole criminal case chain. There has been a discussion of the possibilities for completed high school police students to get work within the department based on additional appropriations in the revised national budget for this purpose. It was also affected by Dørum’s representative. Based on the estimates the department has contributed, it is my view that most people will have a job vacancy to go to, and that additional leave and appropriations on other items will allow everyone to get a job offer within a relatively reasonable time. Then we have the opportunity to come back to the autumn when you have a more accurate knowledge of status, and make sure that you can make use of police-trained personnel. So some comments on the proposals of the Progress Party that are distributed in the hall, comments that go more in shape than in content. I would like to describe the proposals as a totally unprofessional treatment of important issues related to the Police and Leniency Senate. It would have been entirely possible to submit such proposals to the Judicial Committee throughout the spring and, to the extent that the proposals are available here today, there is at least one basis for a Document No. Eight proposals. There had also been opportunities to submit these proposals earlier in the revised national budget, so that one had a certain chance of entering into reality. In my opinion, the Progress Party is trying to take advantage of a tragic episode in Oslo for the sake of party politics. And it could not have been that this has been coordinated with the Legal Spokesman of the Progress Party, or that the proposer has attended the hour. In the case of one proposal, there is a question of search, and there is no possibility of giving powers to the Government, because there are issues of legislative change, and the judicial committee has about one. three months ago the Ministry asked to assess such a change in legislation and return to the Stortinget, and that work is already under way. This is to turn open doors. Then there are several proposals where one will give authority to the Government, the authority that the Government already has. At one point, investigation work is already under way in the Police Directorate, relating to the use of pepper spray, and the Justice Committee has had a review of the police weapon situation, which has been found satisfactory, based on the fact that they have their own service weapons and satisfactory MP 5. We should not use the staging room to open doors, to adopt work-in-plants, or to impose simply implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3098	The centre party and the representative of Bastisen enter into a minority comment in order to present their work to the Ministry on the town tunnel project, with a 5 million concession. kr. At the same time, a request is made for the Stortinget to submit a case on this pioneering project before the end of 2001. This project was first mentioned here in Stortinget in connection with the Quick Access message during the previous central government, not until the 1990s. The present state councillor Lars Gunnar Lie started with this on a long and winding road, and now it is up to the coming big deal to put this important and groundbreaking project into life. In this note, to which I would like more people to join, consider the most important practical aspects of the shipping that this tunnel will represent. In this context, I would particularly like to point out the possibilities open to public transport at sea by such an internal lease. With the technology now available on the speedboat page, a route between Bergen and Ålesund/Molde will provide a whole new and safer offer in this important area of the country, both in terms of construction and, not least, in terms of value creation. Pre-projects, model trials and economic calculations have shown that this project has a positive cost-benefit. In other words, Norway as a nation will have a positive exchange for the construction of this tunnel. In addition, achieving greater security in poor weather, which must be one of the main targets in this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3107	I am deeply disappointed that the Progress Party is joining forces with the Workers' Party and forms a majority in favour of the proposal for the reorganisation of the central social and health administration, in the right way with the change that the Cancer Register is being kept out. This reorganisation under the terms of renewal has been strongly debated in the trade unions. Three floors shall replace eleven. This is a matter which, both because it is of a principle nature and because of its size, should have been promoted as a matter of its own for the social committee, so that it could be properly treated in a trade committee, instead of being forced through the Storting in the revised national budget, where it has nothing to do. Among the many objections that have arisen, I would like to mention in particular that Professor of Public Law at the University of Bergen, Jan Fridthjof Bernt, who is a member of the Biotechnology Study, claims that its credibility towards the public and the trade unions is weakened by this reorganisation. This is very serious. The independence and credibility of the biotechnology label is crucial to its work. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the SV's proposal that the Biotechnology Secretariat retain its independent and stand-alone position. However, it is in principle wrong that such decisions of major organisational importance within health management should be taken without having been dealt with as a matter of concern by the Scientific Committee in Stortinget. That is why the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the representative of the Bastesen have proposed this. I hope that the Right subsidiary will support this proposal. I am pleased that the Stortinget, unlike the Government in its draft budget, today in 12 hours finds room for 20 million. kr for reimbursement of so-called blue prescription § 9 for the medicines Celebra and Vioxx for patients with arthritis and arthritis. The Health Minister said ‘for example’, but I perceive that the intention of the majority is precisely these drugs. If that is wrong, I ask to be corrected. These are relatively expensive drugs, but they make everyday life considerably easier for patients with severe pain, and not least they provide a significantly reduced, away from the risk of serious complications, such as life-threatening gastric bleeding – which unfortunately occurs with the drugs that Celebra and Vioxx are to replace. By saving patients for such complications, society also saves money. That's part of the math. But here it's not the money that's going to mean the most, but the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3116	I would like to address some of the aspects affecting the health sector in the revised national budget. I am pleased that we have a change in relation to the Government's proposal regarding the excesses in the area of rehabilitation, so that there will be no increase in the excesses from 190 to 220 kroner, as the Workers' Party originally proposed, but that we will still receive a balance of 190 kroner. At the same time, we have found at least some funds for the training institutions, so that the precarious situation that is now can become less precarious, but I have to ask that the Government return as soon as possible with a comprehensive and proper funding system for training and rehabilitation, and for the institutions that run with it, so that we can get this right. I'm also glad that the Glittaklinikk could get NOK 2.2 billion to save the operating economy out of this year, as opposed to what the Government proposed. I must also note that I think it is untidy of the ministry to treat the Glithrlinics as it has been treated for several years, when we know that the Social Committee and the majority of the Stortinge have shown a willingness to grant, and then we see how this is managed. Then I'm glad we got 20 million. kr in place in the case of section 9 of the prescription regulation and should not say anything more about it. So a little bit to the big lines in terms of the hospital economy and county councils as hospital owners. If we were not to have enough money, the Minister of Health said, we had to look at it more closely. And that's exactly what our proposal is. 121 is about ensuring that county councils as hospital owners now have a guarantee of funds, so that this does not go beyond the treatment of patients in the last six months of 2001, and creates dramatic situations for people in need of prompt and good health care. There is no overall picture from the county councils, the Minister of Health said further, but we know that information has come in the last few days – as an advocacy to the representative Alvheim – that we have to get money in place here. That is why the Central Party will vote in favour of the proposal of 250 million. NOK to the Regional Hospital, and I hope that the vote will be arranged so that we can do so. Should that fall, we will subsidize the proposal of the Progress Party, as in particular. Includes 40 million. kr to the Radium Hospital. With regard to the Radium Hospital, I would like to point out that the Government has to come back to the State budget for the autumn with a proper plan for development there, so that the two jet engines can be put in place by 2003, as promised by the Minister of Health in the autumn, but as he has left now, and so that there can also be better conditions for the research at the Radium Hospital. So a little visit to the Progress Party, which says that the Workers' Party is the head of health policy in this room and has to take responsibility for it. Yes, but it is now with the Progress Party on major and far-reaching issues in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3133	I have noticed that every time the Workers' Party feels threatened, they say that the Right is a threat to the welfare community. This happened in 1965 when the then Social Minister Olav Gjærevoll wrote a letter to all the pensioners in Norway claiming that the Right would oppose the introduction of popularism. Something similar happened in 1981, and it happens today. Historically, then, we may feel quite confident that such groundless claims will give the Right a very good choice. But what does the Workers' Party think is the evidence that the Right is a threat to well-being? Let's take the example of today's case. Who is it that suggests that not only the Rikshospitale, but also the other regional hospitals get their economy improved to maintain the patient offer? It's the Right, not the Working Party. Who is suggesting that revenators and asthmatics get new medications with fewer side effects on the blue prescription? It's the Right, not the Working Party. It's not until the 12th hour that the Labour Party and the middle parties come after. That's good, but I'm not sure it would have happened if nobody had gone ahead and pushed, both patients and parties. Hill-Marta Solberg said in the debate on the hospital reform a few days ago that Right will privatise the healthcare system and let the wallet determine access to the healthcare system. We won't. We secured a majority together with the Progress Party for the new hospital reform with 100 pst. public funding of state hospitals. It doesn't have much to do with privatisation. But the Right will have varied ownership of the hospitals where both voluntary and purely private interests are involved. We will because it is a citizen of diversity and innovation for the benefit of patients. They don't particularly care about who owns and operates the hospitals, if the government pays the bill, and it does as much in our model as in the Workers' Party. A few years ago, the Stortinget discussed the modernisation of a number of social security systems. That was when Hill-Marta Solberg was the social minister and presented the so-called welfare message. Who was the majority in the view of popular fear, the backbone of the welfare society? It was just the Working Party and the Right. So how can you make it happen that it is the Right that is a danger to well-being? It is the Workers' Party that sidelines the investigations, such as the Moland Committee and the Olsen Committee, in order to assess a fund-basement of supplementary pensions as a security reform for the whole of the population. The Workers' Party suffers from a decision-making refusal and sends questions that have already been investigated to new pension commissions. The welfare society shall be defended through change. We need to improve, modify and adapt welfare systems to a new reality and to the demands of new generations. It's the Right Road.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3146	First, I would like to say that I can join every word that Annelise Höegh said in his last speech here from the Stockholm pulpit after 20 years at Stortinget. So back to the debate that is taking place here today. From the Workers' Party there are still new figures on what the tax policy of the Right really costs. In the world of the Workers' Party, it is unmistakable that it is possible to live in a country where the level of taxation is not at the top of the world. Right will rage the welfare state, is the Workers' Party's new mantra. Only Sweden has a higher tax and tax level than us, and the Swedes are at full speed downwards. It obviously doesn't bother the Workers' Party that we're about to have the highest tax level in the world, but that the Right will do something about it. That's why there's a flow of output from the Labour Party government, not about the Labour Party's policy, but about claims about the Right's tax policy. The right will reduce taxes and taxes to further develop the welfare society. The resistance of the Labour Party to lower taxes and taxes is the real threat to the welfare state. The right has shown a short overview of how we want to solve the challenges. We want to reduce the level of taxation to the EU average. This is combined with comprehensive measures to improve labour supply, increase the competitive take-up of the public sector and red tape. At the same time, any tax or tax relief must not be covered by reduced public expenditure. The growth of the economy gives room every year for tax relief, not least combined with the Right-wing policy to reduce the growth in the expenditure of the population, which is a question that the Labour Party has stopped addressing. On top of this, increased use of oil revenue comes. The rule of action means that in 2010, we will spend just over 40 billion more a year of oil money than today, following the arrangement of the Workers' Party, and provided that a phase-in is in line with responsible fiscal balances. Analyses from, inter alia: The statistical central agency, which arrived the previous day, shows that there is a huge difference between the use of these funds for tax relief or for increased public expenditure. According to the SSB, $7 billion in oil money used for tax relief will give 1.5 pst-2 pst. lower prices than if the same funds are used for increased municipal consumption. It is thus obvious that a large part of the extra oil money must be used for tax relief to avoid high inflation and high interest rates as a result of increased use of this money. When the Workers' Party does not want to reduce taxes and charges, the Labour Party's policy for phase-in of oil money will result in high inflation and high interest rates and a public sector without conversion, where the Local Association will once again manage the Workers' Party's modernisation policy – no competitive outsourcing and higher taxes and taxes than necessary. Thus, the Labour Party's policy is a threat to the welfare society, and we have the opportunity to create a solution in that policy this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3167	The representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3170	If this increase had been willing to make the necessary money to get our shipping policy back on track at this budget review, it would have had a great opportunity to do so, not least after I made a private proposal on Easter. Then I asked the Stortinget to give the Government instructions to implement the decision that we made last year, which is now inside, and which we are going to take again this year. Then we'll see what effect it has. The government has proved that it doesn't care what decisions we take at all. It does what it wants. I brought up some suggestions in my first post here today. Since there is now obviously no will whatsoever from anyone but the representative Bastisen and I to get Norwegian shipping policy on track from 1 July, I have no other option but to draw my suggestions. In the case of cable vessels, however, there is a minority proposal in the vote, so it gives everyone the opportunity to vote over. I hereby withdraw the other proposals in order to avoid voting against two votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3177	It's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3180	I wasn't going to take the floor, but since the representative of Frøiland spoke so positively about Nesna, I couldn't stop myself. It was very pleasant to get positive signals from the Workers' Party as well. After all, they are given the chance to submit the State budget for the autumn. We don't know what kind of big business is going to deal with that budget, but we get to hope that as much as possible will be positive. They have the opportunity, as I said in my previous post, to vote in favour of proposal No. 3, but I also understand that when they are supporting the Government, it may be difficult when not the Government will in this round. What amazes me a little bit more, is that the Right, who is talking about school and tax, tax and school and is positive to Nesna, does not vote for. They say they want it on an ordinary budget, but they kind of don't get it. If they had said yes to 1 million. kr, they had ensured that it was included in the budget for the autumn. Nor is it certain that there will be a majority from the Right who will rule in this house. I have to say a few words about IT fornebu. It was exactly the ‘great adventure’ that the minority intended. Subsidy with government money was massively subsidized by a housing project at Fornebu. It's not to believe that the state is going to be building housing for the better in society! [[Laughter]] I don't think there'll be students and the poor asking to get an apartment away at Fornebu. Yeah, yeah. I have to say that when you compare this to what we use for ports and for seafarers, it's almost incredible that it's going to happen. Now the Coastal Directorate is to be moved out of Oslo. It has to be moved to Ålesund. Who's going to pay the bill? Yes, it must be taken from the increase to fishing ports which were granted in connection with the handling of the port notification. 16 million of the crowns that were to go to fishing ports are used to move the Coastal Directorate. That's that promotion. I have to say another thing about port expansions. Since its inception, the state port services have spent 8 billion kroner on port expansion in this country. For the last two years, we've been deleting DKK 14 billion in debt to the Gardermoban and the NSB. That's going to be the perspective of that. I have to say a little at the end about a new city in Oslo east. What will that cost? There, the start-up appropriation is estimated at NOK 2 billion – to build a new part of the city in Oslo east. Compared to 1 million. kr to Nesna, it becomes a little pussy the Nesna decision that no one can vote for. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3198	I was tempted to say that now there was an increase in the program, but what I'm going to say is a little too serious for that. In this my last post in Stortinget I will take up two relationships. The first is new buildings at the Nesna College, which has been visited by several people. Throughout all the eight years I have been here, the Storting has expressed written and verbal support for this project. Today there is a minority proposal of 1 million. Start-up appropriations. I have a lot of understanding that it doesn't get the majority, as long as they don't have the other 99 million. Such a procedure is too light. It's just going to be a demonstration and a blow in the air. Although there is no large project, a start-up grant belongs to the preparation of the ordinary budget. However, I am very pleased with what the head of the Education Committee, Ranveig Frøiland, said in his speech. Based on that, I hope the government in next year's budget will find an amount for start-up that is so large that the project can be completed as soon as possible. It's about a school that's professional at the top, but it's structurally outsourced, and now it's also starting to be about political credibility. The last thing I want to do from this pulpit is to make something as solemn as a small appeal – an appeal to establish cross-political cooperation to meet what has long been a social enemy no. 1, which is the problem of drug use. Developments in this area in recent years have been frightening, and are a strong signal that society is not doing enough in the prevention field. The fact that Norway is at the European peak in overdose deaths is a situation we cannot live with. With 100 pst. We know that over 300 young people will die in a year. Yet this, with few exceptions, is a non-theme in this room. It's hard to understand in view of all that commitment and the glow we can show in other matters, which have little or minimal societal significance. Since I am sitting in glasshouses as much as everyone else, this is not meant to be a criticism, and I hope that the new potion does not fall into blame, which happens all too often. Neither is there a simple solution to drug problems. But since it's a problem area that all the parties see and want to do something about, I wish the Storting could put all the party political disagreement aside and take a force to reverse the explosive development we've now seen. Personally, I would like to prescribe a major effort in primary school as the most effective measure. It will cost money, but they'll get society back in the form of saved repair costs. In primary school, we meet all the kids. At an early stage, we will be able to see which young people might be at risk. In a society like ours, primary school should not lack money and staff to take care of those who can fall outside. Ruble problems have become so big today that they demand priority from the country's leading politicians. Nothing should be more important than taking care of our children and young people. "We are so few in this country," wrote Nordahl Grieg during the last world war. It still applies, so we have no one to lose. With these words I also say thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3218	A proposal has been submitted, No. 120, to defer further payment of share capital to the companies of IT Fornebu pending a review in order to assess whether the Storting's assumptions are followed in terms of content and progress. It must be clear that this proposal will be voted against by the Progress Party. What makes it pull out on Fornebu is that the project is prevented by political controversy. Fortunately, the conflict with ESA has now been resolved, but there is still a long-standing dispute between the municipality of Bærum and the state on the choice and financing of collective solutions to Fornebu. This has led to the municipality of Bærum refusing to grant exemptions for further conversion of the Terminal Building. The Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Environment have now endorsed the requirements of Telenor and IT Fornebu, namely to agree to a temporary collective solution. The departments have asked the municipality of Bærum to accept a temporary, efficient bus service until further notice. Isn't that typical of Norwegian! Instead of fixing the conditions, you stick the screws in the wheels. This time it is Bærum, Norway's richest municipality. What has happened in other countries, Finland, Sweden – and in Ørestad now, the joint project between Denmark and Sweden? There is a tearing technological development. But here in Norway it goes year after year, and you notice very well in this room that the scepticism is there. Although there are people with contacts and large resources standing behind the center, they do not get off the spot. And now it's Bærum municipality that's the brake block. I myself have tried to follow developments out there because I feel a certain responsibility as the case rapporteur. It's actually full-time in the old terminal building at Fornebu. But who is willing to enter into contracts when you do not know and have the assurance that the municipality of Bærum is willing to grant a derogation so that you can find solutions? I'm going to give you some examples of what you're doing out there. It is a consortium where IT Fornebu is working with Compaq, Sisco and a number of international larger companies to attract foreign companies and research units. We are also in the process of setting up an excellent research centre, the Simula Centre, which will be operational until the autumn. The Centre shall cooperate with the undertakings established in Fornebu. It's actually very much interested in establishing itself out there. Many companies have reported their arrival. But it is clear that the basic assumptions must be present, and there is, as I said, the Bærum municipality brake block today. I hope that the Council of State will come up with this, and how you can contribute to solving this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3231	There have been many rounds on the issue of setting up an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. There have been many rematches, and now we also experience a small, super-spaced attempt at a rematch on the last day of this period. There are questions about the Storting's intentions being followed up. It will work in line with Stortinget's intentions, as far as I know the project. There's a lot of people who have responded to this vision, and that's what it's done here as well. Especially from the district office, it's easy to understand. However, the point of establishing an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu was that they were going to interact with regional centres, and thus also with resources and competences that they needed to develop better. We put in some clear statements when we went in for the project with an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Firstly, it had to be so large and so attractive that it became internationally competitive. The problem is that Norwegian competence has to compete with foreign countries, and we've had a little too much flow from Norway. Work's in progress. The representative Hedstrøm mentioned what was going on in that work, and here agreements have been made with both national and international companies. Secondly, we demand that a development environment, an innovation environment, be created in interaction between research, education and the Norwegian business community. The work is in progress, as planned, in line with Stortinget's intentions. And the third thing we started with, that there had to be a network to the regional centers, including the online education. The work that is also in progress is in line with the Grand Duchy’s presidencies. When progress – and I agree with the proposers – has been too small, it has external reasons for which IT Fornebu has not been in control. Ein has mentioned the conflict with ESA and the conflict in relation to Bærum municipality and public transport. It would be strange if we now kind of broke the statements that have been included in the project, when we continue to work on it in a delay due to a lack of approval from the municipality of Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3246	Several speakers have raised the question of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. I think it is important initially to clarify a relationship that has to be completely obvious. Of course, the assumptions, the intentions and the visions of the Stortinge have been used by IT Fornebu should lead the state’s participation and serve as the basis for it. It must be a completely self-evident and clear premise. For the management of 425 million. kr that Stortinget has granted as state capital in the Fornebu bet, the situation after I have been informed is the following: The 260 million. kr that was granted over the State budget for 2000 has been transferred to SIVA SF and managed by SIVA Fornebu AS, which is 100 pst. owned by SIVA SF. Per today is 17.6 million. kr used for holdings in IT Fornebu AS and 24,3 million. kr for holdings in IT Fornebu Eiendom AS. The remaining 218 million. kr is planned to be used for the purchase of new holdings in IT Fornebu Eiendom AS. I have been informed that this is part of a binding agreement. In the case of the 165 million. kr as the Stortinget granted State equity in the Fornebu bet in the State budget of the year, all these funds are retained pending concrete and formal decisions on capital expansion in the two companies, IT Fornebu AS and IT Fornebu Eiendom AS. I have also been informed that some of the reasons why so little of the funds are available are that the progress in the development of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu has been slower than foreseen. The reasons for this need to be more. The work on ESA approval delayed some activities by nearly one year until 18 December 2000 when the works of agreement were approved by ESA concluding that formal procedures would not be initiated. The clarification on, inter alia, public transport to and from Fornebu has also been time consuming. Negotiations are currently in progress to resolve the remaining issues. The Minister of Industry recently announced in a letter to IT Fornebu that the Government is aiming at a rapid decision-making process as soon as the consultation process around the last additional investigation on runway resolution at Fornebu has been completed. The government considers it important that national research and teaching environments are represented in the management board of IT Fornebu AS. There should be research and knowledge competence on the board, and if someone on the board goes out, others will come in. I have been informed that, among other things. are concerned with representation from the research parks of the Board of Directors. In addition, the State will be represented in the Governing Board. As previously foreseen, the development of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu will be clarified in the draft State budget for 2002. Allow me to comment briefly on two other questions that have been raised. Questions have been raised about the appropriations for the reimbursement of Vioxx and Celebra. Here's the full year's impact 60 million. kr, whereas the six-month effect is initially 30 million. kr. Since the preparations are new, it has been assumed that 20 million will be needed. kr this year, as also referred to by the Minister of Health. Finally, the representative from Lund, who raised the question of exemption from the disposal order so that the Student Association in Trondheim can take over the site from NTNU, there were questions about the transmission of the proposal: I cannot assume that it would be possible to fulfil the wish expressed by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3268	I noted that the Minister of Finance read from the letter sent from the Minister of State to the Left's big group, which everyone has read. What was the question was whether at the time of the ordinary general meeting and decided to undertake to pay in the remaining share capital, the checks that should be made in relation to the suspension and all the visions and everything – to say it in Southern – the ‘maracle cabinet’ that stood there. Were they fulfilled, or were they not fulfilled? I feel the answer is that the Council of State guarantees that at the time when the state got committed, the content was supposed to be present. Otherwise, you have made a commitment without fulfilling the terms of the grant. With regard to the identification of these two factors, which is the reason for the lack of momentum, the thing that was far advanced in the debate one year ago is just waiting for clarification in ESA, and what went on the collective solutions in relation to Bærum. And in the case of the trials from among others. Carl I. Hagen and Øystein Hedstrøm talking about the municipality of Bærum as a right-wing municipality, it's just to say that there is a total cross-political environment in the municipality of Bærum that has fronted this case. For good reason, they have become irritated over the way the state has handled this matter. Because it is a lobby product to be pushed through in spite of warnings both in terms of costs for collective solutions and the possibilities to implement them at all in the real world. But the answer given by the Minister of Finance, I interpret as a guarantee that the State has not entered without doing the investigations on the Government, before committing itself to paying the entire share capital, because what has been paid into the share capital is for this property company, while holding back on the other. So you have a commitment to the property part, and the statements that this is approaching a reindeer property project were actually confirmed, because that is where you've committed yourself. And I understand that the private investors will have the risk relief it is to have the government on this now initially. I sincerely hope that a situation may arise before the end of the year in which these shares are offered for sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3277	It was Hedstrøm's posts that prompted me to take the floor, in part. The fact that the IT Fornebu project meets ESA regulations, the state's lack of collective links, the funding of it, and actually meets planning and building laws, should not surprise anyone. In a democracy, it is such that even though rich people are allying with the state, one must follow the law and the law. It's not that the money or power automatically gives dispensations. So it shouldn't be a big surprise. But it is this reality that others meet to daily, that the state is now meeting at Fornebu. It's probably an interesting experience, but the most daunting thing is that someone's surprised about it. I just want to give an explanation of vote on proposal No. 112, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to grant an extension to the police in order to investigate persons and cars.’ I find this proposal difficult to understand, because this is a proposal to empower the Government to amend Norwegian law. It is not, however, such a way that the Grand Duchy may give up its legislative powers in plenary decisions. The political content of the proposal has been discussed by other representatives in the past. The fact is that, by granting an extended authorisation to search persons, that part of the proposal is unnecessary. The second piece, which concerns cars, is being prepared. A bill has been notified to the hearing. As I said, the form of this proposal is such that I wonder if you've thought through it fully, to say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3289	There are some of us who may come in a bit disturbing with various searches in the middle of the IT Fornebu debate, but I would like to address some other issues, which are also discussed by the Labour Party and the Advance Party. New organisational model for the health and social sector is central. There is consensus in this room that we need strong, professional and social governance in these areas at state level, but the government should present a separate case concerning this organisation and the reform model that is now proposed. In the agreement with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party has been able to place the Cancer Register outside this new model, as proposed by the Government, but the subject of biotechnology should at least have been outside and had a neutral and independent role, thus strengthening credibility in relation to the consultative role of the Biotechnology Group, not least on ethical issues. When we do not get a majority to present this in full to the Stortinget, we want to vote in favour of SV's proposal, no. 118, presented today. So to this with economics and hospitals. The representative Alvheim tried to doubt the reasons for the proposal that the Central Party has put forward today, but he happily wanted to vote in favour of it. The background for this is at least not galluptals, it is the device that the centre party had on the municipal bill, and the case that was dealt with yesterday and that was voted down. When we did not get to a settlement arrangement, among other things. with the county municipalities, as proposed there, we believe that we need to address this in a different way and guarantee – and that is what is the main point and the matter – that there is an offer of health care and care in the last six months of 2001. There's more concern here. There were also concerns raised in yesterday's debate about the local economy. It is also gratifying that the Progress Party will vote in favour of this, because it is not entirely in accordance with the agreement of the Advance Party and the Workers' Party on the hospital settlement, and the framework they have set at 200 million. kr – and nothing more in that context. Finally, only a little about this with home-based dialysis treatment for renal insufficiency patients, as the Stortinget has expressed its opinion on unanimously, and where the Government has acted in violation of the Stortingen recommendation and proposals. I hope that the Government will give this system such a facility that it is in line with the Storting's wishes and decisions, and so that there will be a much stronger equality between home treatment and hospital treatment based on haemodialysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3300	We were many who waited a long time for a clarification from the Government and the government party when it came to the questions that had been raised in connection with IT Fornebu. Then finally came the representative Hedstrom on behalf of the Government and ensure that everything was all right. He also had the following force rate: that one had to remember that there were people with contacts that stood for IT Fornebu. That's probably right, but that wasn't the answer to the question. Then also came the representative Rudihagen, who assures that everything was as it should be, while it actually says in the letter from the municipal minister that one in some areas is one year late. It's also not completely consistent. What remains, and to which I ask the Minister of Finance to answer exactly, is: on 13 March, one is signed for axes for 242,390,000 kroner. After the representative Rudihagen says, everything was in place of what was in place as leaders when Stortinget dealt with this matter. Can the Minister of Finance now confirm that this was a sign of 240 million.? Because that's just like what the letter from IT-Fornebu says, that in the event of a missing payment, a «also risking liability for the loss of IT Fornebu Eiendom AS had to suffer from non-payment». This must mean that a person has not taken a reminder that everything is not already in place. With all due respect for the representatives Hedstrøm and Rudihagen - they are not currently drawing for the Government. I ask the Minister of Finance to clarify, both on the basis of what Gabrielsen said, and what I have tried to formulate precisely now: Were the seats in place on 13 March when one signed the agreement of 240 million.?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3312	First, to the representative Foss. Yes, it is difficult for entrepreneurs and industrialists in Norway to start their business; each time they apply for permission, concession, authorisation, authorisation, licence and exemption. But here we have a moment as well. Those who have known the Fornebu process on the body, the stakeholders, have been very dependent on an incredible number of rounds in Stortinget. If I'm not mistaken, it was the tenth round of the last time we dealt with it last February. And to the representative Lilletun, this time it's about getting a derogation from the municipality of Bærum. It does not benefit IT Fornebu and the other stakeholders to conclude contracts unless the contracts can provide any security. It's an impossibility. That's why this stops. And this is typical of Norway. The other Nordic countries have established competitive IT and knowledge centres long ago. It started in Oulo in Finland in the 1980s with the help of Nokia and some other companies, and there are thousands of jobs created. We have Kista outside Stockholm with the Ericsson Concerto, and now Ørestad, a joint project between Denmark and Sweden, where the motto for the authorities is: Nice, set in motion – we will help you. And there we might have the strongest technological growth in Western Europe. And the front stage of the cell phone was actually invented by a Norwegian, but he could not develop it in Norway. But Nokia and others did this. And Nokia is actually the largest company in the Nordic region, twice the size of all companies registered at Oslo Børs. I suspect that the municipality of Bærum uses this process as a means of pressuring and financing it, and then it will go beyond an innocent third party that will not develop and create this international IT and knowledge centre that we need here in Norway to get out of the commodity clamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3319	A little back to proposal No. 117 and student housing in Trondheim. The government's response to my question was less positive than expected. However, I have learned that he and others believe that the project has come so far that it is not possible to assess the Student relationship that buys this plot. I mean, it's not like that. And I also refer to the Council of State Giske's answer to question 432, where it says: ‘Sale of the Rosenborg facilities is otherwise dependent on the consent of the Storting to the proposal for Roman Numeral Authorisation IV’. I have received requests from several parties during the day that the proposal should be submitted, as it is a broad wish that student housing can be realised, but that we do not know enough about the status of the project and the consequences of making this decision. I would therefore like to re-examine the proposal for a transmission proposal, and hope that the Government will do its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3331	In the case of IT Fornebu, I would like to refer to the statement that I announced that the Storting will receive on the first occasion, i.e. in the draft budget. Let me comment on some of the previous debate today. In my opinion, this debate has revealed that the right is difficult to know what they themselves think about taxes. In a reply to me earlier today, Per-Christian Foss said: ‘I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the Minister of Finance is going to talk about other parties in his speeches, he should stick to the truth. Then a direct, correct quote is an advantage.’ And then he quotes from a note and claims that I've made an incorrect quote, and he goes on to say, ‘I ask the Ministry of Finance to find out the quotation in the Right Programme on page 52, where it says: ‘Right will therefore lower the fees towards a Nordic and European level.’ Yes, it's true that there's Foss quoting in the Right Program. 6.4. But if the representative Foss takes the time to also read the cover. 2.5 in his own party program, he will see that it says: ‘For this reason, the Right considers that the overall level of taxation needs to be reduced towards the level of the EU countries.’ So that's what it was shown from my side of the post. Foss can get a loan from my right programme if he wants to check the quote. But in addition to the fact that the representative Foss has not got what's in the Right Programme, there are several people who are obviously not sure what they think about what's there. So the right-hand manager, Jan Petersen, has referred to a number of media references to the Right Tax Charges of NOK 40 billion. It is 40 billion kroner to lower the tax level to EU level based on Norway, including the socket. However, in the Economic Report of 14 June, the Right Tax Commissioner, Børge Brende, says that the Right’s objective is to reduce the tax share to the EU level at mainland Norway level, i.e. from 49 to 42 pst. That means a tax bill of $78 billion. And Brende also promises that the tax operation will be carried out in six to eight years. This is, to say the least, unyielding. Jan Petersen will cut the tax to EU level as a share of total GDP. Børge Brende will cut it to EU level as a share of GDP for mainland Norway. Per-Cristian Foss will not commit at all. Jan Petersen won't keep the promise. Børge Brende will keep the promise for six to eight years. It must be allowed once again to ask: what does the Right mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3362	It was so random that I came after this tirad from the Minister of Finance. I have explained this to the Minister of Finance before today. And if the Minister of Finance hasn't understood this yet, I think you should give up. In the past, the finance minister has shown all manner of disgust about reading advertisements, where he obviously did not understand what it said – although most people would have understood it – and you have been through the same thing today. I think this is quite pathetic from a finance minister, when he is now up in the corner he is that people don't believe in his tax promises, and then he keeps on doing this. What the finance minister should have done was to answer the question that Stortinget has asked him today, and that question is, does he not confirm or confirm the opinion of Ansgar Gabrielsen? Would he be able to confirm that Ansgar Gabrielsen understood him correctly when it came to IT Fornebu? We're going to have a clear answer to that, and then it's not useful to refer to what he's going to say for the harvest. He has to give me an answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3369	Odd Roger Enoksen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3372	Back to IT Fornebu once again, and I'll make it short. The conflict with ESA and the problems related to public transport were well known when we dealt with IT fornebu ten times last year. When 10 cases were dealt with last year in Stortinget, it was because two of the biggest representatives had appointed themselves case handlers and dated exactly when the various measures were to be implemented. The measures are per year. the current date not yet in place. The project is very late. It goes excellent out there, says Hedstrom. Yes, the planning of market mapping is going on – not market mapping, but market mapping planning. The info centre is at the idea stage. Online education shall be reported during the summer of 2001. Spinno at the Norwegian action is at the idea stage, the Centre for Excellent Research Action is not up to date. So it's going great with the projects that the company and the center were going to take care of themselves. This has nothing to do with the state's insidiousness, but shows that this project is very late in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3381	IT Fornebu is a big and important thing. The question was how and, if so, how strongly the state should be involved in property development and a research and knowledge centre for IT at Fornebu. The Working Party and the Advance Party were running in a company. It's also a little interesting about these days, as the Workers' Party is trying to represent the right forces as the big threat. Now things indicate that the warnings that this majority of people got against running the way they did can hit. In order to ensure that this was a project that we could defend that the state went heavily into, Stortinget gave clear leadership to secure the knowledge, research, development and innovation part of the project. Newsprint and subsequent letters from the municipal minister to the Left indicate that progress has arisen. The important thing for the Biggest now is to ensure that the Biggest's own assumptions for going in with a lot of capital hold. Brustad County Council produced it so in its letter that only a small amount from the state, well 40 million. kr, has been transferred to the project. The remaining one would be transferred in 10 days, 25 June. However, a letter from IT Fornebu today shows that, through SIVA in March, the State committed more than 240 million. kr. If this is true, it is all the more essential that the assumptions of the Storing are met – if there is no real problem. The proposal of the representative Sponheim on behalf of several parties and groups in the Stortinget implies that, if adopted, the Government will have 10 days to review before paying the remainder of the sum on 25 June. The representative Rudihagen claimed that this was a rematch on IT Fornebu. No, when board members now withdraw from IT Fornebu, and the board of state in letters confirms that there are progress problems, the Storting does nothing but its duty when drilled in this. There's no question of a rematch. I have all the respect for the representatives Rudihagen and Hedstrøm, but the finance minister did not answer Jon Lilletun's question whether he can guarantee that the assumptions were met on March 13th, when the state committed 240 million. kr. The Minister of Finance referred only to a statement that, as far as I understood, would be related to the budget for the autumn. Therefore, I repeat the question: can the Council of State – and not representatives of the two parties mentioned in the Stortinget – assure that the assumptions of the Stortinget had been fulfilled on 13 March, when the State actually committed itself? In retrospect, if those assumptions were not met, a huge problem arises both in relation to the Stortinget and in relation to IT Fornebu, which in that case threatens legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3394	Is there anything that has shaped this matter throughout the entire period, even during the previous government, it is the very hard pressure from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that the Storting's will in the matter was to be fulfilled. That is why it is natural, when the Workers' Party itself has got government power and can sit in the driver's seat to drive this case forward, that the Government is careful – and I expect it to have been – just to comply with these assumptions. What were the key assumptions of the majority of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party? I would like to highlight two aspects in particular, which I expect the Council of State will confirm that he had a full overview of and can guarantee the basis of the agreement that was concluded on 13 March. So there's two relationships. One is what is going to happen around online education; the other is what is going to happen about the innovation of new businesses out there, what they themselves have called ‘Spinno in Norwegian’, a kind of Finnish model. And in the transmission that has come to Stortinget from the Minister for Municipal Affairs, with a covering letter from SIVA, it is stated per year. 31 May something about how the progress is for the different areas. I'm going to take the two areas that have been central. Online education first: ‘IT Fornebu Knowledge AS was one of the initiatives launched to achieve this objective. Due, inter alia, to: the lack of access to capital in this market in early 2001 did not give this company the growth that had been hoped for.» This returns the state operator to the Government. And then to an innovation, Spinno in Norwegian, that's sketched. There is the conclusion that the State itself gives back to the Government: ‘The action is at the idea stage; it is important to find out whether the model is applicable.’ So that's the information that the government gets per. the end of May. Then there is even greater reason to ask the Council of State to clarify: what did it know when they committed themselves legally and had full back coverage in implementing the decision of the Grand Duchy per. 13th March?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3415	I said in my previous post that Storting's assumptions are of course taken into account when it comes to the government's follow-up and work with IT fornebu. I have been informed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that all the prerequisites were in order at the time of the decision. Furthermore, as I have also said in my previous posts, I have taken the view that the Storting has a wish for a more detailed explanation. As I said, it will be given in the budget proposal for next year, but I assume that the Storting will also be able to get a more detailed explanation, as I suppose it is wanted. I am sorry that I have still not received an answer from the representative Petersen to the question of taxes. Petersen uses a maneuver that you often do when you don't have an answer to a question. Petersen has still not responded to whether the Right assumes a reduction in the level of taxation from total GDP or from the GDP of mainland Norway. It constitutes a fairly significant difference. Since Petersen has now received a clear answer to the question he asked, I assume and expect that he may be able to provide an equally clear answer back to the question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3424	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3-10. [[See pages 4028 to 4072]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3444	I would like to say very briefly that we think this was a job that should be left to the newly elected Stortinget. We've expressed that in a meeting with the prime minister. At the same time, we think it would have been natural to have gained some views on who should be selected for this from slightly different sources. That is why, by voting against this proposal, we want to make it clear that we think it was a little too many party politicians. The article concerns the matter on the supplementary agenda, cf. Carl I. Hagen's comment on the next page.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3453	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4072]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3467	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3481	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3495	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3509	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3523	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3537	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3551	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3565	Just a brief note on behalf of the Presidency. The suspension stated that the changes to the court law that are the background to the suspension are expected to be sanctioned today. I can now confirm that the law decision is sanctioned in the Council of State today. This legislative decision provides for the establishment of a central independent judicial administration to be managed by a board of directors. The King shall appoint five of the members of the Governing Board and the Storting shall elect two members, with personal alternates. The Presidency agrees that Ole Henrik Magga and Turid Moldenæs are elected as members, with Oluf Arntsen and Ragna Berget Jørgensen respectively as alternates. The election shall be valid for four years from 1 August of this year. I recommend that the setting be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3577	I refer you to the post I made under case No. 11 and that belonged here. Of course, it was presented because of an incurrency, which it usually calls. I just want to refer to the excellent article under case no. 11, and recommends that the Progress Party group vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3582	Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda. [[See page 4074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3595	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3715	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to participate in a targeted issue against current owners of Telenor ASA. The proposal must include an economic framework for State participation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3738	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a reorganization of the state ownership of companies that are organised as limited liability companies and are engaged in business activities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3752	Proposal No. 1, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is authorised to sell the State’s shareholding in Telenor through a combination of the issue and direct sale of the State’s shares.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3770	The right has announced that they will now support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3810	Case No. A total of 121 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen Proposal No. 3, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen proposals No. 4-6, by Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 7, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 8, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Left. 9, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the representative Steinar Basteen, the proposals No. 10-12, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 13–15, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Progress, the Left and the representative Steinar Basteen, the proposals No. 16-18, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 19, by Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 20 and 21, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left, on behalf of the Left. 22-32, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the representative Steinar Basteen, on proposal No. 33, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen the proposals No. 34-36, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and the Party for Progress, proposal No. 37, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 38–40, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 41, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 42, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 43, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 44, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 45, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 46, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 47, by Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 48 to 51, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on proposal No. 52, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 53-56, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 57 to 59 and 99, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 60-76 and 107-116, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 77, by Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 78, by Odd Roger Enoksen, on behalf of the Centre Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposals No. 79-82, from Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 83 and 84, by Odd Roger Enoxen, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 86-91 and 118, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposals Nos. 92 and 93, by Terje Johansen on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 94-98, by Mr Bastesen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 100 to 106, by Mr Inger Stolt-Nielsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has drawn up proposal No. 117, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 119, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and Left proposal No. 120, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representatives of Vidar Kleppe and Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 121, by Odd Roger Enoksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 122, from Jørn L. Stang on behalf of the representative Vidar Kleppe and himself Proposals Nos. 1–98 is included in the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in agreement with the parties involved, it will not be opened up to the fragmentation of minority voting proposals. When we come to the vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution, the parties are set to abstain from the vote they would normally have taken – this in order to avoid a very time-consuming and partly complicated voting where the result is nevertheless given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this must not be used against a party on a later occasion. Then we should be ready for voting. The vote will be taken first on the minority proposals and then on the vote on the motion for a resolution. We start with proposal No. 122, from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang and Vidar Kleppe. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. Post Purpose1320 30 Statens vägvesen – Riksveg investment is increased by........... 3.3 billionCap. Item Purpose2309 01 Random expenditure – Operating expenditure is reduced by............................ 3.3 billionE6 Oslo – Swinesund is forced to extend to four-field motorways from the district border Akershus/Eastfold to the national border on Swinesund, without toll financing. [[breeding route 1]] Parallel to the expansion of E6 in Sweden. E18 Oslo – Ørje will be forced to extend to Class A motorway to the border at Ørje, without toll financing. E18 and E6 Oslo – Winter Bridge improves traffic years to remove bottlenecks. [[breeding route 7]] E18 Oslo – Kristiansand shall be required to extend the route with a fully-fledged motorway, without toll financing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e3978	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 94-98, by Mr Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 94 sounds: The 2001 government budget is amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestination:Croner263University of Tromsø:50State grants, increased by 72 800 000from SEK 778 076 000 to DKK 850 876 000326Language, literature and library purposes [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3328):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e4108	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 92 and 93, from the left. Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Objective:Crones260University of Oslo:50State grants, increased by 129 000 000 from SEK 2 254 902 000 to kr 2 483 902 000261University of Bergen:50State grants, increased by 127 500 000 from SEK 1 363 282 000 to kr 1 490 782 000262Norway university of science:50State grants, increased by 153 500 000 from kr 1 743 012 000 to kr 1 896 512 000263University of Tromsø:50State grants, increased by 75 800 000 from kr 778 076 000 to kr 853 876 000270Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students:74Assistance grants, increased by 5 000 from SEK 53 370 000 to kr 58 370 000320General cultural purposes:81Cultural school credits, other purposes may be transferred to 22 000 kr 28,000 from 10 000 from SEK [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5309):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e4355	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 86, 87, 89 and 90, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones100Ministry of Foreign Affairs1Operating expenditure, increased by 3 000 000 from NOK 339 892 000 to NOK 342 892 00071Various grants, increased by 2 000 000 from NOK 27 320 000 to NOK 29 320 000221Contributions to primary school [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5440):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5182	There is a vote on proposal No. 88, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to wind up the reporting system for funds used for refugees in Norway as ODA-approved unaid.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5200	There is a vote on proposal No. 91, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a plan for increased labour supply in the context of the 2002 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 83 and 84, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croners320General cultural objectives:60Cultural construction and broadband in the public libraries, can be transferred, increased by 10 000 000 from € 58 300 000 to € 68 300 000440Police and county council [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5345	Proposal No. 117, from the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal during the debate. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government derogate from the Disposal Regulation – adopted by kgl. Res. 19.12.1997 — so that the Student Association in Trondheim can take over land from NTNU at the agreed price for the construction of 300 student housing.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5353	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 121, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that no county municipality will be forced to reduce the activity of its county hospitals in the second half of 2001 due to the tight economy. Any deficit made up in 2001 based on the usual hospital activity shall be covered in the hospital settlement between the State and the county municipalities.» This proposal is also supported by the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Twist People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5371	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 79–82, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croners320General cultural objectives:50Norwegian cultural funds, increased by 3 000 000from DKK 225 262 000 to DKK 228 262 00078Other fixed measures, increased by 1 700 000from NOK 19 875000 to NOK 21 575 000322Art of art, crafts and public spaces [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4810):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5672	There is a vote on proposal No. 78, from the Central Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner571Rame grant to municipalities64Sex grant increased by 100 000 000 from NOK 3 206 000 to NOK 3 306 000 0001320. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5766	There is a vote on proposal No. 77, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to prohibit the importation and placing on the market of genetic food, initially by imposing a temporary ban for 10 years.’ [[moratorium]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e5782	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 60 to 76, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croners239Other purposes in secondary education:73A grant to Red Cross Nordic United World College, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 18 951,000 to NOK 24 951 000281Common expenditure on universities and colleges [[autodiesel fee]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6371	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 107 to 110, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The size empowers the Government to amend the weapons instruction so that the operations manager/operative outside manager shall be the one who authorises the use of firearms.’;» Here the President will draw attention to the fact that there has been a change from ‘shall’ to ‘can’. Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to amend the arms directive in order to allow the police to use pepperspray.’ Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘The decision empowers the Government to amend the arms directive in order to ensure that rapid storage of weapons in the coupe is carried out in all police districts.’ Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make a statement on the arms situation in the police in the context of the 2002 State Budget, and to propose the necessary appropriations to ensure that all police officers are personally armed as well as adequate weapons training.’ [[revolves and MP5]] The right has announced its support for these four proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6406	There is a vote on proposal No. 111, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government in the context of the 2002 State Budget to propose adequate resources to ensure that all high-school police students who are graduates in the spring of 2002 are employed.’ Here, the Right, Left and Twist voters have announced their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6424	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 112-116, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to grant an extension to the police in order to investigate persons and cars.’ Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government at least double the number of police patrols in Oslo in evening and night hours out of the year.’ Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The 2001 State budget is amended as follows:Chapter. 441 Oslo Police District Operating expenses are increased by 20 412 000 from NOK 1015 400000 to NOK 1035 812 000. ‘... Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a sufficient number of police cars are armoured.’ Proposal No. 116 sounds: ‘The 2001 State budget is amended as follows:Chapter. 441 Oslo Police District45 Major equipment acquisition and maintenance [[NY]] [[armour of cars]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6474	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 57 to 59, from the right. Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones197Assistance to non-ODA-approved countries and international environmental measures:70Assistance to nuclear safety measures and the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe, may be transferred, increased by 31 500 000 from NOK 379 631,000 to NOK 411 131 000240Private schools, etc.:70Appropriations, allocation of estimates, increased by 33 200 000 from NOK 1 198 674 000 to NOK 1 231 874 000328Museum and other cultural protection purposes and counties:51District development grants, funds, can be used under Chapter. [[SND]] 551 item 51, reduced by 200 000 000 from DKK 793 400000 to DKK 593 400 0002600Treasure income:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 63 500 000from NOK 3868 200000 to NOK 3 804 700 0005521Additional value tax and investment levy, etc.:70Tax, increased by 3 309 000 000 from NOK 126 271 000 to NOK 129 580 000’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6912	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 99, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide a review of the experience with the Finnish and North-Troms Action Zone and at the same time assess conversions and possible extensions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6924	There is a vote on proposal No. 118, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking, in conjunction with the merger of the State Social and Health Administration, that the Secretariat of the Biotechnology Secretariat retain its independent and stand-alone position.’ The President understands that the Progress Party and the Labour Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e6940	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 53, 54, 55 and 56, from the Party of Advancement and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 53 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7135	There is a vote on proposal No. 52, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7187	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 48 and 49, from the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7478	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7531	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7583	There is a vote on proposal No. 45, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7635	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7687	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7739	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the Right, the Left, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7791	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e7846	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38, 39, 40, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, and the Left. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner322Arts of art, crafts and public spaces78Various fixed measures, increased by 1,300 000from NOK 35,634 000 to NOK 36,934 000571Room grants to municipalities [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4064):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8021	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8079	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 and 36, from the Right and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrons249Other measures in education:21Special operating expenditure, may be carried over, can be used under headings 60 and 70, reduced by 22 500 000from NOK 164 743 000 to NOK 142 243 000856Barnehages:60Operating grants to kindergartens, estimates, can be used under Chapter. 844 item 70, increased by 240 000 000 from NOK 4 941 191 000 to NOK 5 181 191 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8166	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8184	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8276	There is a vote on the motions for resolutions. 22-29 and Nos. 31 and 32, from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the representative of Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8782	Proposal No. At the request of the proposers, 30 are changed to a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8810	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 17 and 18, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e8954	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–15, from the Right, the Party of Advances, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9039	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 12, from the Right, the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen: Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner2309Costful expenditure [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5309):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9102	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones221Contributions to primary education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3221):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9157	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a review of the practice of liaison between the Ministry and the Competition Authority and legislative proposals for this contact for the future in the context of the 2002 State budget.’ Here the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9173	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestinationCrones860Consumer council [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3860)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9225	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Centers, the Left, and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones614Development of social services, responses for drug users, etc. :63Development of social services and drug services, may be transferred, increased by 64 100000 from NOK 148 700000 to NOK 212 800000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9288	Proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen have been withdrawn. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestinationCroner2445State Building [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5445):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9345	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2001 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestinationCrones323Musical purposes [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3323):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9397	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, from the Right Party, from the Advance Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure the practice of the coordination law so that no one can lose out on having earned pension points in the social security system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9411	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 120, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the representative Vidar Kleppe and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to defer further payment of share capital until the teams of the IT-Fornebu project have been reviewed in view of the Storting’s assumptions about content and progress. Furthermore, it is assumed that the innovation, research and teaching part is not impaired in relation to property development.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9426	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9433	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9440	Now I want to say that I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9447	The President will have nothing against taking the vote again, if it is asked. Is it asked that we take the vote again? It does. Then we take the vote again on proposal No. 120.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9458	It concerns proposal No. 121, which has been treated and weighed over. However, I dare to request that the vote be resumed. Unfortunately, I think that the voice counseling was a little incomplete, and as a result, I fell for the weakness of not getting up. I think that unfortunately had a certain signal effect, which gave a wrong outcome. So this is proposal No. 121, from the Center Party, and it's about hospitals and settlement, a debate that essentially expanded in the Storting yesterday. I have reason to believe that a number of representatives may have voted incorrectly on that proposal, so I dare ask most graciously, even though it is recently made, that voting can be resumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9463	That means that the Right will vote in favour of this proposal, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9466	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9473	The right will vote against the proposal. Yes, then the President believes to the extent that she did not mix Right into those who would support the proposal, but who was to blame and not to blame, we will take that on a later occasion. Then we take proposal No. 121, from the Center Party again, if the hall doesn't have anything against it -- it doesn't. It is the proposal of the Central Party No. 121, and it is announced support from the Party of Advances, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e9485	Now we're going to vote over the committee's setting. In order to save some time, the president will suggest that we refer the setting quite continuously without mentioning the chapter numbers, and so that we just stop when we're going to have a voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e14157	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 119, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A total of 20 million is granted. kroner, in addition to the adjustment, for the reinforcement of section 9 of the blue prescription. Cape. 2751 item 70 is increased by 150 million. kroner, from NOK 6 011000000 to NOK 6 161000000.» This is entry 70, and the President has reason to believe that this will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e14171	After this, the suspension proposal for a decision will lapse. 2751, heading 70. It shall be counted against the other items under the heading. 2751, and that's the 72 and the 73.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e14182	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16186	There is an amendment to XXXVIII which the chairman of the Committee has presented in the course of the debate. thereafter, XXXVIII is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16257	Here it is the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Cross-Political People's Party that is behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16300	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16334	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16368	I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16375	I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16382	Then the number of votes would be the same. So the setting goes by 84 to 12 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16403	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16425	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2001:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16444	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Foss on behalf of the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2001:
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16461	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representatives of the Grand Duchy Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Progress and the representative of Karl N. Meløysund, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 28 May 2001: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the property tax and the benefit tax on owner-occupied dwellings will be phased out gradually over 4 years and to make proposals in the State budget for 2002 to the first stage of such a four-year winding-up plan.’ The voting boards showed that 71 votes were cast against the proposal and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.22.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16474	I voted incorrectly, I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16481	It implies that 70 votes were cast against the proposal and 39 against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16488	There is a vote on the proposal by the Grand Representative for the Christian People's Party and the Left, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2001: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a new housing tax system based on the Fire Insurance Tariff/Full Value Insurance Tariff, where the income tax on the benefits of living in owner-occupied dwellings and leisure homes ceases to exist, and dwellings of normal standard avoid house taxes.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16505	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 28 May 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a large-scale notification providing an overview of the framework conditions for the petroleum activities of internationally competing oil companies in Norway, on the continental shelf of Norway, as well as other territories and continental shelf.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16522	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 28 May 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case that investigates and/or proposes systems/models for a variable marginal tax depending on the oil price, so as to reduce marginal tax when the crude oil price is low.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16539	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 May 2001: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals to amend the capital depreciation rules for activities on the base, so that they become more consistent with the actual life of the installations during the year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16574	There is no record. We shall now vote on the matter on the supplementary agenda, Agenda No. 104. The Committee had ceased: The members and alternate members of the Management Board of the Court of Justice shall be elected for the period from 1 August 2001 to 31 July 2005: 1st@item: inlistbox Ole Henrik Magga, Kautokeino. Vara member: Oluf Arntsen, Kristiansand S.2. Turid Moldenæs, Tromsø. Vara member: Ragna Berget Jørgensen, Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16590	The Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16600	The 145th big thing, which is the fourth big thing in this parliamentary term, has held 104 meetings in plenary, 46 meetings in Odelstinget and 16 meetings in Lamentationet. The last part of the session has been marked by the Storting's work on important and comprehensive reforms that will shape our society in the years to come: hospital reform, police reform, changed division of tasks for counties, state and municipality, extensive changes in defence, important changes in judicial administration and a major reform of higher education. The size has also adopted reforms for its own work. The reform of the budget has been made permanent, open consultations shall be the rule and not an exception in the work of the committees. The working conditions of the representatives shall be improved and a thorough assessment of all aspects of the control activities of the Storting. During the last four-year period, small and large changes have been made to our own legislation, the Rules of Procedure, which has had an impact on the day-to-day work here in the house. The dry figures can tell us that the committees have been through a year of work. They have made 351 settings for Stortinget and 132 for Odelstinget, while the Government has contributed by making 17 presentations and promoting 97 staging propositions, 53 staging messages and 105 staging propositions. In return, the government has had to answer 535 question-time questions, about 440 written questions and 23 interviews. The representatives' own contributions to the workload include: host 133 Document No Eight proposals, and that is a record, while 21 Constitutional proposals have been put forward, which are left to deal with in the future. Since this is probably the last ordinary grand meeting in this session and during this parliamentary term, the president will thank all those who have contributed to the fact that the Stortinget has been able to do its work as a elected body, not least the employees of the house, but also the press, who contribute to at least some of the things we do here in the house, coming out to those who have chosen us. I would also like to thank the governments that have been sitting in the period, for the cooperation and many hard thanks for four years. Since this is the last meeting I run in Stortinget, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and necessary sustainability. A lot could be said, preferably for each one. Let me say it briefly: I'm going to miss you and this house. Before cancelling the meeting, the President shall invite the representatives to sign the minutes of the Grand Duchy and its departments. The laying protocol is published in the laying room, while the protocol for Stortinget and Odelstinget will be published on the table in the hall later. There you can sign them after the Odelstinget has held its – I hope – short meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16623	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16630	Honored President! During this four-year period, I have had the pleasure of leading the second largest population, after the Workers' Party. And because I have also been the representative who has allowed me from time to time to disagree with the president in individual matters, and also took the word most of the time after the end of the meeting, I will take this last opportunity to express my heartfelt thanks for the eight years that Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl has led the Stortinget. It has been done in an excellent way despite a few individual things. That is why I also think I am entitled to say that Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl has really got his name into history through the reform activities that have been carried out in the last eight years. There have been spontaneous Question Time, written questions have been put in place and new voting arrangements have been put in place. This meeting had in the old days been at least two hours longer, to inform those who have not been here for as long as some of us. It's been a huge saving. President Kolle Grondahl has also taken the initiative of a constitutional seminar, which has led to a greater interest in such issues. At her initiative, a Constitutional Commission has been set up, which is working and has already made a partial decision and carried out consultations. Other significant reforms have also been carried out. I will be allowed to thank and congratulate President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl for his very good work. She will have her place in the history of the Storting. And finally, Mr. President, because we have sometimes allowed ourselves to disagree a little bit about your eager commitment to the so-called women's cause and representation, it is a special pleasure for me to wish Grand President Kolle Grondahl luck at being County! [[(Ambition in the hall) (Acclamation in the hall)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-15.ana.ud1648e16646	This was most unregulated, but thank you for the words! Good summer! [[Laughter]]
