ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e27	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Gry Larsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e51	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Bjørn Tore Godal Guri Ingebrichtsen Otto Gregussen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e70	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. Norway has six transport aircraft in very poor condition. There are crack formations on the wings and hull, and the planes should have been replaced for the longest time. Now it is also the case that Norway has undertaken to make these transport aircraft available as part of international efforts. What does the Minister for Defence intend to do to solve this acute problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e79	It's true that our Hercules planes are starting to spring. They have made and continue to make a very important and significant effort. It's also true, unfortunately, that there are recently revealed wear damage on these planes that may be more extensive than what we had the basis to believe for not too long back. I am now awaiting a more detailed assessment of the condition of the aircraft from the Air Force and from the Defence Command, and I hope it will come in the near future. No such final assessment is available. But it goes without saying – and that’s the Stortinget and not least the Defence Committee – that we’ve been looking at the possibilities of renewing this fleet for a long time. At some point it is clear that the cost of repair and maintenance exceeds the cost of new acquisitions. When the intersection occurs, it will depend on the state analysis that the department receives in the near future, hopefully. But I want to add: this is just one of many examples of a defense that is in decline because we don't have the power to convert the defense, and for that purpose, there is now a proposition for consideration in the committee. The aim is to release funds for other operations – except for wage costs, we have too many employees in the Defence Agency – more money for skills, more money for initial investment and innovation. Of course, this will also come to the attention of the Air Force.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e84	I agree, to the extent, with the state description given by the Minister of Defense, but my question was what the Minister of Defence intended to do to get a faster replacement of the Hercules planes. As I know, the planes are in such a bad condition that the defense has to hire alternative planes in order to meet its obligations. If it is that we have had a defense in due course for a long time just because the Storting has failed to give sufficient funds, among other things. for initial investment, a natural question will be — since these transport aircraft are mainly produced abroad and it would therefore not be appropriate to claim that it is inflationary to renew material in Norway by purchasing it abroad — whether the Minister of Defence will come to Stortinget with a proposal to invest in new aircraft as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e89	As I just said, it depends on a detailed assessment of the condition of the aircraft in the Defence Command and in the Air Force. Now, when many people are standing on the ground, it's because you want to have a thorough review of the status of everyone, and there's no indication that that review is clearly negative. It may well be that extensive repairs will go well for a long time. But then how long is part of the ground material that we've been asking for. It goes without saying that it is not possible to answer the standing question about when we are going to get new planes. It depends on the analyses that come in from the military. And then we're going to invite the Storting to discuss the questions, depending on the reports we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e94	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e97	I assume that the Government has presented a proposal for future defence within the framework of which the Government believes is right, and in relation to other priority tasks. In Stortinget on 4 December 1998, Labour Party representative Bjørn Tore Godal said that the defence budget was dealt with in a situation where children and old people feel maltreated in the budgetary process. Now it seems that the Storting will push the Government to spend even more billions on the Defense. If the Minister of Defence had had 3 to 4 billion more to go with, would it be planes and frigates, or would there be better kindergartens, more environmental policies and a better care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e104	That was a difficult question. But I assume that the representative would like an answer. Now the Government's proposition is in the committee. There will be a lot of noise in my mind – excuse the expression – for me to give in to speculations about what can become a majority for, and not a majority for, in the Committee on Economic Level. I have noticed that representatives of the central parties have sent out a press release that they have problems with getting pressure anywhere, for some reason, where it appears that a person is based on the government's economic level, subject to what may result from a possible defence policy settlement. It is well pointing to the fact that the distance between the economic level of the proposition and what may result from the treatment of the Storting may not be very large. But it's impossible for me to quantify it in billions of dollars or hundreds of millions of dollars. That's why it's hopeless for me to give me into a question about it. This issue is now being addressed in the groups, and of course, there will be a comprehensive consideration of the issues such as: The representative, Mr Andersen, is preparing the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e112	The President will recall that additional questions have to be related to the main issue. Ingvalt Godal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e117	Of course, the Council of State is right in the situation description when it concerns the defence, but I think he forgets the most important reason, and that is that the Stortinget has agreed long-term plans for the defence, but then they undermine the same plans by not following up in the annual budgets, and so we are lying where we are. And if you don't get this fixed, we're going to lie down where we are, once again, in a few years, only on an even lower level. When it comes to the transport planes, we had this thing here in the house a few years ago. Already then, the information we received from the trade union team indicated that it was worth buying new ones rather than patching up the old ones. I have not heard that something has changed on that page. I'm assuming that's the same situation today. And then it is economical for AS Norway to buy new aircraft now, possibly adjusting to the requirements for repurchase if it would select problems for the temperature in the Norwegian economy. Would the Government consider such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e124	Yes, it goes without saying that in the light of the state report that will be available from the Defence Command, we need to discuss that issue on a broad basis. And as I said in a previous answer, there's an intersection between the cost of maintenance and the cost of damage and the profitability of initial investment. The Storting found out that the crash point had not occurred, and therefore one was to realize new transport aircraft for not too long back. We'll see if the new state review updates a new attitude to that question, and I won't predict that. It is true, of course, that one of the many explanations of the problems in the defence is that we have not followed up on the Storting of the adopted long-term programmes, and it has the address of a great many in this Chamber and internal priorities. I remember that if we were to maintain the defence structure that Stortinget has adopted, we should have defence budgets of well over $30 billion, so this is a problem for all of us. And that's part of the basis for the government to vent the idea of a defence policy settlement, where the political parties commit themselves to a level in the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e131	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e134	In yesterday’s TV debate ‘Holmgang’, Prime Minister Stoltenberg said that ‘the voters have a right to know before the elections what the government options will do with important welfare schemes’. That is why my question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs about the Governmental Alternative Workers’ Party – I now understand that it is all alone – to clarify very clearly what they will do in the coming period with the disability regime in relation to the Sandman Committee. Are you in favour of or against the proposals that lie there? What will the Labour Party do with the sickness pay scheme? I register, among other things: opinions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which fully support the proposals of the Sandman Committee. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is managed as known by the head of the Workers' Party. Do you agree with what is said here, or does the government have other opinions? And a final point: what is the Workers' Party's view of the future and funding of the people's rights, except to refer to a sample? As you know, the matter has already been investigated by one sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e141	There are major and important questions that are addressed here. The Sandman Committee has investigated both the health pay system and the disability benefit system and the growth in the two areas of concern to all people in Norway, I think. This matter is so important that the government has actually chosen to spend a long time making the social partners fully agree. We know that there's one question that there's no consensus about. In fact, the rest of us have a broad consensus on that. One issue concerns the sickness pay scheme and how it should be handled. I have to say that is one thing in the Sandman Committee's investigation that I am very pleased that there is agreement on, and that is the need for a significantly greater prevention in the workplace. What's happening to the sample investigation now is that we're working on it to present it to the Stortinge this year, as we promised. It's important that we be able to agree as much as possible. What is clear, however, is that we do not weaken employees' rights in terms of sick pay. It has been stated by the Workers' Party for a long time. It was also asked about the future of popular fear. Here, a pension commission has been set up, with all the games on the Storting, including the Right and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e152	My question was basically at a quote where the Prime Minister said that the parties were going to make it before the elections. Now the Minister of Social Affairs has prepared a process, no position. Does the Workers' Party have a position on these matters for which the process is now described? I can be very specific and rather ask in a different way – in the hope of an answer: Have, for example, done so. The Labour Party has some view of the way in which the Social Democratic Government in Sweden has tightened up the sick pay system, with a proportion of 20 pst. And Karen's Day? I record that the Prime Minister in Norway describes the estates of 10 p.m. as a frenzy of welfare schemes. What is the Social Minister's description of the Swedish scheme? And I stress that the social democrats do not have in their election program to change the proportions of the Swedish sick pay scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e164	I'm not going into the Swedish health pay system, but I'm going to say something about the Norwegian. As I said in my previous answer, the Government does not intend to change the workers' rights in the case of the sickness pay scheme. On the other hand, we are following up the other parts of the Sandman Committee's investigation on which there is broad agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e171	There will be follow-up questions – Are Nose.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e174	The payment of sick pay and disability benefits is increasing alarmingly. The significant increase is due to long-term sick leave and an increase in the number of persons with disabilities. This is essentially – approx. two thirds of the cases – talk about mental disorders and stress disorders from the musculoskeletal system, which particularly affect women in care professionals. Will the Council of State in its work on this put the emphasis on these relationships, which are the most significant, and which are the most striking, both human and economic?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e181	Fortunately, the increase in sick pay now seems to be on the way down. I am very pleased about that, and I think it is an effect of the fact that the scheme is now being debated. We know from the past that attention to the questions is also involved in reducing the payout. In addition, I was asked here whether I would like to focus particularly on women with mental disorders – as far as I could see. We know it's a big problem. We're following up the psych reform. In addition, we will get to work and look at how prevention can be done at work. There's still a lot of health to pick up for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e189	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e192	So if I understood the Social Minister correctly, it is that the Right puts a critical search light on the health pay system and gets it under debate, which makes sick leave go down at the moment. We must then – on that basis – have a worthy role in Norwegian policy. We did the exact same thing at the beginning of the 1990s. It was then a decision on the composition of the parties between the NHO and the LO to look at sick leave in a three-year programme, just out of work, in order to take action on the environment at work. The first year of sick leave fell. After that, it rose - and reached new record heights. Is it not time to make a fundamental reassessment of whether we are going to have one social system in Norway that is 100 pst. compensation, when the Workers' Party is behind all other social arrangements that give no more to people than between 50 pst. and 60 pst. in compensation? The sickness pay scheme is the only scheme that gives 100 pst. compensation. Why is it that a person who is ill for one and a half years can have a proportion of between 40 pst. and 50 pst. on recovery, while it is terrible if you have 10 pst. The first year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e201	That the medical pay system is being debated, I think all the parties and not just the Right should be credited for. It's important. The same thing happened at the beginning of the 1990s. The Labour Party doesn't want to introduce Karen's days in the same way that Right will, because we know that it doesn't work. It didn't work in Sweden either, as was pointed out here, except for a very short period of time. What is likely to work, on the other hand, is that the employer is much more involved in paying what is needed, because then it is an economic incentive to get people back to work, and sick pay and disability are not a way to park labour, labour that we do not want, and which may not be 100 pst. Good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e208	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e211	The Sandman selection itself indicates that the changes they propose in today's sick pay scheme will affect the low pay in particular. We know who's low-paid, we know who's most exposed to sick leave: they're the women. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Labour Party, after thinking highly about the Sandman Committee's proposal when it comes to changes in sick pay, let it go. We support that. Then, in its first response, the Council of State says that it is important to focus on action at individual workplaces. My question is, What initiative does the Government take in this way? The center administration provides an idea bank, an instance instance of the workplace, an opportunity to report and collect examples. What makes the government council more aware of the idea bank, and what other initiatives will it take?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e218	We will follow up the many proposals of the Sandman Committee and present them to the Stortinget. And it will come in good time before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e223	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e226	Another very important welfare scheme is the popular return, and not least the regulation of the basic amount, which has been subjugated over many years, so that the average purchasing power development of pensioners has been weakened every year. Is it now that the Government is going to commit itself to a massive increase in the basic amount, so that purchasing power developments will be better for pensioners as well, or will the Government continue to pursue the policy they have sadly pursued over many years, and underregulate the basic amount through annual social security schemes, so that purchasing power developments are even worse for many of the pensioners who are already having difficulties? This is a very important welfare system that should have been clarified by the Government before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e231	The regulation of the basic amount or the popular settlement has just arrived in port, recommended by the parties, i.e. the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the LO and the Joint Organisation of disabled people, this year as last year. It's the two times this government has had the opportunity to do something about the basic amount. So we follow up on what we've said, that Norway should be a good country to live in for retired and disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e236	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e239	The question is two-part, and the first one should be easy to answer. Now the Council of State says that the government's conclusions to the Sandman Committee's investigation will come in good time before the elections. Does it mean, in concrete terms, that we are being presented with it in the context of the revised national budget? Furthermore, in the case of sick leave, we see that long-term absence is the main problem. As Are Næss was also concerned with his previous question, we see that especially women in care professionals are struggling with problems because of the strain these professions represent. In the context of looking at sick leave overall, the Government will also look at the causes of sick leave, for example. occupational diseases? Until now, care professionals have been excluded and not recognised occupational diseases related to that type of absence and long-term absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e249	I agree with the representative of Ballo that long-term absences are worrying, and that it is particularly important that we look at what is happening in the nursing and care professions, both in the interests of those who work in these professions, and because we want to recruit more people for these professions in the future. We are constantly looking at occupational injuries and that kind of problem. As the representative of Ballo is well known, it is not always as easy to determine what is professional and what is not, in case of long-term wear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e256	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e259	The Minister of Social Affairs has now, in the same way as other members of the Government, confirmed that the Workers' Party does not intend to weaken employees' rights. I'm glad. That's the same position the Centre Party has in the discussion on the sickness pay scheme. However, in response to the representative Solberg, the social minister said that what will work is that employers pay much more. Does this mean that the Government intends to make proposals about how increased costs should now be passed on to employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e264	What is proposed in the Sandman Committee’s investigation is that the employer should enter the entire medical period. I think this is a very good proposal. How we're going to solve it in relation to where all the expenses are going to be, I'm going to come back when I bring the matter before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e269	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e272	I understand that the Minister of Social Affairs is reluctant to deal with political issues. The representative Foss asked a question about the relationship between Swedish and Norwegian social policies, not with the aim of interfering in Swedish social policies, but to ask questions about the policies of a social democratic regime in Sweden, is of such a nature that the Norwegian Labour Party and the Norwegian Government find reason to distance themselves from it and distance themselves from it. Otherwise, the Minister of Social Affairs said that there would be no weakening of workers' rights. It makes me ask a real fundamental social policy question: Does the Government think that the workers are the most underprivileged group in Norway, who have the most need to be protected from the slightest excess, or can there be other groups in the Norwegian society there is a greater reason for a social minister to take care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e281	There are many groups in the Norwegian society that demand the attention of the Government, including the workers and the way in which we are going to have sick pay schemes. For the Workers' Party, the work-line of social policy is the most important tool. This means that keeping people in work and working life as far as possible is a key objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e291	I also have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. In previous spontaneous questioning, there was a dialogue between the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister’s candidate for poverty in Norway. I see the Workers' Party as a party that is concerned about getting them better. We in the Christian People's Party take all measures to achieve that. When it comes to the reason that we've got more so-called poor children in Norway, it's said, among other things. from Marit Solli, the leader of the Salvation Army's slum station, that the progress we have now is probably due to the changes in the transitional benefit. As the Minister for Social Affairs knows, it was the Labour Party that proposed changes in the transitional aid that are exacerbating the single caregivers. The Labour Party received support from the Right and the Progress Party to do so. We now had the full effect of these changes from the turn of the year. What does the Minister for Social Affairs want to do to fix this? These measures will directly help many of the so-called poor people. And what thoughts does the Minister for Social Affairs have in relation to any changes in the laws when it comes to transitional aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e300	In the case of poor children in Norway and women receiving transitional benefits, it is largely not the case that women receiving transitional benefits are poor because the transitional benefit has improved considerably, but it has a shorter working time. What is expected now is that when the child becomes three years old, mother – or father if he is the lone parent – will have to work to support himself in the usual way. It's true, as the representative says, from 1 January this year we got the first group to lose the transitional benefit. We have followed closely to see if it is such that many of them now go to the social office. I'm glad to say that's not the case. There's actually not many of them. But what we're looking at is whether the right thing would have been for those who go from transitional benefits and have not got a job or are in relevant education to be connected to the employment office and unemployment benefits and have rights to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e307	Thank you so much for your answer. I would like to add that I am aware that it is not those who are in transition, who have the big problems, because they have good support, and they also have some of the cash support, which means that they actually have good financial conditions. But it's because you have the cards down on the possibility of getting transitional benefits, that some of them have problems. What I want to challenge the Minister for Social Affairs is: Can't the Labour Party reconsider whether you could combine transition aid and work for longer than you can do today? Before, an actual person could do that for ten years. Anyone who has children knows that it can be quite tiring. If you're alone about responsibility, it's not easier than if you're two to share it. Combination solutions, e.g. half in work and half in transition, would be good help for many of these families. In addition, the fact that there are few debts does not help much. In fact, if few people have to go on social welfare – and most people get into work – it should be little expensive to change the legislation so that they can keep the transitional benefit for more years than they can now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e319	I have to remind the representative that this is actually how we create new social security schemes, so we might recruit more than we would otherwise have. As for the duration of the transitional benefit, I am actually very happy that it has now become shorter. When the transition aid came in its time, there was a help for women living under conditions where they were totally economically dependent on a man, who might not be kind to them – they were going to get the chance to get out. What has happened in society in the meantime is that most women actually choose to work, and so do most women with children. I think the very best social policy tool is that you can be at work when the child is three years old and can be in kindergarten. It's better to live on your own income than to depend on whether it's a man or a state.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e328	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e331	I'm going to ask the Social Minister a question that goes on some of the same topic that we've been dealing with before, this with Difference Norway. We've got the concept of new-rich, but we've also got the concept of new-poor. The Labour Party is obviously more concerned about the first category than the last, at least if you look at tax policy. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has now indicated that the ceiling for the top tax should be adjusted, which is around 300000 kroner today. I'm more concerned about those who now really have problems getting their ends to meet. The poor children were the theme of the previous question. We have lonely caregivers, we have sick and elderly people, not least the minimum pensioners, who get big problems. Our tax system should then really serve for distribution and solidarity and be based on taxation according to the ability principle. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether it should not be a better socially-oriented tax policy to talk about a bottom-up tax, which gives everyone tax relief, not least those who have major problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e342	The government of Stoltenberg is busy raising those who have the least, we've been doing that as long as we've been sitting. We have put forward a social and economic security plan that focuses on employment, housing, income protection. We do this because we know that those who are poor in our society have little connection to the world of work for different reasons. It could be disability, it could be drug problems, it could be low education. We're looking at this. We also know that housing prices are part of making people poor, we're doing something about it, and not least we're doing something about the income hedge for some groups that have fallen off. We're looking at the children's allowance for the disabled, and we're looking at the opportunities students who get seriously ill should have to not get into an economic trouble because of the disease. We look at how we can help people who have had long-term care tasks at home, and who no longer have them, to get back to work. Tax is also a possible tool, but as a social minister, it is these schemes that I have concentrated on.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e351	I thank you for the answer, but I think there was little answer to the tax and the social profile. I agree that there may be other ministers in charge of fiscal policy, but in my view, social policy in relation to tax and tax matters has a responsibility for everyone in the Government. It is also the case that those currently taxed on the basis of social security and pensions have lower deductions for income less than DKK 140000 than those with employee income and deductibility. I think the government should look at these things. And if, as I said, we are going to have a fiscal adjustment and a reduction in tax burden, it should be primarily for those who have problems getting the ends to meet. So the social minister mentioned among other things. housing prices. It is not her prayer to that extent either, but she was now involved in action. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: has the government now discussed measures in relation to the huge increase we are getting in the electricity price next year, for those who have problems with living, not least housing and electricity costs? With a triple here, even more with low incomes will have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e360	The government presented the redeployment budget of the times when we presented the budget that we are now running, and as far as I know, the Central Party was also involved in a settlement. I am pleased because there was a significant redistribution. We keep tracking the power prices, and if we think it's necessary, we'll also take action there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e367	The President is aware that many people appreciate regular customers. So does the President. There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e372	There are many forms of taxation, and some of them hit the poorest and the sickest most. And excesses, which are taxes on sickness, or taxes on care needs, are a form of taxation that SV deeply disagrees with, because we believe that taxes should be taxed on ability and not on whether you have poor health or whether you have a care need. Reducing excesses would, of course, be a measure that helps both sick and old and also many children and young people, who now have to pay for excesses because they are either unlucky and sick, or because they are taking part in activities. Can the Government propose to provide an action plan to reduce the use of excesses in particular in health and care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e379	We're concerned that excesses should not be eliminated unfairly. I feel quite certain that most of us are able to pay a delicacy when we have to go to the doctor with our flu a rare time, or what reason we are now going for it. But those who have significant costs in relation to their disease shall be screened. We also have a roof in relation to some healthcare services, and we have looked at the possibility of providing a roof 2, as the Storting has asked. We found this very difficult to achieve, because there are three parties that require, and they require so different things. But what we've done, on the other hand, is we're dealing with what's really precious. The dental service is one of them, and this with rehabilitation is another. That's where we've done something. These are questions that we're dealing with all along. It is also necessary to follow up the Jensen Committee's investigation, which took this up a long time ago, and we are now working on this in my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e388	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e391	Governments include several groups to which action is important in relation. I would ask her to supplement the list with those of the single caregivers who have the difficulty, cf. The question from the Valgerd Response Centre Haugland. Many measures are important, and this is why the Equalisation Communication adds to the improvement of public services, a more offensive housing policy, a softer workline and a fairer distribution of taxes. This is exactly what we're talking about, and it's not supposed to make one of these bets on some of these pieces, and not on the rest, because then there's a large group that's low in income, which still has to pay a huge amount of income in relation to people with higher incomes. [[The President clubs.]] What's the Plan for the follow-up of the Smooth Message? [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e401	As so many times before, the President reminds us that speaking time is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e407	As I have already said, we have actually submitted and delivered a budget that redistributes on the tax side in a completely different way from what the central government did in the years they sat here. But I'm very happy that we agreed to a settlement in this respect. We have no plans to add to the taxes of those who need it the most, we are for redistribution and have also shown it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e417	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e420	It is true that the tax may be the least problem for the low-income groups in Norway, while the level of charges and costs in Norway is the main problem. And what it actually looks like is that there has been a trend in recent years that the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the middle parties, has chosen to finance its increases in budgets by increasing the charging sector instead of cutting off schemes. One example of this is that the year's budget has just been aged 2 1⁄2 cents in an increased electricity charge. It is intended by the Ministry of Local Government to cost a minimum pensioner in a three-room apartment $600 more a year, a normal family with one child $1,200–1,300 a year – in a very carefully funded house. And there was no compensation for these groups in the state budget or the conciliation. Does the Council of State regret this? It is not in line with what the Council of State has said about a more social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e425	As far as the electricity charge is concerned, it is clear that it affects everyone who has very bad advice. But it's also the case that those who have very poor advice get housing support, as well as that we have regulated G in such a way that we have actually received support from the organisations that represent the social security recipients. So we've also made it possible for them to live with the costs that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e430	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e433	I have a question for the Social Minister. On 2 May, the Prime Minister was here in the spontaneous Question Time, and questions were then asked about the situation of poor children in Norway. The Prime Minister replied, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. "What we've done is several things. Among other things, we have presented an action plan in the long-term plan to combat poverty, and we have presented new guidelines for social assistance rates.’ As far as the long-term plan is concerned, it is understood that there is something far ahead of time –once in a blue moon, as it is called in English. In the case of guidelines on social assistance rates, his answer does not make it clear whether this means a improvement. Can the Minister of Social Affairs state precisely how social aid rates can help to improve the situation of poor children when it is indicative and it is the municipalities themselves that actually decide the rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e445	I'm going to stick to my mother's goal and explain how far it is on the social and economic protection plan contained in the long-term programme that will be implemented over the next four years. In terms of how the social assistance guidelines can improve for poor children, recommendations are made to municipalities. We have municipal autonomy today, and I want that to continue. But we still make recommendations on social assistance, where we introduce our own age-rated rates for children who will make children in the municipalities that follow these guidelines better. This has been done in other countries, and it has been shown to have an effect even if it is not made as norms.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e452	So we see that a number of rates are not determined by the municipalities themselves, but based on a basis of calculation established by the State. Examples include sickness pay, rehabilitation, rehabilitation and disability. We see the same thing with the child's back. We are talking here about the group in the country that gets worse and that there is the greatest need to ensure through targeted measures under state control. It would seem most surprising, then, to argue that it is precisely in this area that the municipalities themselves should determine it. This must therefore be taken out of the context of the municipalities, without ensuring access to funds through the guidelines. Can the Minister of Social Affairs justify why one looks so different at social assistance to the poorest in relation to the other rates that are determined by the state, and that thus comes out equally, no matter which municipality in the country you have to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e459	I have to remind you that social assistance is not a social security. Social assistance is meant to be an economic aid in a snipe roof where, for some reason, you do not have your own income. There are countless reasons why people suddenly do not have their own income. It is my view and the government's view that the usual thing in this country is that you live on your own work. If you fall out of your own work because of illness, we have schemes that follow it up, which we've already discussed for several rounds here today. If you lose your job, we also have arrangements for it. The other reasons are so many and so diverse that we need an individual review of everyone. When we choose to say that this is what the municipality must do, when we give norms anyway, it is simply for the municipalities to get some help in calculating the daily consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e466	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e470	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Very many municipalities now have serious financial difficulties in implementing the construction of hospital and nursing homes according to the approved plans – this is due to strong wage and price increases. The cost per person unit today in most municipalities is 40-50 pst. higher than at the introduction of the elderly plan. The investment grant was initially set at NOK 830 000 per year. health place, while the actual costs according to the Häsbanken's own annual report for 1998 showed an average construction cost of 1.1 million. kr. And the cost has increased since that time. Will the Minister of Social Affairs take the initiative within the Government to increase the investment grant both for hospitals and nursing homes, so that the municipalities that started a little late in their construction can have the same reimbursement schemes as the municipalities that started first?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e479	With regard to the further development of the elderly plan, we have discussed it in detail in St.meld. No 34 for 1999-2000, which was dealt with here not very long ago. So instead of going for increased cost coverage for each unit, we chose to increase the number of units by 5,000. We see that the municipalities are still planning, and we see that there is still a great interest in the scheme, which makes me feel quite confident that it will be implemented anyway. What we have to do now is distribute the remaining structures to the municipalities that have started late and that we have regular contact with, through the county, the county doctor and the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e484	I thank you for your answer. I think it was a remarkable answer to my question. Nome Municipality of Telemark has now completed the construction of a nursing home with 70 seats at a cost of 1.4 million. kr per. Possible values are: space, space, space. So the cost is 75 pst. above the basis for reimbursement per cent. the date of issue. If the municipality is to do this, you have to deprioritize other priority tasks, not least in terms of children, youth and care. As I see it, both the Government and the Stortinget fail in the promise given to the municipalities to finance nursing homes and nursing homes when the reform was established. Does the Minister for Social Affairs agree with this assessment, that both the government and the magnificence have failed the promises made at the start of the elderly package?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e495	The government has laid the foundations for a significantly better economy in the municipalities during the time we have been sitting. I think this is the explanation that there are still many municipalities planning and building nursing homes and nursing homes at a ripping speed. Therefore, I can in no way agree that we have failed. On the contrary, I am very happy to see that it goes forward. The main problem is probably how we're going to distribute the remaining units, rather than how the municipalities can't build them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e500	There will be follow-up questions – Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e503	It has also been shown that many municipalities choose to build nursing homes because this will fall less cost-effectively for municipalities. So they have too few places for good-bye care. In order to ensure that adequate provision is made for day care, the Right proposed a higher start-up grant for nursing homes with day care equal to the health home grant, while maintaining the start-up grant for nursing homes that only offer home care. This voted against the Workers' Party, despite the fact that it would be able to provide significant additional spaces with day care and flexibility, not least in relation to users, including: by preventing them from moving to a nursing home when the need for care increases. My simple question is: why does the Workers' Party go against such a solution that could give a much better offer and more places?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e512	What is very important in terms of care for the elderly is that we have many different offers — for those who don’t need much help, for those who need a good deal of help, and for those who really need a lot of help. What we've seen is that offers in the first category were first developed. It was easiest for the municipalities to intervene, and it is easy to understand. We now see that there is a significant expansion of nursing homes. And as the representative, Mr. Sjøli, knows for sure, Stortinget has helped to adopt the criteria that are now being taken into account when awarding, where the nursing homes that are being supported are those that have a care base close by, so that you can get substantial help and support in nursing homes as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e519	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e522	I have a question for the Social Minister. The Rusvernet Council in Norway describes the drug policy situation in the country as dramatic, exceptional and out of control. These are very strong words from a very competent trade union council. There is an epidemic trend in overdose deaths, and the situation has recently worsened by further acceleration of such serious figures. In addition, there is a dramatic increase in young people’s drug use. The trade union has asked for an immediate plan, and a number of concrete proposals have been made. I take no further note that the serious situation will be reflected in measures coming into the revised budget. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Government prepared to take urgent action to address the serious situation that the Council of Russia calls dramatic, extraordinary and out of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e531	I'm glad the president appreciates regular customers! When it comes to the drug issue, I'm just as concerned as the Trade Council. I agree with the Council that this situation is very serious and that is why we have had a continuous work on it in all areas. Firstly, if we look at prevention, we've reorganized the entire prevention field and led it further towards the municipalities, towards places where people live and where the youth is. In addition, we have developed a separate plan to prevent the use of ecstasy — which may not be so much in focus right now, but which worries me very much because we have so little knowledge of it. Then we work on the treatment side, both with the drug-free and the medical treatment. As far as medical treatment is concerned, it is completely reorganised and described in the revised national budget, which is presented on Friday. I'm not going to spend any more time on that description. And then this with injection rooms has also been discussed, and we are working on it. I think this shows that the government is absolutely working on the matter, but we should be aware that we are living in a country with a very good economy, which attracts those who sell the drug in bulk, because it is easy to get a reserve on it. That's probably the biggest concern. How are we going to stop those who trade the drug throughout the country, as it happens now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e542	I am not satisfied with the answer. We are in an extraordinary situation; many people lose their lives. We know what measures could work in relation to this, and we know the price. I had expected that in an extraordinary situation one would have been willing to take an extraordinary promise and not just describe the ongoing work that has been done in this area, and what is to be done further. So my question to the Council of State is, when she agrees with the description from the Council of Trade Unions of the Russian Federation that the situation is exceptional, does she not see the need to do something extraordinary? The left has a proposal in Stortinget for an immediate plan that contains many of the same elements that the Board has come with, and we hope that the Government will be able to agree to end up with such a lifting as is now necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e552	As you know, at the National Labour Party meeting, it was agreed that we should present an action plan on drugs. It is being prepared and will be presented relatively soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e557	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e560	Now we've been busy both about how social care is going to be and how we're going to be defended, so now I think it's reasonable that the minister who's responsible for us having something to live on in the future will get up to it. Yesterday, the Minister for Fisheries was given great praise for the measures against fishing jacks. I'm busy with the administration, and it's for mackerel. The shipowners' association for purse seine had a meeting with the minister four months ago and received an answer that they did not think was an answer, and they now asked for a quick response in relation to a quota allocation that is the same now for 105 boats as it was for 50 boats before, despite the fact that it is the government that has allocated the 105. And from a larger perspective: what does the Minister do in relation to the EU when it comes to total herring and mackerel quotas, where Norway has clearly come out badly in relation to the EU's quotas over the last ten years? There's a lot of bias. Will the Council of State take strong action here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e567	I have, like Lilletun, found that the new small purse seine association is dissatisfied with an answer as to whether or not to get a larger quota. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the quotas that you have at your disposal are broken down by keys that have been widely agreed in the industry. What's happened in this group is that participation over a period has increased a lot. This means that the quota available to the group is reduced for each vessel, which at the same time becomes more and more efficient. I have a great deal of understanding of the need to create consensus and legitimacy also for distribution issues in the fishing industry. It is currently the case that the Norwegian Fisheries Team, which is the industry’s main organisation on the fishing side, has taken an affordable initiative to go through the total supply of resources in the industry and propose how this is to be distributed. They will deal with this at their national meeting in the autumn, and I am very confident that this process will give reasonable conclusions. I feel that only when this is in place will it be natural to address any redistribution issues. When it comes to questions about negotiations with other nations about whether we have received reasonable quota shares or not, I have to say that this is something that we constantly consider. We assess the stock situation and the negotiating cards we have on hand in the situation. If we find out that we have good cards to manage to conduct a tough debate on increased shares in Norway, we will do so, as we always do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e576	I thank you for your answer, and I have not really drawn the substance of your answer. But this unit feels that it's a long time to wait four months for an answer they think they don't answer all the questions raised in that meeting either. They will then request that there be no further 4 months before they are given an answer. I appreciate the dialogue that the Council of State has with the industry, and I just want to ask for a confirmation that an initiative will be taken quickly in this matter. Then there is a pretty big deal in the fishing industry that the mackerel and herring quotas have come out unevenly in relation to the EU. In any case, it documents the industry quite well in the contact with the signatures with it. I therefore ask for a material and qualified opinion from the Council of State. Is he in agreement with what is claimed in these cases? And is he willing to take forward initiatives that are correcting the historical disk distribution that is now emerging?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e583	First of all, I have explained that I think these legitimacy processes are going to go their way, and then we can look at the questions these mackerel fishermen have raised. It will be done whenever possible. As far as the relationship with other nations and quota negotiations is concerned, as I said, every year we try to argue logically and rationally for the Norwegian positions. We feel that we have had too little herring, and that we have had too little mackerel. But we need to assess our own ability to conduct tough negotiations on fisheries afterwards. This will include, inter alia: depend on, for example, the extent to which you can be expected to be involved. in the case of herds, it is assumed to be present in the quota zones of the other nations if no agreement is reached. We're also assessing this for the current year, and to the extent we think we have the opportunity to achieve with a tough grip, we're going to take this grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e590	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e595	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in the context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 2, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 4, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative of Mr Lodve Solholm. Question 8, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question is moved and answered before question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question is moved and answered before question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik. Question 10, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative Terje Johansen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Borghild Tenden. Question 18, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. Question 20, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has no opportunity to be present. The question will be raised by the representative of Magnhild Byseth Olrud. Question 21, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e633	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e639	This question, from Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e642	In accordance with the President's information, I ask the Minister for Development this question: ‘At the forthcoming World Conference on Racism in Durban, there will be one or more representatives of non-governmental organisations/NGOs in all the Scandinavian and many of the official delegations of the European countries, the exception being Norway. A number of Norwegian NGOs are actively working to combat racism and will play an important role in the follow-up to adopted measures. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs ensure that the Norwegian organisations participate in the official delegation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e651	Norwegian non-governmental organisations are central to the fight against racism. We therefore consider it important and natural to involve the voluntary organisations in both the preparations and the implementation of the World Conference on Racism. During the preparatory work, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has established close cooperation with, in particular, the Anti-racist Centres, which coordinate the work of the Norwegian voluntary organisations towards the World Conference. With regard to the participation of voluntary organisations in national delegations to the World Conference, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has maintained close contact with, among others. the other Nordic countries. Like us, many will take a final position on the composition of the official delegations only after the last meeting of the United Nations Preparatory Committee at the end of May. Since no final position has been taken on the composition of the Norwegian delegation, there is no basis for claiming that Norway should not include representatives of non-governmental organisations in the official delegation. On the contrary, the fact is that representatives of Norwegian non-governmental organisations, as at previous UN conferences, will of course be invited to participate in the Norwegian delegation. Finally, I would like to remind you that, in parallel with the World Conference, an NGO forum is being organised. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides financial support to ensure the participation of representatives of Norwegian non-governmental organisations in this Forum. The government has also provided support through the UN and the country of organiser South Africa. Some of these funds are supposed to be used to allow representatives of non-governmental organisations from developing countries to participate in the conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e666	I see the answers of the Council of State as clarifying. However, it has not been perceived as so clearly in the landscape referred to by the Council of State, in the past. The more positive it is that I perceive that in the post she now clearly says that representatives of Norwegian non-governmental organisations will be invited to participate in the Norwegian delegation. I see that as a clear and positive clarification on the question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e671	It surprises me that there has been no clarity on this issue. It is a long tradition from Norway to include representatives of voluntary organisations in this type of official delegation. I myself have had the pleasure of, on a number of occasions, being an NGO representative in a number of different Norwegian official delegations. This is one of the Norwegian ways of working at this type of event.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e676	The fact that this is the Norwegian way of working is very clear to me. But I also have my hearing and hear concerns. That's why I think there was reason to express the concern. It is all the more gratifying that this unrest has been remedied and that what has been the tradition has been confirmed as a rule in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e681	I have nothing more to add besides what I have said. There is no cause for concern either in this context or in a number of other contexts regarding the participation of voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e690	I will ask the Minister for Employment and Administration the following questions: ‘Competition supervision has asked the oil companies on the base in order to assess whether a possible merger between Kværner and Aker Maritime may be accepted. Based on the previous statements of the companies, it was expected that the answers could be negative for those seeking a merger. According to the media, the Council of State has instructed that the deadline for replying is extended to after the General Assembly of Kværner on 4 May. Why will the Council of State prevent actors from becoming aware of the consequences of a law before decisions are taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e699	Any merger between Aker Maritime and Kværner will be of such a nature that it is natural to consider it under the Competition Act. Competition supervision may act against corporate services if the supervision considers that the acquisition would result in or strengthen a significant restriction of competition contrary to the purpose of the law. This is the background to the Competition Surveillance Authority’s request for the opinion of the stakeholders concerned for a possible merger between Aker Maritime and Kværner. Getting consultation opinions from stakeholders is a common practice in business services matters. The supervision had set a deadline of 27 April, only a few days before the General Assembly in Kværner was to be held. I stress that the Competition Authority is to do its professional work under the law, to assess any merger against the provisions of the law, without interference from the Ministry as the overall authority. But I thought it was very unfortunate if the very process that the Competition Authority had initiated – not the decision, but the process – was to have a direct impact on the general meeting. I therefore asked the Competition Authority to postpone the consultation period until after the general meeting had taken place, precisely because I did not want these hearing opinions to be interpreted in favour of one of the parties. In this case, it is not a matter of preventing the actors from getting to know the consequences of a law before a decision is taken, as the representative Morten Lund claims. The consequences of this legislation would be clear only after a proper assessment of any merger. Competition supervision would never be able to properly assess the competitive effects of such a merger in such a short time as from 27 April to 4 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e708	I thank you for your answer. It is clear, then, that the Council of State has instructed the Competition Authority to stop the investigation and postpone the consultation period. He has then stopped the ordinary job of the Authority, which is laid down in laws and regulations, and it is about taking care of important social interests. It is rare for a state council to do so, and there must be very important motives behind it. Then there are many questions. Who asked the Council of State to do this, who could benefit from the fact that the skepticism of the oil companies did not become known in the dispute over Kværner? If it was a mistake for the Competition Authority to ask the questions, another question could have been asked. My question to the Council of State is then: Is it common for the Council of State to intervene in such a process, in the day-to-day work of supervision, and was the motive, when the discussion around it went as it went, only that the process could disrupt the discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e717	To the last question I have to answer an unconditional yes. We have no intention in the ministry, nor do I as the Minister of Administration, nor the Government, of giving any kind of view in connection with such an important process as this, where it is the shareholders who are to decide whether to set up a board for a business meeting in such a way as to achieve certain objectives. This is not a government question. What is a matter of authority is the ex-post assessment of the actual process and its competitive significance. The assessment of the Authority of any merger would be a matter for the Competition Authority to decide entirely on an independent basis. It will then be up to the parties to appeal against a decision of the Competition Authority. I stress once again that what was my ambition and my intention was just to avoid speculation that the authorities had specific interests. That is why we postponed the consultation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e724	Now the situation is that there has been a decision that was of such a nature that I think we should have celebrated it as if our country team beat Brazil in football. But according to the media, there can be a new round of Kværner’s future relatively soon in the general meeting. Smoking isn't going to go away, says the media. The skepticism of oil companies is now confirmed. And the Competition Authority is then going through the authority process that the Council of State is now saying he should not intervene. Oil companies believe that competition is being weakened, that our base is becoming more expensive, and that Norwegian jobs can thus be lost. The current knowledge of the Competition Authority will be important – according to the Council of State, disturbing – also at the next crossroads, i.e. in the General Assembly of Kværner. Will the Council of State, on the basis of what he has done in the past, instruct the Competition Authority to lock in the statements and scepticism of the oil companies to the merger that may occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e729	Of course not. Competition supervision also acts as advisers in a number of contexts. It will never be the case that the Competition Authority gives any kind of prior commitments, either positive or negative. However, the Competition Surveillance Authority will provide a preliminary response in any context, if actors turn to the Competition Surveillance Authority and ask for their assessment of special dispositions, without obliging the Competition Surveillance Authority to face any objections in the future. That will continue to be the situation, and the Competition Authority will deal with those questions and enquiries on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e734	So we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e740	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister of Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e743	I will then be asked the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «A recent study by the Norwegian Fire Protection Association reveals a serious failure of the fire protection system by a significant number of care establishments in the country. It is also clear from the report that a quarter of our health institutions have had fires in the last year, and in some cases with a serious starting point. What will the Council of State do to improve the fire safety of public care institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e752	Fire protection in institutions, both public and private, is primarily a responsibility for the owner of the institution. Satisfactory fire protection must be a measure for the owner of the care institution in line with, for example: good care, hygiene and well-being for patients. Fire protection in nursing institutions has for a number of years been the focus of fire protection authorities. The legislation imposes strict requirements on the fire safety of buildings where there is a greater number of people and where fire can lead to more than a general risk of loss of human life. Nursing establishments belong to this category of buildings. The owner himself must work actively and continuously to improve fire safety. The fire service is set to supervise fire safety. Such supervision shall be carried out once per. years. Fire protection authorities may impose obligations on owners to implement measures and pursue them through coercive measures. Otherwise, there is continuous work to evaluate whether the current legislation is satisfactory. Among other things, special fire investigations are carried out. to identify any legislative weaknesses or other factors which the authorities must follow, such as enhanced and improved supervision and requirements for sprinklers, which are at the top of the list in this type of institution. Recently St.meld became. No 41 for 2000-2001 concerning fire and explosion protection submitted to Stortinget. It provides a broad range of fire protection areas, including a discussion of the need for stricter requirements for structural and fire technical measures in features with major-accident potential. I expect that the material presented in the big news gives Stortinget a good opportunity to discuss different measures to reduce the fire risk of our institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e767	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Hospitals and nursing institutions need to have the most stringent fire safety requirements, since a fire in hospitals, and especially in nursing establishments, can be disastrous due to the physical and mental condition of patients. Head of Division Thor Kristian Adolfsen of Norsk Brannvern The Association states that the legal knowledge of the local fire department is not good enough, and that the head of the fire department in the municipalities has problems in making the necessary demands for their own employer, who is the municipality. Will the Council of State ensure that the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection is strengthened in relation to local fire surveillance to ensure that the expertise is in place and that they do the job they are to do, regardless of the fear of represals from their own employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e778	This issue is mentioned in the Storing Communication – and devoted wide space. It is quite obvious that the Ministry, through the Directorate of Fire and Explosive Protection, will work intensively to increase the quality of Fire Safety and to ensure that the combination of the municipalities as well as the owner of the Fire Service and of certain buildings does not lead to unnecessary supervision and necessary instructions being carried out. But I can mention as an example that in the terrible fire at Hovseter's home, the police have, even though no one could be loaded into the Hovseter's home for the fire itself, concluded with a fine because the owner has not followed up the necessary oversight instructions given during inspections. That's the way I think it should actually work. The focus and priority shall be given to fire surveillance and those to supervise, irrespective of who is the owner, and there shall be no opportunity for municipalities to disregard any obligations arising from their own fire services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e785	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The so-called municipal autonomy must not be so engrossed as to compromise the fire safety of hospitals and nursing institutions. I think we all have to agree on that. Could the Council of State agree that the local fire-protection officer should be entrusted with the same authority as the main protection officers have in enterprises and businesses, so that, like the main protection officer, the fire-protection officer could impose directly without creating problems for the same fire-protection officer in relation to the employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e794	In my opinion, in the current Fire Act, it is quite certain that the local Fire Service can actually impose a stoppage on the operation if the activity is considered to operate contrary to the directives and fire protection regulations that exist. The local fire service has an obligation under the law to allow the consideration of residents of institutions, residents of single dwellings and workers in enterprises to take precedence over the consideration of the owner. In fact, I believe that the law today is so strict that it could be imposed automatically without any risk of any representations from the owner. If that were to happen, I would like to agree to sue the owner in order to know such a reprisal invalid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e804	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Finance, is raised by Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e807	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘No deductions are made for the purchase of motor caravans registered as lorries for industrial use. Motor caravans with large cargo spaces and overnight accommodation can be a suitable means of functioning in industry. Many suggest that several Equations Offices and County Tax Offices have accepted a deduction from the input VAT on the purchase of motor caravans for industrial use. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the legislation so as to provide a clear basis for granting such a right of deduction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e816	Under the VAT law, there is no right to deduct from input VAT the value added tax on goods and services used exclusively for the transport of persons, including acquisition, maintenance, use and operation. It also applies to establishments registered in the VAT staff and therefore does not entitle the acquisition of a passenger vehicle for use in taxable activities to deduction. What should be regarded as a passenger vehicle is further defined in its own regulation of the VAT Act. Motor caravans are considered a passenger vehicle in this context. In that case, the right of deduction for the inward charge is generally curtailed, even if the vehicle, in addition to the passenger transport itself, is used for the transport of goods and the overnight accommodation. The acquisition of a lorry for use in taxable activities entitles to deduction of input VAT, provided that normal use for the transport of goods is made. The Ministry does not know that in practice the deduction of input VAT from the purchase of camping cars has been accepted in contravention of the rules mentioned herein. I would like to stress that the VAT is a consumption charge. The abovementioned provisions are intended to abolish the right of deduction for input VAT for the acquisition of a consumption-like nature in the context of taxable activities. Other countries have similar provisions, such as Sweden. I cannot see that there is a basis for extending the right of deduction for acquisition, etc. of passenger vehicles, including caravans. In this context, I also point out that these provisions were continued in the context of Stortingen's treatment of the VAT reform. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the tax law applies to other rules regarding the deduction of costs for a car in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e833	I thank the Council of State for the answer; I am of course disappointed about it. One sees that the motto of the Workers' Party stays up: with taxes, taxes and public intervention, we should become weighed down. If you buy a truck with lockers and sleeping places and perform the same service – I know one who has such a camper – everything is fine. And when a camper can be registered as a truck, I don't see the problem here, because we don't have the ability to treat it the same way. The Council of State then says that VAT is a charge on consumption. Can the council then explain to me how the use of a camper registered as a truck for the transport of goods and as a bus space is consumption, while the use of a truck for exactly the same purpose is not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e842	I just want to point out what I said in my main response, that if you buy a truck for a fee-paying business, it gives it the right to deduct input VAT, provided that it is normal use for the transport of goods. The key question here is, of course, the question of goods transport and industrial activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e847	The Council of State also states that the Ministry does not know that there may be a discrimination between individual tax offices. We're in the middle of a statement that it's likely that this will happen, because this may be a question of judgement. As the legislation opens up the possibility for a motor caravan to be registered as a lorry, it is not so difficult to understand that a discretionary decision by some offices will then be that yes, ok, when a motor caravan is registered as a lorry and may be in accordance with the legislation, perhaps also the motor caravan in commercial activities should be assessed in the same way as a lorry. It is only then to note that the Council of State is not willing to change this, to facilitate the development of jobs, so perhaps others will have to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e854	I would just like to stress in general that there are many particularly difficult limitations in VAT legislation. Here we are facing one of them. I have also shown that it is not known from the department that in practice an in-depth VAT reduction on the purchase of camping cars has been accepted in contravention of the rules that I have explained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e864	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The countries most active for exports to Norway of the greenhouse product during the Norwegian production period, e.g. Denmark and the Netherlands, have comprehensive exemption schemes for energy taxes and also agreements on energy saving measures. In Norway, the greenhouse industry has had a marked decrease in income, among others. as a result of a high oil price. Will the Council of State take initiatives to ensure a more stable and predictable framework for this industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e873	Let me first show that the general framework conditions of the greenhouse industry and the development of income are largely regulated by the agricultural agreement. Agricultural organisations have the opportunity to address issues related to the framework conditions and income development of this industry in the negotiations with the country. Since the agricultural negotiations between the organisations and the state are now under way, as I know, I do not think it is right for me to address specific questions that are now being debated. The representative Meltweit Kleppa refers to the framework conditions of the greenhouse industry in other countries. I would like to remind you that the Norwegian greenhouse industry is essentially delivering products to the domestic market. By practicing import protection at some very high customs rates, the industry is largely protected from competition from other countries. For many products, customs duties are set in order to comply with the provisions of the agricultural agreement on target prices. This includes, inter alia: compensation for overall higher costs and lower efficiency in Norwegian greenhouse industries compared to the greenhouse industry in other countries. Since many products in this way are largely protected from foreign competition, it is not particularly relevant, in my opinion, to see this issue in relation to the competitive situation with other countries. The representative points out that the greenhouse industry has suffered adverse income trends as a result of high oil prices. However, high oil prices generate increased real economic costs that affect all uses of petroleum products. The fee for fuel oil proposed and introduced in 2000 by the Bondevik government has, among other things, intended to prevent an increase in the electricity charge from providing a transition to an increase in the use of oil for heating purposes. Only the three processing, herring and fishmeal industries are exempt from this levy. These are industries which, unlike the greenhouse economy, are highly competitive. In addition, the growth industry has a good tax framework. The industry is exempt from the electricity charge and has a higher depreciation rate for operating buildings than for other buildings. In addition, the greenhouse industry is also subject to other specific tax rules applicable to agriculture, including: the specific deduction from entrepreneurial income and lower social security contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e882	I thank you for your answer. This is about reduced revenues, and it is about a weak competitive situation in Norway. For an oil-only tomato/gurgatory crop, the price rise from 1998 to 2001 is 103 pst. The increase in costs due to increased oil prices is estimated by the industry itself to be NOK 110 000-120 000 per year. annual work. This may be called an accidental effect. I assume the Minister of Finance agrees with me on that. The growth industry, as the Council of State says, has an exemption from the electricity charge. The basic fuel oil charge, which is introduced to prevent the transition to oil as a result of increased power prices, thus frames users who do not have the possibility of such a transition. Will the Minister of Finance take a closer look at the situation that the industry itself is now doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e896	I record what the representative here says, and I also record the views that have come from the industry. In general, I would like to underline what I said in my initial reply, that the agricultural industry has the opportunity to address issues related to the framework conditions and income development of the industry through the negotiations with the state, and that it is a natural place to address these kinds of questions. The second is, as I also pointed out, that the fuel oil tax proposed and introduced in 2000 by the Bondevik government was intended to discourage an increase in the electricity charge from providing a transition to an increase in the use of oil for heating, and thirdly, that the industries with such an exemption are highly competitive and in a somewhat different situation than that of the greenhouse industry. However, I will take with me the views that the representative here is going to take, in the further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e905	When it comes to the competition situation in Norway, let me say that the industry itself has a different opinion. But I'm glad that the Minister of Finance also says that he wants to take these points back. I find reason to remind you that for the first time in history there was a section on gardening/ horticulture — and potatoes — in the treatment of the agricultural message last year. There is something that the Minister of Finance should pay attention to. A collective committee says: ‘The Industry Committee considers that the industry continues to have the potential for further development and production, value creation and employment. The Committee would therefore point to the need for instruments that provide optimism and investment incentives.’.» Then, following the finance minister’s proposal, the Storting has now in 2001 aggravated the situation when it comes to fuel oil taxes and, therefore, to a decision outside the agricultural negotiations. I ask the Minister of Finance to follow up on optimism and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e917	I must again be allowed to show that the reasons given by the government Bondevik in relation to the fuel oil levy were precisely that this non-discrimination compared to the electricity tax should not lead to a generally increased transition and that no exemptions were proposed for the greenhouse industry in the same way as for the woodworking, herring and fishmeal industries. Despite that, I notice, as I said, what the representative says, and take it back with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e925	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In 2000, 14 635 abortions were carried out. This is 356 more than the year before. The increase has been strongest in the youngest age groups, the highest since 1990. We are also aware that after the attack was non-prescription, there has been a sharp increase in sales of this, in the first 3 months an increase of 83 pst. What is the Government doing to follow up the action plan ‘Prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion 1999-2003’, which the central government presented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e934	It's true that last year it was done 365 or 2 1⁄2 pst. more abortions than in the previous year and that the rate of increase was greatest in the age groups below 25 years. Over the entire period we have this statistics for, i.e. However, for the last 22 years, there have been fluctuations between years. Health authorities monitor developments closely and constantly assess whether specific trends or causalities can be identified. In general, care should be taken to attach too much importance to individual observations in such a context. Action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion is followed up by the State Health Authority and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in the same way as under the previous government. Substances that are given particular attention in the implementation of the action plan include: measures that contribute to strengthening young people’s sexual security of good knowledge of sexuality and prevention local, easily accessible health services for young people, easily accessible to prevention; There are a number of ongoing measures to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion that can help to strengthen boys and girls’ ability to set borders. This work is directed by the school, the health centre for young people, school health services, organisations and teams, and I attach great importance to this work. Centrally, the Department follows up the following actions: the SUSS telephone is a youth counselling phone aimed at preventing unwanted pregnancy and abortion and the Sexual Health Phone is a service for adults. In cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Educational Centre develops guidance material for teachers for the teaching of togetherness, sexuality and prevention. The guidance material will be distributed to all teachers in secondary school before school starts in the fall. The project ‘Tests on community life and prevention guidance in municipalities 1997-2000’ is part of the final phase. The aim of the experiment is to increase the availability, to strengthen information and guidance on and to increase confidence in pills such as safe contraception through the right of prescription for healthcare sisters and midwives and in the case of free distribution. The results of the project will be published in the near future. It is important to follow closely the trend in abortion among young people in order to counteract adverse trends. Increased abortion rates among the youngest in some counties are to be taken seriously and the special efforts made in relation to teenagers and young adults in the counties are to be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e964	I thank you for your answer, but I will follow up. One thing is that one cannot take the swings as seriously as the minister answers, but when we see that there is a strong increase in the younger ones, I thought we should take it as a precaution. It's simply the most vulnerable group. Now we've actually given more information, we've made the contraception more accessible, we've done a lot of things to get the number of abortions. And those who want the attack to be non-prescription have said that if it does, it will lead to fewer abortions. But when we see that it doesn't happen, my question is, how much weight has actually been attached to the ethical dimension of the prevention and abortion counseling? One thing is to get answers to techniques and what one can use to not get pregnant, but the other that one must also pay attention, especially to the younger ones, is the ethical dimension: to be able to stay out of it, to have a grip on it – not only that the prevention should be available, but also that a focus on ethical matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e973	I want to go back again to my answer to the main question and say that the follow-up to the action plan on which it was asked happens according to the same guidelines and with the same effort as was the case under the previous government. I fully agree that when you get single observations as in this case, there is every reason to take it as a warning and follow developments very closely to see if this can be an expression of a trend that is not desirable. What I meant to say is that you might want to be careful to draw conclusions about trends or causalities based on individual observations. I would also like to say that it has been relatively short of time from the pill that this is about – the emergency prevention game – was approved for non-prescription sales, until you have the observations that are shown here. I believe that it is too short to draw any clear conclusions on causality. But I would also like to say that the ethical aspects of this work are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e982	The action plan also focuses on research into the prevention of unwanted pregnancy, including in particular: Norway’s Research Council’s Research Programme, Preventive Health Work, for the 1997-2000 programming period. Has the government gained new and useful knowledge through this work that can be used as a basis for preventive action in the future? That's the one part of my question. The other one is that we may have two ways to look at preventive work. One is to prevent pregnancy, and the other is to prevent abortion when pregnancy is a fact. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health to answer whether the Government will ensure that good guidance is available in the future, and that one does not add up to a cut, for example. in the voluntary provision we have when it comes to aid and support for unwanted pregnant women, simply an alternative to abortion in Norway. The budget proposed by the Government for the last time was cut quite drastically. We were able to fix these cuts again and more. Could the Minister at least be a spokesman for this organisation to keep its support?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e987	I feel so absolutely responsible for ensuring that good guidance is given in these areas. I can confirm that, without allowing me to go any further into the budgetary implications of that. However, it is a clear responsibility to ensure that good guidance is provided both in the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and in the general context of abortion. With regard to the first question, what knowledge or conclusions can be drawn from the research that the representative here refers to, I just have to admit that at the moment I do not have an overview of what gives me the basis for giving an adequate answer. So I have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e997	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: « State health surveillance considers the state of the school health service to be critical, according to the Evening Post on 26 February 2001. Reports from county medical practitioners reveal violation of laws and regulations in 63 pst. by the municipalities surveyed. The political leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health would not comment on this information at the time. What does the Council of State think should be done to strengthen school health services in both primary and secondary schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1006	The preliminary reports of the supervision of the school health service, published in the Evening Post on 26 February of this year, were taken up in the Questionnaire on 7 March by the representative John Alvheim. I commented on the facts that had been revealed by this supervision. The final report of the State Health Authority has not yet been completed and transmitted to the Ministry. It is planned to be available in the near future. In a preliminary report by the State Health Authority, from the joint supervision of school health services by county doctors in 60 municipalities, it is said, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Surveillance shows that most municipalities offer school health services. The municipalities prioritise school students in primary and secondary schools. Most of the shortages are in secondary schools where the offer is absent [[10 municipalities]] I quote: ‘It is also apparent in some municipalities that their own evaluation and reporting do not lead to changes despite the awareness of regulatory infringements. The deficiencies identified in the supervision will be followed up by the county doctors.’» School health services are governed by local health law and by regulations on health services in schools. The school health service is a municipal responsibility and is financed through the framework appropriations for the municipalities. Health promotion and prevention for children and young people is a focus of the Government. The main national health centre and school health initiatives are as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox The action plan for mental health 1999-2006 is intended to be central to the development of health centre and school health services, especially in the field of youth provision. In order to increase efforts in the psychosocial field of health station and school health services, the State has earmarked funds for these services during the planning period of 800 annual works.2. National Cancer Plan 1998–2003 proposes a total of 100 million. to strengthen the local involvement of municipalities in the prevention field of diet, exercise and freedom of smoke, the planned period as a whole. Some of the funds are distributed between the State Tobacco Injury Council and the State Nutrition and Physical Activity Council. Work on children and young people in the field of nutrition, exercise and smoking is followed up by prevention advisers at county medical centres. In municipalities, health station and school health services are important actors in this field.3. In the Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion 1999-2003, it will be made available annually for approx. Ten million. kr such as, inter alia: shall go to municipal projects by strengthening the provision of services at the youth health centre, prevention guidance and multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral cooperation with the school health service.4. ‘Head of Health Station and School Health Service’, which was sent to all municipalities in 1998, is intended to increase health promotion and primary prevention efforts in a way that has a positive effect on the health of children and young people. The overall objective of the activities is to support the municipalities in the desired conversion and the continuous quality improvement work of the health centre and school health service.5. In the field of training, dissemination and research, the State Institute for Public Health has competence in these key areas of health centre and school health. Furthermore, the State Institute for Public Health develops methods of knowledge management and disseminates research-based information and knowledge to relevant users in municipalities.It aims to build up the environment of competence, to strengthen multidisciplinary provision of continuing training in health promotion and prevention, and to focus on children and young people and the health and health services in, among others. «Prevention health research programme» by the Norwegian Research Council. Finally, I would like to say that the report by the State Health Authority will contain concrete proposals for the follow-up to the supervision of the school health service. Further action towards municipalities will be assessed in the light of this final report and the proposals it contains, as soon as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1045	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer shows that a political pressure is needed to produce results, as the Health Authority has not yet been able to complete this report with which they have worked – I believe it is – half a year already. I have also noticed that the measures mentioned by the Council of State are plans that were launched by the previous government. School health services are then integrated into these plans. It's good and good, but it turns out there's a need to follow up on this. School health services are, of course, a low-threshold service, and it is very worrying what is now being revealed. Several measures, such as cooperation with other agencies, may be considered necessary. the protection of children, but it is also important to clarify the responsibility of the school owner. Especially when it comes to high school, the Council of State was also concerned. Will the Council consider giving the school owner responsibility for the school health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1058	Firstly, I would like to say that the report we are talking about here, which points to the fact that we have been working on for half a year now, is the result of the special supervision of the school health service that was set up in 2000, which was carried out during 2000. We have therefore received the preliminary reports, and the Health Authority, naturally, spends some time not only compiling and concluding these reports, but also developing proposals for actions to be implemented to correct the errors and weaknesses revealed by the supervision. That report is expected to be available in the near future. I think it is a reasonable time that has been spent on this, and it will also be my responsibility to continue the proposals that come from the Health Inspectorate on the implementation of measures. It is true that the plans that I referred to here are plans developed under the previous government. I have no problem saying that there are good plans, and that it is an important responsibility not only to develop the plans, but also to ensure that they are implemented. I think it's actually more important than now to develop even new plans just to be from a different government than the one that actually presented them.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1065	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I registered that he did not have any new answers and would not go into the question of whether one would consider giving the school owner responsibility, so that it is not necessarily only provided for in the municipal health service law, as it is today. Governments also pointed out the need for resources. But what I feel it is most needed is actually political attention from the Government – yes, also from the Council of State – to the school health service and the shortcomings that have also been revealed in the preliminary report. My question to the Council of State will be: When will the Council of State come to the Stortingen with the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1074	With regard to the very specific question of leaving this responsibility to the school owner, the answer is that there is also some of the things that there will of course be an opportunity to assess in the context of the presentation of the report that we are now awaiting. As far as political attention is concerned, of course, I should note that there is a need for it. I would prefer to draw that attention first and foremost to proposals for concrete improvement measures, rather than simply stress the importance of following up the responsibilities assigned to the municipalities here, but both are fully possible. First of all, I am now focusing on developing the concrete follow-up actions after the supervision that has been carried out. I expect to have a good opportunity to come back to the Stortinget to explain it in connection with the proposals that will follow in budgetary terms or in other ways to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1081	We go to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1087	This question, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1090	Then my question is asked to the Minister for Health: ‘Today, the legislation is such that a mother in a father’s dispute may refuse to take a DNA test by the child in order to compare it with a similar test of the alleged hazard. Throughout the country, there are a number of fathers who claim to be the father of children to whom they are not. Does the Council of State agree that a legal barrier must be introduced in order to require the child to be DNA tested in hazard matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1099	In agreement with the representative Sandberg, I will answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Initially, I would like to briefly explain the rules of the Children's Act on the definition of fatherhood. Legal danger to a child is usually determined either as a result of the marriage of the mother or as a result of the child’s father’s immediate recognition of the child’s danger. The public is responsible for determining the dangers of a child when this does not result from marriage or recognition. In such cases, the parties are usually required to take blood tests to provide evidence of the biological hazard. The Children’s Act provides both the County Stryck Office and the right to order blood sampling. If a blood test is not given voluntarily, the court may impose a periodic penalty payment until the blood test is given. Instead, the court may decide that the person concerned may be picked up by the police and made up for a blood sampler. The rules on who may be required to give a blood test and the coercive measures that may be used apply to both the mother, the child and those indicated as fathers. Where the hazard is established by recognition or by marriage, each parent may refer a change to the court if he submits new information indicating that another person may be a father to the child. Under the applicable law, blood sampling may be relevant in the context of changing hazards in two situations: first, on application by the court and second, on the basis of voluntary action by the parties. In order to intervene in the personal sphere of individuals, it is important to take into account the legal certainty of the individual. These considerations are taken into account where blood sampling is imposed by the right through the procedural barriers to which changes are permitted and through the assessment by the court of the need to impose blood tests. In cases that do not go to court, blood sampling may only be carried out with the consent of the parties. Where the conditions under which proceedings may be brought before the court are not met, the interests of the parties' personal integrity shall be such that one party shall not be able to require the other party to take a blood test against his will. If the mother or father is to file a case for the change of father, the matter must be raised within one year after he/she became aware of the information indicating that another may be a father. The background for this is the consideration of calm and stability around the hazard. Following the danger of recognition means that the man in question has deliberately chosen to stand as his father and assume a legal and social obligation. This may apply despite the fact that he knows that there are other possible fathers. It could result in an unfortunate outcome if a man who has acknowledged the danger despite having information that another person may be or is the father of the child should be able to wait as long as he wishes to have the hazard lifted. The rules of the Children’s Act on changing fatherhood are based on what is best for the child, including the need to calm down on the relationship. In this context, the interests and needs of parents must give way to the child’s interests and needs. In order to protect the child’s interests, the Children’s Act lays down rules on the right of children to be heard and gives the child more right of self-determination as the child grows older. These rules will also mean that blood tests cannot necessarily be taken by larger children against the will of the child, even if a father wants a blood test. In many cases it will be best for the child to be made clear about the biological hazard. However, it should not be such that the individual father should be able to require at any time that the child prepares for blood sampling in order to clarify his or her doubts about the hazard. Such a rule could be contrary to the best interests of the child in the individual case. The child’s need for clarity about his or her fathership is ensured by the fact that the child can always sue for a change in his or her fatherhood. Children over 18 years of age may decide whether to perform blood sampling. So if the child does not want to attend, his or her parents' ability to be sure of his or her father may be blocked. On this basis, I'm not sure if it's best for the child to introduce a rule that gives father an unconditional right to oblige the child to submit to the DNA test. However, amendments to the Children’s Act will always be considered if there is doubt as to whether provisions of the law are in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1118	I think the council points to the problem, and that's good, but I get a little disappointed and startled at the conclusions. Because I interpret the answer so that the government and the council interprets the child's best to that that it's not for the child's best to know who is his biological father. What is the problem is, of course, the actual interpretation of the child law on parental responsibility. So the right to consent in personal relationships for children prevents the father from investigating whether he is actually the biological danger. Now there's a little bit of change in this, and in the first round I want to ask the Council of State whether the Government also assesses whether this is a violation of human rights, a violation of the Equality Act and a violation of the Children's Convention, not least Article 8(1) of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is precisely doing this by preserving the child's right to their own identity. That's my first question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1130	I believe that it has also previously been assessed and concluded that the legal status we have in this area does not represent a breach of human rights, equality legislation or the other provisions to which the representative Sandberg refers. In any case, I would like to believe that it has also been assessed in the past. Since this is not my professional responsibility in the government, I am not going to be categorical as to whether this has been assessed in recent times, but at least I will now ensure that this is clarified. Otherwise, I guess it's not that my answer should be interpreted there that I don't think it's generally at the best of the child that there's clarity about the biological hazard – that's what I thought I was going to say – but there's some difficult balances about legal protection for the individual in imposing DNA tests to clarify the hazard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1137	It's interesting what the council here says, because in Bergen's Official Journal today, Peter Lødrup, professor of family law at the University of Oslo, says the following: «Legal men shall be refused the tests which may confirm or invalidate danger.» He goes so far that in some cases he calls this murder. He talks especially about this with inheritance rights, where some fathers are sentenced to give away everything they have to children with whom they are not even related. We also have one thing that's happening in the media right now. In the Outer Follo court there has recently been a case about changing fatherhood according to the Children's Act § 6, where father has won through that he has among other things. have been on the Internet, obtained an application and then sent a DNA sample of the child to the United States. It is now fully possible to circumvent the law by practicing it this way. Doesn't the Council of State see that we should change the law that exists today, so that we get it according to what will be practiced in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1149	I don't know the facts that this refers to, either in the case of Professor Lødrup's statements or the case that I understand has gone into Follo's right of lord, and I can't see it here and now say anything about whether I believe that this or other circumstances should lead to changes in the law. But I have no problem saying that both the kind of judicial decisions and professional statements can well provide the basis for the issues raised here being assessed, and the point of view put forward here, I would also like to take back to my colleague in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1154	Questions 8 and 9 will be answered later. Question 10 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1160	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Once again, ATC at the Rørosbanen will be delayed and not completed before spring 2002. This was supposed to be in place before the Asta accident. All the deferrals and increasing costs cause great dissatisfaction in users and weaken the confidence in the railway. Neither in the NSB nor in the Railway Station does it seem to be the will and resources to ensure future passenger traffic on the road. Is it closure the Government's objective, or will the Government propose measures and funds to enable, safe and probable future operation of the track?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1169	The background that automatic train stop, ATC, has not been put into service on the Rørosbanen is linked to the follow-up to the recommendations of the Åsta Commission on, inter alia, to carry out a design review of the signalling and securing systems on the RV, the so-called NSB-87 system. The signalling systems at 14 stations are now being upgraded and renewed. It is this work that will not be completed before spring 2002. The development of ATC along the Rørosbane was completed in the summer of 2000. Operational tests have been carried out and the installation has been approved by the State Railway Authority. In order for the remote control of the sections of track with ATC to function as intended, it is necessary that the signalling and securing systems operate correctly. Something else would give a false security. The railway system initially assessed the situation in such a way that the built-in train stop system could not be put into service until the re-engineering of the restraint systems had been completed and remote control had been put into service. Recently, and in consultation with the State Railway Authority, the Railway Agency has assessed the putting into service of the Automatic Train Stop Facility before completion of the re-engineering process. The Railway Station now assumes that operation on the Røros Railway with automatic train stop can be started from the summer of 2001. There will continue to be signallers at each station until the upgrading of the restraint systems is completed and remote control is put into service in the spring of 2002. I would like to stress that I have no goal of shutting down the Rørosbahn, and I see that from the initiative that I have now explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1178	I thank you for your answer. There are many reasons why such a question comes, and one is that the bet on security on the Rørosbanen has been promised many times. Both before the AST accident and after the AST accident, the deadlines and the level of safety have been constantly shifted and amended and amended and amended. Now the minister says that once again the Railway Agency has decided to put this into operation in 2001. I see it this way, with the history we have in this plant, and the experience we have with how the Railway Agency has managed the safety both before and after the AST accident, that such insurance is not good enough. Is it so that the Council of State can ensure that this comes into operation, or can we once again experience, as we have experienced countless times, that the deadline will again be postponed, and that we get new disappointments and new reasons for not having confidence that this work will be carried out properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1185	It is clearly unfortunate that you have experienced this several times. The background is that the review of the restraint system has proved to be a more extensive work than was thought. It's like when it comes to this work, you don't have a lot of experience. So that might explain that you haven't seen the extent of it. The railway system uses what is available from human resources, and there are no economic barriers to progress. I would like to repeat that delays of this kind are unfortunate, but at the same time I would like to stress that as long as the system is not fully operational, the manual safety management of the Rørosbahn continues. On that basis, the Railway Authority has clearly stated that the safety of the Rørosbahn is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1192	In the last issue of ‘Roadway’, project manager Brede Nermoen states that the reason for delay is that the deadline is not well enough. I think that is an entirely unacceptable explanation. Has the deadline been exceeded for too long and will the Council of State now ensure that these measures are actually implemented by the deadline? If not, there is reason to ask questions about whether the Government is standing by and is going to stand by the fact that the Rørosbanen is still going to have passenger traffic. It is absolutely vital now to give signals to the NSB and the Railway Agency that these things should be put in place and that it is the government's unique policy that passenger services should be provided on the Rørosbahn in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1197	I want to ensure that the railway works have the necessary framework conditions in order to have as rapid progress as possible in the renovation of the plant. What is the restriction is the human resources, because competent people are required to do this. We're in a dilemma that's about to be sure that this is happening in a perfectly sound manner in relation to the time. When we have to choose between these two considerations, it is obvious that we have to choose both a progress and a way of working that provides the satisfactory security. We cannot push this work at a risk that safety is not being properly protected. Otherwise, I just want to repeat what I said in the introduction, that if the government had the aim of shutting down the Rørosban, we would never have gone into this relatively comprehensive effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1207	This question, from the representative of Terje Johansen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1210	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport, on behalf of Terje Johansen, the following questions: ‘In the position of the National Transport Plan of the Committee on Transport, a large majority say that it is urgent to reach a collective solution to Fornebu. Can the Council of States inform of progress in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1219	I refer to the review of Fornebu in the Storingsmessage on the National Transport Plan. The government decided in the summer of 2000 to carry out an additional investigation before a final decision was reached on the choice of collective solution for Fornebu. Extensive investigation work has now been carried out and the case was put to consultation and public review on 30 March 2001. The investigation includes, inter alia: bus, urban railway, road between Fornebu and Lysaker as well as two railway options in the form of the Lysaker branch track and an alternative where double tracks are run via Fornebu, the so-called J6/J7 options. The additional investigation highlights more the consequences of the development of Fornebu for the corridor as a whole than previous investigations. The consultation concluded on 6 June of this year, together with the finalisation of the impact assessment process, will form the basis for the choice of solution. The Ministry of Transport aims at clarifying the choice of collective solutions including funding in the summer/harvest 2001 and briefing the Storting on the matter in the State budget for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1228	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to this question is the concern about the large additional burden on Norway’s most trafficked road, E18, when Telenor and IT Fornebu are at full speed into Fornebu. The last working party government promised that a path solution would be in place first. Then green light could be given for nutrient development. This is not related. My question is, when will the path solution be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1235	I would like to stress once again that there is no collective solution, and that is why it is not a prerequisite that it should be a path solution. Among the alternatives currently open to consultation, which are among the alternatives to be selected at the end of the consultation, and the case, as mentioned, is presented to the Autumn Storing. What made this additional investigation necessary was that we did not have a satisfactory basis, as was the case, when we took over the government last year. It is also true that this additional investigation has provided a number of new information and a number of better bases for making a final choice. Otherwise, I fully agree that there is a lot of urgency in choosing collective solutions for both jobs and housing on Fornebu, as well as for the entire West Corridor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1244	I thank you again for the answer. Very well known, Bærum municipality should treat an exemption request from Telenor and IT Fornebu for entry or start-up tonight. If the municipality of Bærum does not grant this derogation, what will the State do? Will they verify the municipality in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1251	So, as the representative said right now, we don't have Bærum's treatment behind us, but we have it in front of us at this point. Of course, we will consider what Bærum local government will achieve, but I hope and believe that Bærum local government will see that we also have a progress here that will enable the development of the economy to be started by moving into Fornebu. But, as I said, we still have to look at the treatment of the local government today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1259	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark as other counties it has become more and more common for people to use caravans as a cottage much of the year. It shall be moved from its place of residence and back at the end of the season. Often these vehicles are not registered and then test plates have been used to carry out this transport in a lawful manner. From now on, this is not allowed, so you have to pay an annual fee of $1160. Does the Council of State understand that this feels unfair for those who use the caravans only as a cabin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1268	According to the Road Traffic Act, vehicles are to be registered. This obligation to register is partly justified by the general control of the State Road Administration and the police, and partly by the need for information and overview of other authorities with an interest in the vehicle fleet, including: the charging authorities and the military authorities. The regulation on the use of vehicle § 2-6 provides for the use of test plates. This shows that test plates may only be used on a vehicle subject to registration during testing, demonstration, movement or driving during registration. The meaning of the test plates is that it shall be possible to use vehicles for specific purposes for a short period of time before it is natural to register them. On the other hand, repeated use over a longer period of time is not intended to be possible with test plates. A large part of the caravans are used in fixed locations and moved between them once or twice per. years. This must be regarded as normal use of caravans and the requirement for registration will then apply. As there has been a different practice with regard to the use of day-test plates, red plastic plates, on caravans, this has therefore recently been intensified towards the traffic stations. The annual fee for caravan trailers is NOK 1 160 and must be paid before registration, while the daily test plate costs NOK 150 per day. date of validity. This is why many people want to use test plates instead of registering vehicles. That's what today's legislation is. In my view, it is important that the legislation is easy to understand and easy to practice, but at the same time, the rules must, of course, be sensible. I understand that it may be unreasonable to pay a full-year fee for caravans that may use the road network two or three days a year. Therefore, I want to take the initiative to make an assessment of this in order to arrive at arrangements that are both practical and appropriate, both for those who are travelling with the wagons more generally and those who have the need that the representative of Bredvold pointed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1283	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was actually a more positive answer than I had almost expected. This with caravans used as cabins affects a lot. That's about. 20 000 caravans in Norway used in this way. Often this applies to families with children, or to solitude, which seems to be a quite straightforward way of holidaying, especially in relation to their economy. A little on the edge of this can be taken as an example of a work wreck. A work wreck may be carried on public roads, except on motorways if you drive at a speed of less than 30 kilometres per hour. You can imagine that a caravan, hypothetically, can be used as a work wreck and thus transported. Does the Council of State see a parallel here and the injustice of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1292	I'm a little unsure whether I see the clear parallel, because I think that caravans can get annoyed by many other road users if there would be a relatively large number of people driving at a maximum speed of 30 kilometres per hour. I'm not sure that's the way to go. At the moment, I am not prepared to go deeper into the assessments that need to be made, and here, thorough assessments of what is both correct and important for road safety and what is right and important in relation to charging authorities in general. But I repeat what I have said: I understand the problem, and on that basis I will go in and assess this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1299	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope that the practice we have today can continue to rejoice for those who use a caravan and transport it in the way that is practised today, by carrying it from A to B with a test plate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1306	I would say that in this way that I think we need to find a regulation that is more practical than today, for something from the background of the problem that the representative Bredvold is travelling, is that it has been different practice. We do not deserve to have legislation that is applied differently, so we must try to find legislation that is practical and that is sound both for users and for the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1314	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to a notice in Hamar Arbeiderblad on 2 May 2001, no automatic train control, ATC, will be put into service on the Rørosbanen until early spring 2002. After the AST accident in January 2000, it was stated by the Railway Agency that this work was to be carried out and that parts of the plant were already installed. Should not anyone in the Railway Agency be liable for this matter as soon as possible, or will the Council of State even now intervene?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1323	With regard to the question of when the ATC can be used on the Rørosbanen, I refer to my answer to question 11 from the representative Karin Andersen. As I explained in my answer to question 11, the ATC at the Rørosbanen is fully developed. However, this case is closely linked to the design review carried out by the signalling and securing system, NSB 87, along the pipeline, which is part of the follow-up to the recommendations of the Åsta Commission. This work is expected to be completed in the spring of 2002. The railway system is now considering the use of ATC along the RV from summer 2001 as a complement to manual train tracking at stations. Remote control of the Roeros Railway will not be initiated until the design review of the NSB 87 has been completed and the necessary measures have been implemented. This work, as mentioned above, has been completed in the spring of 2002. As I understand it, the design review of the NSB 87 fuselages is a complex and nine-time work, which must be done thoroughly and correctly. I therefore do not want to push forward an accelerated completion of this work. The railway system is still responsible for the safety of the national network, and I have no plans to change this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1332	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not entirely satisfied with it. I ask questions about where the competence of ATC facilities is. Competences both nationally and internationally need to be able to assist here. I agree that the signalling system and the ATC system belong together, and that both parts will work, but the credibility will be released when this is repeatedly exposed. If the Rørosbane is to continue to operate on passenger services, trust must be established and safety properly put in place. I also have no problem seeing that you can combine train tracking with automatic-type safety systems. I think that the NSB might think a little bit more about having something more manual, so that they can also accept the customer and the passenger. But it is quite clear that what was promised was to be in place immediately after the Asta accident, and that according to the Railway Agency was to be carried out, is not yet in order and will not be done in almost one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1341	Let me stress that what happened in the summer of 2000 was the expansion of ATC. What happened then in November 2000 was that we received the recommendation from the Åsta Commission, the Groth Commission, to have a complete reengineering of the plant that was already installed at that time. And that's what you're doing right now. As far as I understand, there are a number of national solutions in these areas. I guess the name NSB-87 also points to that. This means that it is enough problematic to find people with skills in this area, and that reference is then made to the use of the skills that you have, while developing new skills. I would like to emphasise once again that safety is ensured manually as long as this work is ongoing. I fully agree that it is not good to have these postponements here and that the review is drawing out, but we must finally make a balance, whether we should push this work, or whether it should be carried out in a proper and thorough manner. And then, in and of course, the choice is simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1350	I have also noticed that the current project manager says that the date can still be pushed on if things have to be changed. This makes it start to get a little bit tragic, and credibility is pretty thin. I would like to see what it would have been like for another company to have had such a long time to implement something that was said to be a priority and forced to do. Is it not, then, that someone should be held responsible for not having better progress and understanding and competence? Unfortunately, this goes on the whole credibility of the railway system and the willingness to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1355	As I said, I agree that it is regrettable that we have received these deferrals. I assume that when the representative is talking about consequences, there are people who might have to think of something else to do. What is our problem is primarily a lack of good competence in this area, and I assume that the Railway Agency uses what they have in their competence. We're dealing with the economy in that way that there shouldn't be any constraint. Then the best way to go is to make sure that this is done thoroughly and properly. And it's unfortunately so that there have arisen complications that, wishfully, absolutely should not be there. But I think in the long term, trust in the railway is absolutely well served by credibility in that it's done a real job when you're done with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1366	‘The Aviation Administration and Oslo Airport Gardermoen have given signals about a third runway on the Gardermoen. This will mean that very large areas will have to be linked to the incalculable future, making it difficult for municipalities in the area to plan effectively and forward-looking. A third runway with capacity up to 170000 flight movements will result in a major expansion of existing aircraft noise and noise zones. What will the Council of State do on the occasion of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1373	I am aware that the Ministry of the Environment, as a department of trade, will take the initiative to launch a planning process to assess land use in the aerodrome area across municipal borders. This includes, inter alia: assessment of any third runway. The long term development needs of the main aerodrome must be a central premise for such a planning process. The planning should take place in close cooperation between the municipalities of Nannestad and Ullensaker, Akerhus County Municipality and the Swedish Aviation Administration/Oslo Airport AS. The Swedish Aviation Agency has informed the Ministry that Oslo Airport AS and the Swedish Aviation Agency have initiated a process for the development of an airport plan for Oslo Airport Gardermoen. This is an internal planning document for the Swedish Aviation Agency and Oslo Airport AS, but also involves the relevant municipalities, etc. This document will be included in the ordinary planning work in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. I therefore see no need to intervene in relation to a planning process that is under way, in which all stakeholders will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1382	Now, Gardermoen has an estimated capacity limit of 17 million passengers per year. Gatwick, which may be comparable, has a maximum limit of 42 million passengers, and Munich has 58 million max on two runways. This does mean, however, that an extension of the Gardermoen should be seen in relation to an increase in the utilisation rate in the case of passengers. 58 million is a triple of the number of passengers on the Gardermoen, i.e. that the entire population of Norway, all its inhabitants, travels either out or into Gardermoen 12 times a year. And this is what is very unlikely to happen – or what?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1389	It seems to me that there is an underlying tone in the representative Evje saying that it should be noted that the Gardermo in its present form is large enough ‘for ever’. This government is not afraid to take responsibility without a broad analysis. The main purpose of establishing a new main aerodrome was to make sure that we could put it in a place that had development opportunities, and so that it could remain the main aerodrome in – let me say – the unforeseeable future. I therefore believe that it is in everyone's interest, and not least in an overall social interest, that we are making good planning of what needs we have in the future. In this way, we can both ensure the necessary areas and at the same time ensure that the areas that are unlikely to be necessary for aerodrome operations can be released for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1394	Now it's like there's protective areas on almost every side of the existing airport, with the land use you have, so this has quite a lot of complicated factors. It is also such that the noise maps created by the extension of the Gardermo are not working very satisfactorily and have not done so since the Gardermo was opened. This, in addition to the fact that both the municipality of Ullensaker and the municipality of Nannestad will have a significant reduction in their available land and in the possibilities for future planning, makes this a very serious matter, especially because the Swedish Aviation Agency continues to treat these municipalities and residents there, in the same way as when they forced people from Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1399	The noise situation is assessed separately and is in and separately a separate case handled in cooperation with the municipalities concerned. I am absolutely sure that we will have a thorough and good planning process in which all aspects of this come to light – in terms of protected areas, in terms of noise conditions, in relation to any other use of the land. But I think we have to put in the bottom that we've actually located the main airport of Gardermoen with a view to being our main airport in the future. That must be the starting point for the assessments. I would like to remind you that not least the host municipalities were concerned about locating the main airport of Gardermoen, and I think they will make a positive contribution to a planning process. I just repeat: it would be in everyone's interest for us to have a clarification, as far as possible, regarding the necessary aerodrome-near-needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1407	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There is much evidence that the taxation of the cod stock in the Barents Sea is too strong. Today it is largely fished on small fish. For the first time in history, it looks like there's no strong year class. We can face the same disaster as in Newfoundland, with the collapse of the cod stock. This will again hit the northernmost states strongly. This concerns both the fishing teams and the Coastal Party in the northern counties. How do the Councils of State view this, and what action will be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1416	I would like to start by saying that I share Mr. Bastisen's concern about the tax pattern and about the high fish pressure on the cod stock. At the same time, I must stress that the cod stock in the Barents Sea is not near a collapse. I therefore think we should leave the comparison with the situation in Newfoundland. The researchers suggest that the youngest classes of cod are weak, while the intermediate classes of the year, i.e. 4 to 7 years, are at an average level. Fish over the age of 7 are small, and much less than desirable. Thus, the fishable part of the population consists largely of 5- to 7-year-olds. This is reflected in the fact that only a small part of the total cod landings consists of older fish over 7 years. In other words, we don't have an optimal tax pattern, and with today's stock composition, we can't get it either. This is worrying and clearly represents an unoptimal taxation of the population. This situation has to a large extent arisen as a result of a high take-off over time. The main challenge is therefore to bring the extraction down to a sustainable level. If we do that, we will give the broodstock better conditions for growth and ensure a better tax pattern. Norway and Russia have agreed to a cod quota of 395 000 tonnes for 2001, which shall apply until 2003. The quota has been criticised for being too high in relation to the level of allowances recommended by the researchers and for the fact that the quota is not compatible with a pre-goods approach. However, on the basis of the three-year quota, there are scientific assessments that indicate that both spawning stock and fish mortality will be well within the range of the 2004 transition period. However, uncertainties will be whether researchers have overestimated the stock and/or underestimated fish mortality. The growing conditions in the sea and, where appropriate, unregistered catches are two other uncertainties to which we must relate. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, provides new stock assessments and quota recommendations during the month of May/June. Only when these advices are available will we know if the assumption we used for the three-year quota is correct. In the light of the new Councils, the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission will carry out an assessment of the quota level and other regulatory measures for the conservation of cod stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1435	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with him that it is not optimally fished. There should have been a lot more to fish for bigger fish. Now, however, we are in the situation that the cod quota for the conventional fleet is largely confiscated, and there will be stops in the conventional fishing for the coastal fleet from the weekend off. The large fleet of the smallest boats has had to be on land due to bad weather, both last week and this week, and the largest boats have been fishing. Tourist fishing is another problem in this country. According to one report, there is reason to believe that tourists are hauling up to 20,000 tonnes of fish, as well as recreational fishing. What remains of the quota for the rest of the year is about 10,000 tonnes — a quarter of what is fished uncontrolled by tourists and recreational fishermen. What does the Council of State intend to do with this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1446	It's true, as Bastisen says, that the quota for the current year for the coastal fishing fleet, boats less than 28 meters, has been taken. We have taken a responsible approach that we have to do, when this has happened, and this is really most unexpected. As regards the question of any measures to be taken against recreational or tourist fishing, a qualified assessment of their scope is available for the first time. Of course, we will study this carefully, look at the premises, see if there are possibilities and/or reasonable and advisable to intervene on the part of the authorities. At the same time, it is clear that both recreational fishing and tourist fishing are important for the Nordics and for tourists in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1453	I can't say I'm satisfied with the answer. Yesterday we had a debate here in the Stortingen on fish fraud. I called for a report by Lars Peder Breck, while he was the Council of State in the department that the Council of State took over. That report should be the basis for further work on fish fraud. I then asked the question: Did the Council of State know about this report and still didn't do anything about it when he took over the department? Or is it that he had no knowledge of that report, and that it was removed before he came to the department? If that's the case, I'm very concerned about what's going on in the Department of Fisheries. Can the Council of State explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1462	I feel absolutely certain that all relevant assessments of the facts relating to any matter in the Ministry of Fisheries which is not of a political nature, which belongs to the previous regime, I have access to. There has been a report, a draft consultation, on measures in the field of regulatory circumvention which has been at the hearing since 1998. We have taken this into account. With regard to the proposals that we are now presenting to the Stortinget, the representative Bastisen will be able to see that this has been laboriously reviewed and reflected there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1472	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The restoration work at the Heddal stave church in Telemark is about to stop due to a lack of appropriations from the Riksantikvaren. The size has underlined that further allocation of funds will give priority to restorations already in progress. Nevertheless, the Riksantikvaren has only satisfied Heddal stave church with 300,000 kroner, upon application for 1 million kroner. krones. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with Storting's intentions, and what can the Council of State do to ensure Heddal stave church a larger grant?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1481	There is a strong need for maintenance and preservation of valuable cultural memories. This also applies to the stave churches. Significant amounts have been granted for fire-proofing of the stave churches in recent years, and all stave churches have received fire-proofing facilities. But many of the stave churches also face great maintenance tasks. These tasks set specific requirements for both the use of materials and the execution of crafts, and state grants are necessary to carry out the work. The government announced in the 2000 budget that rehabilitating the stave churches would be a priority task in the future. The Riksantikvaren is planning a large stave church project which will have the main objective of putting the stave churches into structural condition so that the antiquarian values are guaranteed for the future. This is an extensive work that will extend over a ten-year period. During the 2001 budgetary procedure, Stortinget underlined the importance of continuing restoration work on church buildings, including Heddal stave church, Utstein Kloster and Stavanger cathedral. The maintenance work of the Heddal stave church has been ongoing for several years through municipal, county and state grants. In addition, private gifts have been given to work. In 2001, grants of 1 million were applied for. kr from the Riksantikvaren to the continued restoration of the Heddal stave church. Appropriations for the restoration and maintenance of the stave churches are granted under the heading of the State budget. 1429.3 Protection and protection of medieval buildings and structures. The means of this item are also used for the protection and protection of other automatically saved buildings and ruins from the Middle Ages. In 2001, the Riksantikvaren granted approx. 1.2 million. kr to the stave churches from this entry. Heddal stave church is prioritised over the other stave churches by the allocation of the year's funds. Ten other stave churches, which have also received grants, have received an average of approx. $50,000 each. The remaining 17 stave churches did not receive grants in 2001. In addition, in the current year, 400,000 kroner have been budgeted for the start of the restoration project for the stave churches, as I mentioned earlier, under the direction of the Riksantikvaren. I therefore believe that the allocation to Heddal stave church is in line with Storting's intention to continue the restoration work already begun at the stave church. However, I understand that there has now been a special situation due to the progress of the work. Therefore, I would like to ask the Riksantikvarten to consider what can be done in cooperation with others to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1498	I am particularly pleased with the last part of the answer to the Council of State. It provides a basis for some optimism. It is quite right that the work at Heddal stave church has been going on for many, many years, and it has been partly shy of still buildings and other things related to the restoration, and this work has been a major nuisance to those who live there, but not least to the detriment of a full display of the stave church as an important cultural memory in Telemark. It is also right, as the Council of State says, that this joins the ranks of other buildings, including the Utstein Monastery and the Stavanger Cathedral, which are specifically mentioned by Stortinget with a wish for completion. And that's because there's reason to ask questions about whether the Riksantik product here has adjusted down something that the Storting actually wants to adjust quite vigorously, in view of a completion. It is deserved in these three places, including Heddal stave church. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to answer whether these are questions to which she wishes to come back in connection with the real treatment of the revised national budget which is now right around the corner, and in this way help to ensure that the funds can come to Heddal stave church.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1507	I can assure the representative Rahm that I fully share the ambitions expressed by the Stortinget in this year's budgetary procedure relating to cultural memories in general, the stave churches more specifically and these concrete projects mentioned in the budget statement. I'm doing what I can to get a good follow-up in a whole. In that situation, there is reason to look at the possibilities of Heddal stave church once more. I believe, however, that this can best be done through the already existing appropriations, and that there is a need for a follow-up to the Riksantik product from my side, which I will certainly do. I would like to point out that we have major challenges in the sector, and that the work of restoring the stave churches will take several years. I would also like to point out the need to have a good professional basis in the project that the Riksantikvaren has started.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1514	I will again be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer. I expect that initiatives will be taken towards the Riksantikvaren for a new assessment of the Heddal stave church. What's special about this church is that it's the largest stave we have, and that at the same time it's a cultural memory, it's also a church that's in use, and for that reason it has to be able at all times. When this project has been going on for so long, I expect the Council of State to have a great deal of understanding of the desire for this to be completed, that the work should not be stopped again this summer – as a result of a lack of budgetary appropriations. On this basis, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, hoping that this will be followed up in the form of concrete funds from the Riksantik product, in addition to what has already been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1523	I confirm what I have said in the previous answer: I will work to get a good prioritisation of the work on restoring the stave churches, and we will carry out an evaluation of the Heddal stave church in particular, in the light of the Storting's decision in connection with the budgetary work for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1531	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1534	«Norwegian Losförbund fears that there will be an environmental disaster when 75 000 tonnes of large bulk ships take over the coal cargo from Svalbard. It is pointed out that the narrow Axle Sound can be arduous to provide for large ships. Svalbard does not have the same obligations as domestic waters of the mainland. Does the Council of State consider that the safety requirements for this traffic are satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1541	The coast around Svalbard, as well as the intruder of the various mining communities, represents risky waters requiring high professional competence and good experience from the navigators responsible for navigation and manoeuvring. In line with a number of other legislations, the Los Law and the Law on Port and Water Water of Svalbard do not apply. The Coastal Directorate, however, acts as an adviser to the Employment Manager whenever this is desired. If permanent coal operations are opened in Svea and the deployment of coal through Van Mijenfjorden and Akselsundet, it is important that safety is adequately ensured. In this context, the staff member has been in contact with the Coastal Directorate on proposals for measures to ensure the entrance to Svea. The Directorate has, after visits to Svalbard, inter alia: the proposed use of ropeboats and the introduction of port unloading. Port unloading means that a known person arrives on board before the entrance begins. In practice, acquaintances are recruited using Norwegian captains who have experience of current tonnage and are known in the waters. The Coastal Agency has experience in the assessment of a navigator’s maritime knowledge. Such an experience has been gained, inter alia. the use of port lice in Norway, especially in Finland. Corresponding assessments are made for navigators who are awarded a certificate of fairway, so that relevant ships carrying such a certificate do not need to be unloaded on board. The coastal works have entered into cooperation with the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani to ensure the quality of the ports in question and the requirements for tauboat assistance. Other measures in place include: marking and introduction of sailing procedures through the Akselsundet. I believe that the safety of today's situation is being properly maintained. However, we will continuously assess the safety of the area, and I would mention that maritime safety around Svalbard is now being assessed on a broad basis by an inter-ministerial working group set up by the Ministry of Justice. The report of the working group is expected to be delivered by the summer or early in the autumn. In this context, we will have the opportunity to assess the overall maritime safety of the waters around Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1556	The involvement in this matter must be understood in the light of recent events of coastal accidents and a strong desire to strengthen these actions. It implies that the precautionary principle must be fundamental to these activities. It is difficult to understand that transport under demanding conditions must be followed up to a lesser extent with unloading requirements than with other parts of our waters which may be less demanding. I would like to ask: can the Council of State assure me that there is no lead from the overall authority for the Coastal Directorate to take economic considerations into account when giving advice in this area? In fact, in the public debate, one here has given advice on the basis of a framework in which one should not go into the economic sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1563	I can very well understand the concern that exists along the coast, in the light of the accidents that have occurred. That this becomes especially important in relation to Svalbard and nature there, is also very natural. When I say that this is not covered by the Los Law, it is actually a formal and legal issue. It is a matter of having legislation. It is not the case that there is no authority responsible for doing so in a proper manner; it is the employer’s. With regard to the requirement of security for Svalbard or elsewhere, economic conditions are not imposed. Security shall be ensured, with the measures necessary for its safe implementation. On the part of the Norwegian authorities, it will never be set ‘a ceiling’ for what it has to cost, for reasons other than safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1572	It's not just the Losing Association that is skeptical of the arrangement that is now being proposed. I record that the headmaster of the Tromsø maritime school believes that the Norwegian authorities' position on maritime safety at Svalbard does not ‘hang on hold’. In any case, it must be an expression of one's concern and not content with the solutions chosen. Now leave it. In connection with the complaint in this area of a decision in the Coastal Directorate of the Ministry of the Environment, is my next question: will the Minister of Fisheries consult the Ministry of the Environment in this matter before giving final feedback on the recording that has been made? The Minister for the Environment has been very committed to maritime safety and can have views that could be worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1579	I can assure the representative of Kvassheim that I and the Minister for the Environment will discuss this and ensure that it is properly maintained. The commitment the Minister for the Environment has in the matter, I share, and it shares the entire Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1587	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The UK Environment Directorate has, after consulting proposals for a new emission permit for radioactive substances from the Sellafield plant, in which the very high levels of radioactive emissions are proposed to be maintained until 2006. Emissions from the Sellafield plant at such a level would result in irreversible adverse effects on fish, crustaceans, farmed animals and the marine environment in other areas along the Norwegian coast. How does the Government protest against these destructive emissions to its British colleagues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1596	In the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment on the UK Environment Directorate’s proposal to allow the emissions of technetium-99 to go unpolluted in the sea until 2006 we state that the proposed level of emissions is totally unacceptable and require a significant reduction of emissions from this year onwards. I have personally raised the matter with my British colleague Michael Meacher during a meeting earlier this year. There he stressed that a final decision was not taken by the British Government. I also raised the matter with my Nordic colleagues at the Nordic Environment Ministerial meeting in February, and invited them to give hearings on the UK Environment Directorate's proposals, as Norway has done. A number of enquiries have been made in the past to the UK authorities, both from the Norwegian side and in the form of joint enquiries by the Nordic Environment Ministers. Norway also cooperates with Norway under the OSPAR Convention, among others. the other Nordic countries to put pressure on the UK authorities to reduce emissions from Sellafield. The reprocessing is the dominant source of the release of radioactive contamination into the marine environment. We are therefore working in OSPAR to save all spent nuclear fuel in the long term instead of being reprocessed. Norway helped to promote a decision on this at the last year’s OSPAR meeting in Copenhagen. The decision was adopted by a majority, but not by the United Kingdom and France. The UK Environment Directorate’s proposal is a consultation paper containing several alternative solutions. The most favourable solution, with Norwegian eyes, is to set a limit on emissions of 10 Tbq from 2001, and that is the option we have asked the British to choose in the first place. The proposal submitted by the UK Environment Directorate means that the current limit of 90 Tbq is maintained until 2006, which will continue to result in elevated levels of technetium-99 along the Norwegian coast. The UK Environment Directorate is likely to take a final decision on their alternative before the summer. Then the British government will also take a decision on the matter in the course of this extension. The government has received a large number of enquiries from municipalities, county councils and environmental organisations requiring the cessation of emissions and the closure of the reprocessing plant in Sellafield. In order to make this commitment visible and put further pressure on the British authorities, on 7 May the Ministry of Foreign Affairs handed over these enquiries to the British Embassy together with a statement of Norway's views on this matter. As mentioned earlier, the Prime Minister will also address the issue of emissions from Sellafield during his meeting with his British colleague Tony Blair in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1607	I thank you for your answer. It is quite clear that there is no world thing that indicates that the UK authorities intend to implement something other than what they are aiming for, namely to deal with the current level of emissions until 2006. There is nothing that contaminates and destroys more along the Norwegian coast than the radioactive substance technetium compared to other contamination, because it has an irreversible effect. And when we see that the adverse effects along the Norwegian coast have only quadrupled in the last ten years, we see where this is going. So just to halve the degradation time of the drug technetium, it goes over 200,000 years. It's known for a relatively long time. It's a too passive attitude to these questions. It does not, in my opinion, hold up requests to the embassy and the two-sided contact you have had so far. No results have been achieved in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1618	I share the concern expressed by the representative Kristiansen regarding the long-term impact of such high emissions of technetium-99 as the most extensive option from the UK Environment Directorate. I do not share the opinion that we have a passive attitude towards this on the part of the Norwegian authorities. Here we are talking about direct enquiries at political level. I am concerned about finding the very best ways we can both protest and gradually reach. The fact that the British Environment Minister has an involvement in the matter, I see as a positive signal. Now we see what Norwegian and further Nordic and other pressure can lead to for the solutions ahead. We have to use all of the channels we have in this work, and hope that it will produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1627	For Norwegian coastal business, for the marine sector, the development we see in this area is fatal. I am sure that the current Environment Minister remembers the characteristics of his British colleague Thorbjørn Berntsen’s environmental protection then well – ten years back in time. Then he used very strong adjectives. Now the adverse effects and level of emissions — irreversible like that — have increased four times. When we remember what Thorbjørn Berntsen called his colleague in the United Kingdom several years ago, and with the devastating effects of the emissions from Sellafield so far, and the emissions to be at the current level until 2006, what does today's Environment Minister think will be the comprehensive and correct characteristic of her British colleagues?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1632	It could be a bit daunting to repeat to the representative Kristiansen that the nature of the environmental protection minister Berntsen did not get so much from the situation we can now point to, so that it might not be characteristic that is the most important instrument for achieving it. Personally, I think that there is only a strong, clear, long-term pressure from different teams, and from the Norwegian authorities in particular, that can produce results in this matter. We need to do what we can to the United Kingdom directly, but we also need to work with other countries, as we do – the Nordics, among other things, to try to find alternatives to reprocessing, which, after all, is the starting point for this whole business. But I can assure you of at least the same strong commitment, even though language usage may be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1640	This question, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture. The question was raised by the representative of Magnhild Offset Olrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1645	After informing the President of the absence of the Minister for Agriculture, I ask the Minister for the Environment: ‘A minor boy has inherited the family property Røhr Groet in Ringsacher from his granddaughter and applied for a residence waiver until his age of authority. The County Agriculture Department in Hedmark has chosen to waive the right of inheritance and recommends that the boy be denied a concession. Will the Council of State develop guidelines to ensure inheritance, predictability and non-discrimination in such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1654	The case referred to was resolved by the County Agriculture Council granting the Peder Røhr concession to the meeting on 3 May 2001. He was granted a concession on condition that he settled on the property by 2013, and then lived and operated the property in a proper manner for at least five years in the context. The boy's acquisition was compulsory and the case was an ordinary concession case under the concession law. The concession law does not provide for special treatment in cases where minors inherit property from a family member. A concrete and individual assessment shall be carried out, including in cases where emphasis is available, inter alia. the connection to the property. The law mentions a part of the aspect to be emphasised when assessing the concession request. Moments to be given special attention are whether the transferee can be considered fit to operate the property and whether he will move to the property to operate it himself. As far as the right of succession is concerned, it is, in my view, well guaranteed in the law by the fact that close relatives can acquire concessional rights. The inheritance of other relatives is ensured by the individual and specific treatment to be applied for. This is a complex assessment in such cases where a number of different considerations apply. It is not uncommon that there may be a different perception of what the outcome of the application should be. The guidelines in this area must not be more detailed than providing room for local and individual adaptations. It is otherwise a fundamental principle of Norwegian administrative law that similar cases should be treated equally. However, the requirement of non-discrimination is so well known that it should not be necessary to address the principle in the guidelines. I therefore believe that there is no need for specific guidelines for cases such as the one addressed by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1674	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that the County Agriculture Board has given this boy a concession. That is not really what my question is about, it is about the cancellation and handling of the matter by the agricultural authorities. I think this specific case shows that despite the recently adopted amendments to the concession law, among others. with the lapse of the right of pre-emption, concession applicants are not guaranteed the respect of the right of succession. Two relatively similar cases, which in this case – a boy of eight years and one of six years, slightly different in the size of farms – should be treated equally. Can the Council of State say anything about this can be improved in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1685	As I said in my answer, I don't think new guidelines are the way to go to ensure what we want to ensure through the law. It is important that the guidelines are not more detailed than they allow for the necessary discretion and the individual adaptations to be made possible by the law. The requirement for non-discrimination is so well defined in the existing law that it should be unnecessary and no more to win by further clarifying it in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1690	So we go back to questions 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1696	This question, from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1699	I have asked the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In 1998, the Grand Duchy decided that the National Historical Centre should be a living centre for the dissemination of ideas in the oldest existing European institution and a centre for the dissemination of both historical and modern political flows. A look-up in the United Nations on 19 April 2001 shows that the function should no longer be to document the development of democracy. Does the Council of State think that this is in line with Storting's intentions?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1708	In St. prp. No 55 for 1997-98, About the marking of the 2000–2005 millennium, it was shown that the events of Eidsvoll in 1814 can in many ways be said to represent the beginning of the history of modern Norway. By taking care of the building where the National Assembly met, as a national historical memorial and a living centre for the dissemination of ideas in the oldest institution in Europe, a centre will be set up to work on the dissemination of both historical and modern political flows. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000–2001 it appears that due to the impossibility of basic conditions on the site selected for the new museum building, alternative location has been investigated. In this connection, the Board of Directors of Eidsvoll in 1814 asked the Ministry of Culture to assess the fire risk posed by a neighbouring building to the Eidsvoll building and to assess the possibility of locating the new building on this site. The analysis of the fire risk concluded that this building poses a significant fire risk and that the demolition of the building is the best and safest option. The new site will provide the new museum with a functional location in relation to the Eidsvolls building. As indicated in the budget proposal, it is assumed that the content, area and standard of the building must be processed in such a way that the project, together with costs already incurred, can be carried out within a cost framework of 66 million. kr. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2000–2001 the Committee agrees to this, and is pleased that a new location option for the Centre has now been clarified. The purpose of the centre, as outlined, is firm, but new location is clumsy until the Eidsvoll building opens up new opportunities that will be safeguarded in the further development of the project. As provided for by the Stortinget, the programme for the building must be processed. In this context, reference is made to the activity analysis currently carried out for the Eidsvoll Foundation 1814 – the Rikspolitische Zentrum, and to the necessary clarification of the purpose of the new building and the context in which it is to be incorporated. The survey in the United Nations on 19 April 2001 shows that walking distances between the Eidsvolls building and the new building offer new opportunities to disseminate the Centre’s objectives. The foundation and development of democracy will always be a dimension linked to the dissemination of Eidsvoll. In addition, the purpose includes both management and communication of the Eidsvoll building and memories of the events of 1814. Work is in progress on the continuation of the project based on the new location. In this context, the Eidsvoll Foundation in 1814 – the Rikspolitisches Zentrum arranges an idea virtue on 10 May 2001. The aim is to present good ideas and ideas that can underpin further planning and work on the functional and space programme for the new building at the centre, in accordance with the Stortinge's intentions. With normal progress, the new building could be completed during 2004 and in good time for the anniversary markings in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1725	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There have been many unfortunate circumstances and – I would say – both poor preparation and poor planning around the establishment of this centre at Eidsvoll. But it now seems that most of it is in place, albeit in a slightly smaller format than before. I have to say that I am very pleased with this location. I think it could be a nice cultural park with the Eidsvoll building and this national political center, where we also work to establish an Ekeland museum. So this can be very good. But there are many with me who are both engaged in and occupied with this, who were surprised at the lookup in the nation, where this again created uncertainty about the purpose. We know there's been a lot of discussion about it. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is now confirming that the purpose of the Storting is to be respected. I have understood that the municipality of Eidsvoll should also be involved and contribute to such an idea, and that the centre should also be completed in 2004. I hope that this timeframe will last, and I am satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1734	It is true that the purpose of the center, as outlined, is established. But it is clear that the new location also offers some opportunities that need to be looked at. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Culture has this in his safe hands and that this will be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1739	The most important thing for me was to confirm that what was the purpose of Stortinget with the centre is firm, and that we have now also got a time frame for when this centre will be finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1747	This question, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister of Culture, is raised by Elsa Scarbøvik. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1750	I will ask the Minister for Church Education and Research the following questions on behalf of the Minister for Culture: ‘For the first time, a Norwegian produced film becomes the text in cinema. The Landsförbund (Landsförbund) of hearing impaired persons bears the cost of subtitling the film «Elling». Will the Council of State take action to make all Norwegian-produced films that receive state film support available in the text version?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1759	Opportunity to introduce a requirement for Norwegian-produced feature films to be texted for hearing-impaired persons will be considered. What's clear is that it costs a lot of money to pay for the captioning of films for cinema. ‘Elling’ was reasonable because there is a digital laboratory process behind the film. However, the vast majority of films produced in Norway are processed by analogy. In the case of such films, a so-called internationative must be produced on which the text can be imprinted. Then new copies of the film have to be produced at a price of approx. NOK 20 000. In addition, the organisation of the dialogue will be estimated at NOK 10 000. Digital processing makes the production of new internatives unnecessary, and it saves about 75 000 kroner. Consequently, for ‘Elling’, it has been possible to obtain subtitles for a quarter of the cost of a film that is processed by analogy. The audience without special needs will hardly choose to watch a text movie. Although there's a textual version, the viewer actually assumes that the distributor is making an effort to get the movie shown, and then that the cinemas actually choose to set up the movie. ‘Elling’ is currently set at 500000 and is still at the top of visited films. This is an exceptionally good result for a Norwegian film. The film has been a very good shop for producers, distributors and cinemas. The fact that they can now afford to text and put the film on a cinema for hearing-impaired people is positive, but hardly any good indication as to whether texted Norwegian films will actually be shown in cinemas, even if Norwegian films are provided with text. Therefore, it will be necessary to discuss the possibilities of the scheme with distributors and the cinemas before launching a test scheme with subtitles for Norwegian films.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1770	Thanks for the answer. It was a happy day for many when a Norwegian film with Norwegian subtitles was shown last Friday. It's more than 600 000 Northmen who have a significant hearing loss, so it's 14.5 pst. of the population, so there's a large part of the Norwegian people who depend on subtitles to get the connection in a movie. Until the ‘Elling’ film was shown at Frogner cinema, there are no Norwegian films with Norwegian languages that have been texted. There is an eye-catchingly large group of people who have been excluded from film experiences in which others have participated. When it is now said that it costs NOK 10 000 – and even if it can be more for other movies – it is not the big sums we talk about. The Council of State said that he would consider a claim, but I would ask: does the Council of State agree that it is a public task to write Norwegian films, so that it can be made as a requirement to obtain state aid to produce a text film copy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1781	I'm sure everyone would have wanted everything that was produced to be as accessible to hearing impaired people as to hearing. But of course it also has a budget page, so I assume that the assessment of this also has to look at the economic aspects – and also on the distribution side and thus have a discussion with the distributors and the cinemas. As I said in my first answer, this has a lot to do with the form of production. The type of production selected for the various Norwegian films in the future will also affect the cost of this. I can therefore not say more than that I agree with the objective that as many people with hearing impairments as possible will also benefit from Norwegian film, but we need to assess which arrangements we might participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1790	There is nothing new to lyrics Norwegian films, because we have seen them on TV. There are certain requirements for both NRK and TV 2 regarding subtitles for films, including Norwegian ones, because of hearing impaired people, so it is nice that the Swedish Federation of Hearing Aids has now taken the initiative to include cinema films. It should not be the case that a large group of people are excluded from the experiences of Norwegian films and are only left to foreign films. It is stated in UN standard rule No. 10 in the case of disabled persons, working towards the possibility for disabled persons to participate in cultural services, and for countries to take the initiative to develop and use special technical aids to make literature, films and theatres available to disabled persons. I therefore expect the government to follow up this. My question is: what are the appropriate ways the Council of State sees this to be done, for example: in the government budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1799	I would assume that the appropriate way in a government budget would be to grant money for some good purpose in this regard. But I have to say again that we need to have an assessment of different measures and their consequences. What opportunities we have in the distribution of Norwegian films, we get back to. When it comes to captioning on TV, it's clear that it's a completely different technology. If you've looked at the subtitles on TV, you'll have seen that the subtitles are relatively similar from program to program. That's because the subtitles are kind of superimposed on the film that's lying there. When you're going to make subtitles on an analogue film, it's a completely different process, which costs a lot more. There are therefore different ways of doing this and different costs. But all of this we get back to when the review is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1806	Then we go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1812	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Applications for the organisation of examinations for dyslexia students have not been met at the University of Oslo. The same goes for some of the colleges. In St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 sets out clear intentions for user-based organisation to become a reality. Can the Council of State take the initiative to meet requests for organisation now, what measures can be taken until permanent arrangements are established, and will the right to user-based organisation be statutory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1821	The representative, Wisløff Nilssen, addresses issues related to the examination of right-hand education for dyslexia students. I am not going to say that I am sure I know the specific issues that are the starting point for the representative Wisløff Nilssen's question, and can therefore not comment on them individually. It is the governing body of the educational institutions which, in accordance with the Law of the University and the Law of the University of Applied Sciences, lays down the Rules of Procedure of the Examination. It shall ensure that the knowledge and skills of the students are tested and assessed in an impartial and professional manner, while at the same time ensuring that individual students’ needs for organisation are met. The choice of examination form must also not be at the expense of professional requirements, and students who have their knowledge tested through organised examinations must be assessed according to the same conditions as apply to other students. On 14 March 2000, the Ministry sent out a letter to universities and colleges on the study situation of students with difficulty in reading and writing. The study sites were asked in the letter to review the rules and practices for organising the study situation and exams for dyslexics. In particular, they were asked to look at the conditions and extent of organisation of the examination situation, including: use of an oral examination. I trust that the institutions have responded to this call. I expect that the regulation will now open up flexible exams, and that this will be practised so that dyslexics can be offered organized exams, extended examination time and, for example: offer of examination rooms with PC. A working group has looked at various issues related to the situation of students with specific reading, writing and math questions in right-hand education. The report, which was presented in September 2000, contains several proposals that will improve the flexibility of the study situation, including a more organised form of examination. The Ministry is in the process of following the recommendations made by the working group. The work will include, inter alia: be seen in connection with the follow-up of St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001. Conversion of examination forms for all students is an important part of the quality reform. I can't now say what changes this will require in law on universities and colleges. In the consultation process, new legislative provisions will adequately address the special needs of dyslexia students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1834	I thank you for your answer. «User-based organisation», it seems to me to be a very good expression that the department has used in St.meld. No 27. But it's no longer useful with nice words from big business and government if the experiences the students have in everyday life are marked by a lack of understanding and counterwork. That is why I was somewhat disappointed, because I was also thinking about the letter that was sent for approx. a year ago, and had expected a improvement in our exams. Unfortunately, we see that the feedback is about as many as last year. Will the Council of State take a new round to get closer to the intensification that dyslexics have a right after expert judgement, so that they get the arrangements they want? At the latest today, I was informed that a student goes up to writing instead of to an oral examination, which she applied for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1843	The Ministry has no overall overview of whether the situation is better or worse this year than last year. I really hope that the universities and colleges have followed up the letter that was sent last year, and that the rules and practices for organising the study situation and exams for dyslexics, which was the purpose of that letter. There are certainly isolated cases where student institutions make mistakes – it may either be that they have not followed it up properly, or there may be other more formal errors of some sort. I assume that the institutions are correcting this and following what is in the letter. In the dialogue with the institutions, the ministry also has an opportunity not to impose, so at least to draw attention to matters that we do not find satisfactory. To the extent that we become familiar with these kinds of things, I am absolutely convinced that we are also doing what we can to ensure that the individual student gets the organized offer to be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1848	There are action plans for disabled people in our colleges. They are wanted by dyslexics, and departments of higher education have not known about these action plans. These action plans were probably not designed for the Ministry's sake, or only for the'motherhood', to put it that way, but also for the departments below to use them. I've read some of them, and they're very good. My question is: will the Council of State do anything about that piece?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1855	It is clear that the action plans we are making are designed for the benefit of the user groups of each action plan – neither for the political leadership of the department nor for the service of the department. I think we need to convert the entire examination and evaluation system into higher education. After all, we have provided a big message about higher education, where we, among other things, says that we need to place much more emphasis on the student's work throughout the year in different ways – whether there are project work, written work or other things that allow students to be evaluated according to the effort and quality they have put into their study work. I think this will also benefit the dyslexics. I think it's very often the writing skills, more than the professional insight, that determine how it goes on a full day exam on a June day. We know that there are many students who are in that situation – and are going to deal with such a situation – in the days and weeks to come. We will follow up the action plan, and we will facilitate a better evaluation and evaluation form, and I hope we will have the support of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1865	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Samian higher education continues to follow the old national framework plan on dispensation from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, as reportedly pending the treatment of the Nergård Committee. The school also has unsatisfactory premises. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Sami college reaches a qualitatively satisfactory level, both in terms of professional content and in terms of premises for teaching?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1874	The Ministry established framework plans in 1997 which resulted in changes in professional content, working methods and the organisation of general teacher training. At the same time, it was also decided that Sami teacher training should be investigated. The setting of the Nergård Committee was delivered to the Ministry in 1999. The merger and several other relevant bodies gave opinions on the suspension in the autumn of 2000. Pending final treatment of the suspension, the Sami College has been granted a derogation — at its own discretion — to continue general teacher training under the old framework plans. However, the university has adjusted the local curricula so that the teachers are taught up-to-date and relevant under L97 and L97 Sami. In my opinion, therefore, it should not be a qualitative problem that the university is based on the old framework for general teacher training. The future content and organisation of Sami teacher training will be a natural consideration in the teacher education message that we intend to provide to the Stortinget in 2002. Sámi University has a short history, but has quickly reached a qualitatively satisfactory level. Sámi College has done a good job in raising the skills of its own staff, including: by means of doctoral scholarships and the main subject funded by the Ministry. At its inception in 1989, the Sámi College took over a dispensation in Kautokeino. It was an emergency solution that, in the longer term, is not particularly suitable for higher education purposes. In order to facilitate the conditions of the Sami college, a building with reading rooms, libraries and offices was listed. The Ministry has received plans for a new building for Sami college. In addition to higher education, it shall comprise the Nordic Sami Institute, the Sami Archives and the Name Consultant Service for Sami and Finnish City Names. It is also intended that the Sami special-pedagogical centre of gravity within the State Educational Support System and the planned Outreach Centre should be given a place in this common building. The Ministry of Church, Education and Research has assessed the area needs of the establishments subject to the Department and has contacted the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to clarify the needs of their enterprises. Once the land-framework has been clarified, State Building will be able to start planning a joint building for the Sami institutions in cooperation with the users. Bringing together the linguistic and scientific activities of the various institutions under the same roof will strengthen and streamline the environment. As you know, there is a need to implement a number of construction projects in the university and higher education sectors. I cannot therefore make a concrete promise as to when Sami University can meet its needs for better premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1892	I thank the Council of State for a full answer and will show that he has probably – like me – received input from Sami environments that the disappointment is great about that St.meld. No 27 does not mention Sámi College in particular. There are a few lines, while the Dairy Committee, on the other hand, had a larger investigation about this. It is against this background that the question is asked, and from what the Council itself calls the message, a quality message, and also a policy message. I am interested in deepening a little bit more what kind of policy the government has, in addition to what has already been said that the Sami college is the only university in the country to take care of these special tasks from the indigenous perspective and thinking. It has to be grounded. I think it is very important that the Stortinget get a clear message about this already now, after such a long time has passed from the Nergård Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1899	I am pleased that the Stortinget has an engagement with Sami issues in general and, of course, with educational issues. It's not this council that's sorry. But we've chosen to say that we're coming back to some of these questions, among other things. in 2002. It would have been a little unnatural for me to draw conclusions from such work and such a message before we bring it. Among other things, we need to see the Sami teacher training in the context of general teacher training. Sami higher education is important; it does an important job and has a good quality of the work going on there. In the short time it has existed, it has evolved strongly, so we are satisfied with the work done. Of course, we all have a responsibility to facilitate its development, including in the context of other actions and functions that such a joint centre may contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1904	I thank you again for the answer, and I refer to the fact that a committee majority, all except the Advance Party, in the setting of the state budget in autumn, drew up the special focal point function of the Sami college in the field of Sami teacher education. We assumed that it had to have the necessary framework conditions to fulfill this task. It is clear that with poor premises and old framework plans, this is not the recruitment incentive needed to get more people to apply here. And when we also know that there is a great lack of Sami teachers, the situation is quite serious. But now I put my trust that the Council of State will get real speed on this. I have also registered that the Sami college is not on any of the construction plans. Then I ask directly, can the Council of State come up with something more concrete precisely in this area? Can he say that this school is so special that we have to raise it?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1913	When you look at the lists of barley, there are a lot of projects that I would like to raise and say were very special constructions, and this was to be done quickly. We have people in Stavanger who have relatively limited teams, we have people in Eastfold waiting for a co-location of their college, and we have people in Nesna waiting for a new college. I see that the representative Rikvam, from Akershus, is going to ask the next question, and we have a college there waiting for a co-location of a lot of buildings. I think it's going to be natural, when we get a map of this area needs and get an overview of it, see which businesses are going to gather and get a plan from Statsbyggen and the other departments, that we put such a building on the priority list. Where it comes from, I don't know, we'll see about that. This is one of the many businesses that need to be included in such a list, which we have to assess in each year's budget. I assume that the representative Tingelstad hopes that this Council of State will be able to speed up this work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1925	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «NOU 1999:33, Useful lessons, proposed to abolish today's system of so-called primary professional depreciation. St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 does not mention this depreciation, but the scheme is not included in the table comparing the current scheme with the Government’s proposal for a study finance scheme. [[page 71]] Will the Council of State continue the main discipline depreciation scheme for ten semesters or more?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1934	At the end of the 1980s, there was some concern about recruitment to certain higher education majors in Norway. With effect from the school year 1989-90, a partial cancellation scheme was established for borrowers who had completed certain main subjects. As the representative of Rikvam says, it is recommended in NOU 1999:33, useful lessons, that the remission scheme should be abolished. It was pointed out that, with the exception of certain subjects, the recruitment to the main subject is no longer a problem. I have not followed up this recommendation in St.meld. No 27, Do your duty – Need your right, the quality reform. I would like to draw attention to the very strong commitment to the study funding proposed in St.meld. No 27. With a shorter degree structure in the future where students have a very good scholarship throughout the course of their studies, fewer will come up in the higher levels of the depreciation scheme. It may have some economic consequences that can help to strengthen student funding in general. We do not have any concrete plans to remove the primary degree degree, but I would like to point out that this is not a major degree degree, it is a long-term depreciation where you have a graduation from ten semesters or more. It is clear that, in the future, we need to look at all the schemes and see what works best in terms of stimulating students to take the studies they are asking for, if you have a lack of longer types of studies, etc., which was the motivation for this scheme. There are currently no such concrete plans to change the primary depreciation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1945	I thank you for your answer. It was a good answer from my point of view. This means that today's system will continue after we have treated St.meld. No 27, if the Storting then decides otherwise – that's of course the assumption. The current system is such that one for ten semesters will receive a depreciation of NOK 22 000. If you have a 13 vacations, you get a depreciation of approx. NOK 53 000. This has been an important recruitment measure to get students to take longer education. I'm quite convinced, although I don't have data and the facts about it, that this has helped recruit people for primary education. The signal that the Council of State is now giving is fairly clear and fairly unambiguous: this system will continue unless the Storting decides otherwise, which I am counting on the Storing not to do. This is an important signal for the future students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1952	The representative Reikvam points to a very important point: it is the Storting that now has this Storing message for treatment. The government has proposed a historic increase in study funding, the biggest promise in the history of study funding, where the cost standard will go up from NOK 67 000 to NOK 80 000. This is the most important element of student funding: how much do students have to live for while they are students. That's what determines whether the students can be full-time students, or whether they have to spend much of the time that should have been spent in studies, in cash in a store, behind a bartridge or in other part-time jobs. We have also stressed from the Government that this increase must be compensated with scholarships, otherwise the borrowing burden for the students will increase significantly. That's why, as Rikvam says, it's exciting to see what's happening in Stortinget. We know that e.g. The right of the proposal in connection with the Mjøs Committee says that you do not want a grant of more than 30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1957	I am pleased with what the Government has now presented in terms of study funding. Increasing the cost standard is an old and good SV proposal. The Council of State shall be commended for following it and shall be awarded as a grant. That one now increases the cost framework to approx. $80,000 is an important step. That's what students have to live on while they're studying. But then it has the problem when you're done with the studies, that it will be paid back again. It is therefore important that we take care of these depreciation schemes that stimulate students to take longer education without having to fear that they will face a debt burden that is unmanageable when they have completed their education. So the cost standard is very important. This is very good, and I sincerely hope that the Storting will support it even though some right parties have said that this is not the way to go. At the same time, however, it is also important that the Council of State indicates that the depreciation scheme should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1962	It is well possible that with an increased cost framework it is an old SV proposal. I think it's probably hard to find addition suggestions that weren't SV-proposals at some point. We will only be able to record that we have SV's support in relation to the study funding scheme. We know that we don't have Right, if they haven't changed their policy on what they adopted in connection with the Mjøs Committee. We're going to hope that we have the support of the center parties for such an arrangement, because they went to the final election to introduce 40 pst. scholarship share. There wasn't much of it. But luckily, we got a government shift, so we might get it done. It's important that we improve the students' financial condition, then we get them faster through the studies, then we get more skilled labour into the production life, and we probably earn more than we use. This is a positive thing both for the students, for the study institutions, who get an increased intensity in the quality of study, and for the society that can earn great values, not at the institutions, but by people getting out of work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1967	That being the case, it is no. 1 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-05-09.ana.ud2047e1976	There is no record available.
