ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e27	The called alternate of the Vest-Agder counties, Anne Berit Andersen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e40	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e45	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting. The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e50	On behalf of the representative Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to make proposals for the management of the petroleum fund, which takes care of fundamental concerns about both the environment and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e55	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e76	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Terje Moe Gustavsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e92	My question goes to the Prime Minister. There is a broad consensus that reforms in the petroleum sector are needed to increase value creation, so that we can get more out of the North Sea. Now, however, Norwegian policy is so fragmented that it is highly desirable to build broad consensus that can stand. I have understood that the Prime Minister has also wanted to reach a broad consensus between several parties, but it now seems suddenly to be stated by the Labour Party. My question to the Prime Minister is: why has he now given up his idea that we should have a broad consensus on the petroleum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e103	My and the Government's main objective with the conversion of the state ownership that we have presented to the Stortinget has been to achieve a better and more efficient management of the oil and gas resources on a Norwegian base. That is why we believe that something should be managed more actively by the companies, and we have suggested that. But in addition, it has been to secure the state's, community's, income, because these are incomes that we use to fund pensions, kindergartens, health, school and many other good purposes. Therefore, it is appropriate to be very careful to sell over large shares of the country's current direct holdings in the oil and gas sector, because it is one of the country's most important sources of income, which we use to finance school, welfare and many other important purposes. That's also why we've been held back from going too far in increasing the sales of state ownership. I believe that there is still a basis for broad consensus, partly because – as I understand it – there is a broad consensus in terms of extended ownership of Statoil and a stronger Statoil, and because there is a broad consensus that some of the country's direct holdings should be used to strengthen the companies, and then there is some disagreement about how much to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e110	Is it not true that there is such a disparity in the Workers' Party that they are so out of control of the internal dispute that they do not have the strength to work with a broad compromise? It's pretty neat to, among other things, The Minister for Oil and Energy has lost – that was the title of the Evening Post on 20 March. And if the Prime Minister does not intend to move a single position in relation to what he has presented to the Stortinget, yes, then it is not possible to create a broad compromise. The reality is that the party has deprived the Prime Minister of the opportunity to create this broad and desirable compromise. Does it not seem to the Prime Minister that it is simply a defeat that he is not given the opportunity to exercise the necessary leadership in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e117	No, on the contrary, I feel that the Government and I, as Prime Minister, exercise leadership in this matter, on the one hand by getting the case proposed for the Stortinget. It was a major and comprehensive reform, in which the previous government failed to conclude and come up with proposals. There was discussion in the Workers' Party, but we have the ability – although we have different positions – to take decisions and implement these decisions, as we did at the national meeting last autumn. It was taking leadership and taking responsibility for making a good proposal for the Storting. It is also taking leadership to say that we have been willing to negotiate, we have been willing to adjust our proposals, but we are not willing to adjust them as much as the Right, Left and Christian People's Party insisted on in the last few rounds here in the Storting. I still believe that there is a basis for broad agreement on the main elements of the ownership of Statoil, that part of the BEES should be used. But few percentage points here are several tens of billions of dollars, and there's every reason to be careful about selling out too much of the country's direct holdings. It should also be right-wing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e124	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e127	The Prime Minister said he was not willing to adjust as much as the Left, Right and Christian People's Party wants. Now it's saying that the adjustment we want is a significantly less adjustment of the shares to be sold than the Workers' Party's states on the West want and go in for. So this is a moderate adjustment. The Prime Minister has said that it is important to get through the percentage of 20 proposed by the Government in relation to the sale of DEE. Now, the government might have to choose between holding on to this percentage and holding on to the distribution between Statoil, Hydro and other companies in the proposition. If it happens that the Government can't get through its arrangement in both areas, what is the most important thing: to keep the percentage, or to keep the distributions between the companies, as one has worked through and presented in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e134	The representative Kvassheim represents one centre party who was in government for two and a half years and who was not at all able to decide what they thought about this matter. There's discussion in many parties about this, and there's obviously discussion among the former government parties. The Labour Party has also had a discussion, but we also have the ability to make decisions, conclude and submit proposals, and it did my government a short time ago. So after a thorough review, we've meant 20 pst. is sufficient to take out the efficiency gains, the coordination gains, on a Norwegian base that we believe companies can take out. There is no need to sell any more because it may weaken the income base of the country. There's income left and all other parties are very good at spending on many good purposes, and that's fine, and that's why we need those revenues. I think we're all wise not to negotiate in an open-ended hall. There have been discussions in the committee, and I hope that there is still dialogue between the parties in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e144	Kjell Magne Bondevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e147	I agree with the Prime Minister that negotiations should not be held in the Chamber on a matter which is now under consideration in the Committee. But now the Prime Minister has given great attention to the fact that his government has presented a lot of major issues to the Stortinget – the petroleum reorganization is one; the reorganization of the Defence is another. But it's going to be completely wrong when he tries to give the impression that it's just a worker party government that would be able to do it. The cases were prepared, and no matter what government they were sitting there, they would be submitted. A lot could be said about the history and also about the contact we had with the Workers' Party in this matter, which showed that the Workers' Party was far from mature to take a stand at an earlier time. But I'm going to let that lie. One thing is to have these things presented, another thing is to deal with them so that one can get a broad political collection on matters of great national importance. It obviously doesn't have the ability of the Working Party right now. In the case of petroleum, they have their locked positions and show a lack of flexibility, in the case of defence, they put this forward without prior contact, and it has made a broad settlement much more difficult. Does the Prime Minister see that the Government must work in another way and take inward that it is a minority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e156	We're going to negotiate, and we're going to have dialogue in Stortinget. And we have ten years of government experience – from 1986 to 1997 – where we had a majority in various ways for the majority of the major issues we presented to the Stortinget, obviously with some adjustments during the treatment in Stortinget. And I am absolutely sure that all the experience of the Workers' Party in negotiating things in place in Stortinget will also prove to work in ours in connection with the major issues we have now put in. But an important principle is not to conduct negotiations in the main hall, but to run them in the committee. It is not possible to get past the fact that the centre administration had to postpone any proposal on the petroleum activity. We had a deep disagreement, and the center parties still disagree. The working party has shown an ability to take a stand, we took a stand and have presented it. We have also shown our willingness to change and adjust the proposals we have made, but not as much as the Christian People's Party has wanted. My impression was that the Christian People's Party believed that 20 pst. was mostly made. Now the Christian People's Party obviously believes that you have to sell significantly more than that, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e163	Steinar Bastesen – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e166	The Norwegian people are very surprised that we have so much money in this country that we have to put them up in unsafe funds abroad, in a world economy that is staggering on clay feet. So how does it feel to be in the storeroom and say that we need more money, and that we have to sell the national wealth and the future generations because we lack money for schools and kindergartens? The Norwegian people do not understand this. I will regard this as a theft of the property of future generations. Does the Prime Minister understand the concerns of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e171	Now I have just argued in a number of answers against selling too many of the country's direct holdings. It has just been estimated that the country's direct holdings in the oil and gas business are a very important source of revenue for the country and have been so for many years, and we must ensure that. It's income to the community, and that's why the Workers' Party has said no to the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to sell significantly more, because some percentage points here are thus tens of billions of dollars. But then we've agreed to give Statoil more owners, because then Statoil gets more competence, more capital and greater opportunities, it becomes a strong, profitable international company. And then we've said yes to take a small part of the state's direct holdings and use them to make the companies stronger, get better coordination of the business in the fields so as to create greater values and also increase the community's income. I am very concerned about the Community's revenue from the oil and gas business. Oil and gas resources are the common property of the people, and they shall be managed for the benefit of all the people. That is what the Workers' Party has meant all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e184	It would have been tempting to say in terms of the so-called 20 percent – but I don't know if the President will allow it – that this is not the problem of the Christian People's Party in connection with what the Government has presented, but the huge imbalance in the distribution between Statoil and Hydro. The Prime Minister knows that, and he should take that inward. But we're not going to negotiate this in the hall. I'm going to ask another main question, and it goes on the Foreign Minister's statements yesterday, not in the Chamber when he gave his foreign policy statement, but what he said out in the hiking hall afterwards. It was so interesting that it is a little surprising that he did not say that in his thoughtful presentation, but instead it told journalists in the hiking hall afterwards, that in his opinion it might be relevant to start a debate on Norwegian EU membership already in 2002 or 2003. This is, to put it mildly, poorly consistent with what both the Prime Minister and others have said in the past about when the actual membership debate will come, perhaps towards the end of the next enlargement period in view of the 2005 elections. What is the Government's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e191	The Government's position is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed in a wide range of talks and speeches, and which I myself have expressed in talks and speeches, and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented in the foreign policy statement last night. But what I think is pretty important is to distinguish between two different questions. One is the issue of the debate on Norway’s relationship with the EU. It's important anyway, it's also important in the election campaign. It is about Schengen, it is about the establishment of a defence policy cooperation where Norway is going to participate with 3,000 soldiers, it is about the veterinary agreement, about food security and many other issues that are important in Norway’s relationship with the EU. The second is whether we should address the question of applying for membership now. It means neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor I, but at the same time we say that it is necessary to have freedom of action because the world can change. That has happened before, and we also have to be prepared for that can happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e198	I know what both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have said in talks and speeches, to which the Prime Minister has now referred. But I made it clear that there was not the foreign minister's speech here in the Chamber yesterday that I was looking forward to, but his comments afterwards – it was those who were watching – namely that the question of membership can already be raised in a year, that is, in 2002, or in 2003. My question was, Is that the government's policy? There will be something different than what both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have said before, because I have understood so much in the past that something new has to happen before the membership issue for Norway may become relevant again, either because we have some experience with other countries’ membership of the EU – and we do not want that in 2002 and 2003, we will have it all the way to the end of the next enlargement period at the earliest – or there has to be a significant envelope in Norwegian opinion. Of course, there can never be a prediction when it can happen, but as it looks today, there is little evidence of a quick envelope in Norwegian opinion regarding the position of EU membership. My question is therefore: Is this already the case in 2002–2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e203	Here you try to construct disagreement by interpreting statements. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear yesterday and has done so on many other occasions that if membership is to be considered at all – not the EU issue and Norway's relationship with the EU, but Norwegian membership – at least two preconditions must be met. One is that the enlargement process is under way in the EU – he explained that yesterday. The second is that there has to be significant changes in Norwegian opinion. The foreign minister has said that, it is stated in the Workers' Party's National Assembly Decision, and I have said that. And I think, like what the Foreign Minister has said, that it's not likely that it's going to happen in the next big period. It is very unlikely that it will happen until the next year or the following year. But to say that we are sure of what will be the situation in Europe for the next two–three–four years, I think it is unwise, and that is what the Foreign Minister and I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e209	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e212	The government has a problem when everyone other than the Labour Party's leadership hears that the government is talking to two tongues, while the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs insist that they talk to one. I understand the Prime Minister's first answer so that we should deal with what the Foreign Minister says when he has a script, but when he speaks without a script, it is not good to know what we should believe. We should clarify what the Labour Party's leadership really means when the Minister of Foreign Affairs talks about 2002 and 2003, without a script, while the National Assembly of the Workers' Party talks about 2005 and 2006. How are you going to deal with what the Government says on the EU issue? And is it that it is only possible to relate to the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he has a script?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e219	No, of course not! But the Foreign Minister and I have stressed on several occasions that in order for us to re-examine the question of assessing a membership application at all, at least two prerequisites must be met. One is that there are significant changes in the Norwegian people’s attitude to the issue of membership – and that is where we can all wonder if and when that will happen in the case. However, there is nothing in today’s polls that suggests that there has now been a significant increase in the number of EU members than one, two or three years ago. That is one thing, and that is the crucial question, namely that the Norwegian people should decide this in a referendum. And that means that in any case there is no Norwegian government that will decide to raise the question of membership before you see that there is a permanent change in Norwegian opinion. The Foreign Minister has said that, and I repeat that. The second foreign minister has said, which is the second premise, that EU countries must have started the enlargement process. You could have a little bit of different assessments of when that's going to happen. It may be in 2002–2003, or it may be later. But there is one of two conditions for the question to be re-examined at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e226	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e229	I could imagine asking if the Prime Minister will rule out that the government of Stoltenberg, if it continues after the elections, will make some proposal to the Stortinget for a referendum on sending a membership request for the next major period. So, can you rule out that that will happen? Or is it actually a real opportunity? My second follow-up question is on the election campaign. The Minister of Foreign Affairs – or perhaps the party leader – raised the issue of Norway’s relationship with the EU, including membership, among the most important issues, of course, which belong as a major part of the issues that should be the subject of discussion in the election campaign for the autumn. Is it also the Prime Minister's view that the big election campaign should take great account of the desire, the necessity, of a new EU membership request?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e236	In the case of Norwegian membership and an application for Norwegian membership of the EU, there are two simple, but in my opinion also two ‘gale’ positions. One is to say that we should in any case apply for membership in the next period. I strongly advise against that, and that is not the government's policy. The second position is that we should in any case not search in the next period. I think that is also an unwise position, because we do not know how fast and dramatic the situation in Europe can change. In 1989 no one dreamed that the Berlin Wall would fall, nor did anyone dream that Sweden and Finland would seek membership. However, a few months later, and during the same growing-up period, an application was sent. Both of these positions – saying that we exclude searching and saying that we should definitely search – are crazy. What we're saying is we're going to have the freedom to act. If we are to exercise it, it depends, first of all, on the fact that the Norwegian people have changed their mind about the EU – and the polls do not indicate that it has happened – and the Norwegian people have to decide through a referendum, and then enlargement has to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e243	Anne Enger Lahnstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e246	I think the Prime Minister is now running out of water, because we all heard what the Foreign Minister said yesterday. We have also heard the reactions of the minority at the National Labour Party meeting, which is opposed to Norwegian membership of the EU. But now the Prime Minister has explained two ‘male’ positions. He has expressed a manifestly wrong position, namely that the people should decide this in a referendum. We do not have a binding referendum in Norway, but we have an advisory referendum, and after today's rules, the decision must therefore be taken in the Grand Duchy under the provisions of the Basic Law on qualified majority voting. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Will the Workers' Party go in the next period to change the Constitution to get a binding referendum, according to certain rules? Or will the Prime Minister – as previously done by the Labour Party – maintain today's situation and thus have an advisory rather than binding referendum on the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e255	I believe that it is the Norwegian people who are going to decide the question of membership through a referendum. I have meant that all along and, of course, I meant it in 1994 as well. That some no-parties have been in doubt about that, is a completely different matter. However, all the parties that recommended membership in 1994 were quite clear that it was only possible to notify Norway if it was a majority of the Norwegian people who recommended it, and all the yes parties were clear that if a majority voted no, it was not about notifying Norway into the EU. That's still my point of view. Whether this should be formalised or not through a binding referendum, we have not assessed. I know that various constitutional changes have been proposed. We have not taken a decision on all of the individual proposals. We'll do that later. But it does not change the political reality, namely that the Labour Party will never be in favour of membership without the Norwegian people voting in a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e262	Einar Steensnæs – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e265	It must be clear that in the Labour Party here you are betting on two horses. They communicate a double message. They say that it is unlikely that a new membership request will be submitted in the next period, but the possibility remains open. Thus, the Prime Minister's reply to the Storting today reflects the dilemma facing the Workers' Party, namely a divided party to which a minority is skeptical, not to say strongly against the submission of a membership request. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is this a responsible attitude of the Labour Party, the country's largest party, that a person communicates twice to the Norwegian people in a matter of such importance to the people and to Norwegian interests? Would it not have been more correct and more consistent with the importance of membership of the European Union, that the Workers' Party had given a clear indication of the party's position before a major election? And in line with what Anne Enger Lahnstein asked instead, will it not be that the composition of the Storting will also have an impact on how a membership application will be dealt with in Stortinget, and does not the Norwegian people therefore have a right to know the position of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e273	The Workers' Party does not communicate twice. What the Labour Party is doing is making it very clear what our position is in relation to how we are going to deal with the issue of Norway's relationship with Europe and, if necessary, the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU. In our opinion, it is no matter what the Norwegian people decide, through a referendum, whether Norway will ever become a member of the EU. It follows that it is pointless to address the issue of Norwegian membership in the EU without a permanent change in Norwegian opinion regarding the view of membership, and there is therefore nothing to suggest that there is a imminent change in the position of Norwegian voters on the issue of membership. Then we have said that it is not necessary to evaluate a membership request until we have seen that the enlargement process has started. But we have also said that being sloppy today about what Europe looks like in three to four years' time is just as wrong as it was to be sloppy in 1989, when we were all wrong and not expecting the fall of the Berlin Wall, and when the EU case actually came on the agenda because our Nordic neighbours were looking for membership. The people have to decide this through referendum, and it should calm Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e285	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the defence policy debate that is now under way after the Government has put forward proposals for a substantial reduction in Norwegian defence. In a longer article in the Evening Post on Tuesday, March 20, political editor Harald Stanghelle writes about this.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘While there is a plethora of retired officers in the debate, the active officer’s corps is placed on the mouthpiece of the Defence Manager. The conclusion has been reached, and now loyalty is required that does not allow for external appearance in the public space.» Does the Prime Minister agree with the Advancement Party that in such a debate, the people and also politicians need to know the views of the professional experts, i.e. the officers, and does he agree that there should be no oral curve on the participation of the officers' corps, so that the people and we can gain insight into the opinions of those who have education and knowledge in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e297	The government has put forward a proposal to strengthen the Norwegian defence system, which means that we are getting better, more effective and stronger defences that better safeguard the country's security than the defence we have today. We have committed to spending at least the same amount of money on the defense of the next few years that we have done throughout the 1990s, but we have committed to spending the money better than today. Today, too much of the defence money is spent on staff functions, administration, the operation of too large an organisation, and too little of the defence money is spent on material, exercise, mobility and impact. That is why it involves the conversion of the defence we have now proposed, a strengthening of the defence. This is entirely in line with the professional military advice from the Chief of Defense and the Defence Study. There has been a long professional-military process in which various officers, different bodies and different parts of the military have spoken out. So what we are now proposing is in line with the professional-military councils, because it means strengthening the Norwegian defence system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e304	The Prime Minister did not answer my question. I asked him if he agreed that we should not have any oral baskets on them he is now taking income for the Government's position. How can we verify whether the Prime Minister is telling the truth when he claims that this is a strengthening of the defence, that it will be a better defense and that it is in line with the trade-military advice, if at the same time he confirms the defence chief's alleged mouthpiece against the same trade-military. So the size has a control function, and it's controlling the truth of what the government claims. There are quite a few who have repeatedly said that there is rhetoric without truth coming from the Government when one speaks the way the Prime Minister now does. Will the Prime Minister now tell the Stortinget and the population that he wishes to welcome the participation of the professional militants in the public debate, or will he hide it so that he is sure not to be revealed in leading the population and the Storing behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e311	Very familiar is there no oral basket on officers' participation in the defence policy debate. A large pile of newspaper clips that I get every day shows that professional soldiers are participating in this debate. The Chief of Defense has made it clear that he believes that in relation to the work of prominent officials, who are senior officers, in the follow-up to the Defence Study, which has been a comprehensive professional military process, we need to keep track of the fact that there is no doubt about that process and the recommendations made by the Chief of Defence through the Defence Study. I can understand that, but it's something other than putting on a mouth basket, as Minister of Defence Godal has also explained in the Question Time here in the Stortinget earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e318	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e321	It's to the extent that a paradox when it's Carl I. Hagen raises the question of whether it's someone other than the boss who's going to be allowed to define the message. But at least it's okay that it's done when it comes to the defense. Can I understand the Prime Minister so that he now simply wants the professional militaries to be actively welcome to participate in the debate? I have had exactly the same impression as Carl I. Hagen, that it is not desirable that they appear in the open debate. It's not all to prevent, it's completely out of the question, but I think a lot of people in the defense have felt that there's been a restriction on them. Does this mean, then, that the Prime Minister now tells the professional officers that it is clear in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e328	I am not saying anything other than that the head of defense has already said, and I believe that he has handled this in a good way. But that's what the government is now proposing, for example. is the result of a comprehensive professional-military recommendation by the head of defence drawing on his resources. The same professional military should then be careful to debate the recommendations made to the political bodies by the head of defence through the Defence Study. In addition, Norwegian officers participate in public debate on general defence issues. That's good, and they're all doing it. That's the way it has been, and it's still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e335	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e338	It is reassuring for the Prime Minister to state that we have all the professional views on the table. Of course, I also take that for granted when the fractions here in the house have to work with the setting. In my opinion, the extensive conversion the Prime Minister is talking about, which is characterized by an unusual lack of underlying data. It's absolutely necessary to get a serious defense to have a number material that tells you what the defense looks like from the bottom up, not from the top down. All of us who have worked with organisations know that the money is getting older on the road, like in staff and support functions, as the Prime Minister says, if you don't get the figures. I noticed that the Prime Minister said that we get a better defense, that we get more material and more practice. My question to the Prime Minister is then: does his defence concept include having a high production of competent guardians, so that in a certain number of years we have many who know what a defense is? My reasoning is that we can always buy equipment, but we cannot buy competence. It can only be built up over time, but it can be destroyed incredibly quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e346	Yes, we're going to have a strong protective defense. I believe that we actually get better protection by getting more equipment, better training and better training than they do today. So it has unfortunately been for a long time that only over half of Norwegian male coal has earned protection. That will also be the case with the new defence structure that we are now adding up to. The main point is that Norway has now been waiting for far too many years to reform its Norwegian defence system. In Norway, we have more generals and admirals than in Sweden, although Sweden has a larger defence. We're superintendent, and that's what the government's about to do. We have too many military spells that are too expensive to run, so we get too little money for what the defense really should do. That's what we're dealing with right now. It is important for the defence, but it is not least important for those in need of protection who are given a better and more meaningful service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e355	Per Ove Width - the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e358	I want to follow up the previous speaker on this matter. I find it strange that the defense management will not listen to the professional competence that lies in the officer's corps, and there is today great dissatisfaction in the officer's corps because they are not allowed to speak. I have previously asked questions in this Chamber to the Minister of Defence at the time, Mr Färvoll, about this, and I was then given a clear signal that officers are allowed to participate in the debate, and I believe that the current Minister of Defence, Mr Godal, has also received the same question and given the same answer. What the officers do is to point out obvious defects and defects in the defense, and it's those who have the best skills to get the best defense possible. What happens is that they're called in on the carpet of the defense chief in retrospect and have to answer for what they've done, and they're pretty much going to have a rough mouth. There's also a lot of disagreement in the officer's corps about St.prp. No 45, on which the Prime Minister was in; it is not as good as many would like it to be. I would also like to ask whether it is right that an admiral be deprived of promotion because of statements in the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e365	So Norway has spent far too many years trying to make a modern, powerful defense. Different governments are responsible for not doing that job. Now we have a government doing that job, offering a comprehensive proposal for a significantly stronger and better defense, because we're going to spend money not on administration, not on large staffs, not on drifting old structures, but on having a better defense. Then, of course, there will be a debate on this in Stortinget, and I expect the committee to invite professionals, experts and also professional soldiers to the hearings and to evaluate the various proposals that the Government has put forward. It is not the case that officers are refused to participate in the general or general defence debate, and many attend each day. But in the case of the Defence Study itself, which is the result of a comprehensive professional-military work, in which officers have recorded to the Chief of Defense and the Chief of Defence has given a comprehensive advice, it is somewhat different if one starts to doubt the recommendations that come in the Defence Study.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e372	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e375	If the Prime Minister is now waiting for a question about the EU, he is mistaken, because after yesterday the Foreign Minister announced that it could be relevant to a membership request as early as one year after the autumn elections, and that this topic therefore becomes an important theme in the election campaign, I consider this issue to be clarified, and – with all possible respect for the Vice-President of the Party – in this case I will place the decisive emphasis on what the party leader says, with and without script. I have a completely different question, because the government was following the precautionary principle when it introduced the import ban in winter for the whole EU area. Yesterday a suspicious disease case was discovered in the Netherlands. Antibodies have been recorded in livestock showing that the herd has been infected with foot-and-mouth disease. On the same day, Norway announces that it may be appropriate to remove the import ban as early as the next week. Is it the pressure from the EU that the Government is now evading the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e382	First of all, I realize that the centre party is desperately looking for a cause on which they can mobilize in the election campaign. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and I say exactly the same thing as the National Assembly of the Labour Party agreed, namely that we need freedom of action. It is unlikely that an application will be relevant, but it will be assessed in the light of the enlargements and enlargements of the EU, and what happens in relation to Norwegian opinion; there must be a permanent change in Norwegian opinion. And if that, as Johan J. Jakobsen apparently believes, in a year's time is a massive, lasting yes-majority in the Norwegian people, then it's clear that then the EU case will also be slightly different, but my impression is that Johan J. Jakobsen believes something else. The Labour Party believes, unlike the Centre Party, that we must respect referendums. I guess that's what the Central Party's problem is, that they have a little insecure relationship with whether the people are going to decide by referendum the question of membership, not by a big shot. So as far as the veterinary agreement is concerned, we have said that we are imposing an import ban on certain food products. The European Union should tolerate this, and we have said that to the European Union. Then the EU has been critical of our decision. We should take that. We stand firm on our decision. No one in the EU has disputed its legality, nor has countermeasures been relevant. We stand on our decision, we have made it clear to the European Union, and we believe that the European Union should also tolerate the introduction of that ban. Whether or not to continue to apply after the end of the first fourteen-day period, we shall decide as we approach the end of that period, based on professional assessments of animal health in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e389	I understand that the Prime Minister needs a certain round of clarification on when it is appropriate to send an EU application. Well, it's got to be. With regard to the issue of the import ban, my supplementary question will be briefly as follows: Since it is clear that yesterday there was a suspicious case of infection as close to Norway as in the Netherlands, does the Prime Minister think it is right that the Government on the same day announces that it might be appropriate to lift the import ban? When a new suspicious case has emerged, shouldn't it be that one of the closest parties decided that it would not be appropriate to lift the import ban in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e396	For us, this is a very serious question, a question that requires a heavy and proper professional assessment, and it is not a question, as the Central Party has stated, which you want as an electoral campaign theme again to find a case of party tactics. That is why we always put great emphasis on professional advice, and therefore it was that before we took the decision on the ban, we carried out the necessary consultations and investigations in relation to international agreements signed by Norway, which the central government also complied with and practised and actually proposed in relation to the veterinary agreement. It is clear that if the suspicion of the spread of bovine animals proves to be correct, and cases are detected in the Netherlands, there will be a significant part of the basis on which we take into account when assessing in a few days' time whether we will go in order for the import ban to continue. But that's exactly all of this information we're going to have, and then we're going to decide if we're going to extend the ban for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e401	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e404	When animal and public health are so seriously threatened that, on the basis of professional advice, the Government has chosen to close the boundaries of the type of biological material that can bring about the infection, I also without further delay – and I would like to have a confirmation from the Prime Minister on it – that any lifting of the same import ban is based on strictly professional advice and views on public health and animal health being no longer threatened, and that there are no other, political, reasons for having to do so. The second is – and I would like to hear the Prime Minister’s view on it – about the recent development of the spread of diseases, and when a virus appears in France, it is so threatening towards a country as far north as ours, with many borders between us, that we must close our borders. Has the Prime Minister come up with any new ideas – I know that he, like me, is generally a member of free trade – that trade in such biological material that can be contagious has other limitations than free trade after this that has now occurred?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e414	The Working Party and the Government have always been based on professional advice and assessments in the management of foot-and-mouth disease. This has not been done by the centre parties, because you wanted a ban before there was any professional advice. At that time, we had a significantly worse case compared to the EU, with the EEA Agreement and with possible countermeasures against Norway. Just because we have progressed well, had a professional assessment, handled the contract law in relation to the EEA and the veterinary agreement, we stood so strongly in the veterinary committee yesterday – because we could refer to professional advice from the Norwegian veterinary authorities, and because we could show that we had followed up the contract, the EEA Agreement and the veterinary agreement, on talks with the parties before we introduced such a restriction. It didn't add up to the center. They only offered to introduce the import ban before we had professional advice. Therefore, of course, we should also pay attention to professional advice when we consider the question of any extension, and that is the professional advice we are now working on for the next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e419	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e422	I would like to challenge the Prime Minister: SV has revealed that the oil fund invests our money, among other things. in landmine production. From 1999 to 2000, we have even tripled our investment in this company in Singapore. Norway was one of several countries that initiated an international ban on landmine production, and we also succeeded in obtaining an international agreement in 1997. Thank you! Then we experience that the Norwegian oil fund, which has no other policy than returns, invests money in this type of business. There's no other word in Norwegian than a shame that we're actually doing it. We are undermining Norwegian overall credibility and positions in this important international effort to enforce the ban on landmine production. My challenge to the Prime Minister is therefore very concrete and very understandable: will the Prime Minister ensure that the oil fund immediately withdraws the investment from this business in Singapore, so that at least we are not still in landmine production?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e429	I've seen what SV has done. I have also seen that SV believes that we are going out of environmentally harmful businesses, that we are going out of arms production, that we are going out of businesses that invest in Burma, that we are going out of businesses that do not like other things like SV. There will be a quite extensive conversion of the guidelines for the petroleum fund. They've been evaluated several times in Stortinget. What we've done is put aside some funds to invest in environmentally friendly activities. Then we will gain experience of those investments before we possibly go further and impose further restrictions on investments with the petroleum fund. We also have to think about whether this is going to be the way to say no to, for example. investment in the production of weapons by the petroleum fund, but agree to investment in the production of weapons by the Folketry Fund or Norwegian pension insurance companies, which invest, for example, in the Nammo, Kongsberg group or other enterprises engaged in weapons production or other activities which we do not like.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e434	It is quite incredible to hear a Social Democratic Prime Minister stand and defend investments in landmine production. He hasn't done his homework. We haven't talked about weapons production in general, we've been talking about landmine production. We've been talking about Burma, where all Norwegian prime ministers from Jagland have warned private Norwegian investors against going in, so the oil fund can enter Burma without moral scruples. We have been talking about genetically modified products, which the Prime Minister himself has warned against, and we have been talking about tobacco, which the Prime Minister himself has warned against. I have to say that it is quite shocking to experience that a social-democratic prime minister is not able to get up to saying yes, of course we are not going to be in landmine production, of course I am going to take the initiative immediately so that at least this business we are going to get out of. So there's going to be a question of the size of the oil fund now, man wants to make general guidelines for the oil fund. I have not mentioned that in my question. My question is whether the Prime Minister will now see to it that this company in Singapore is going to leave immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e441	I've been dealing with what Øystein Djupedal said when they presented the review of the petroleum fund, and then you went against a lot of businesses: you were against companies that invest in genetically modified activities, there are quite a few companies, you were against all companies that invest in tobacco, there are a lot of companies, you were against all companies that have their business in Burma, there are a lot of companies, and you were against companies that invest in environmentally hostile activities. And then you have to define what it is, for example. State power has invested considerable resources in nuclear power, and I expect SV to define it as environmentally harmful. My point is that if you're going out of all the companies involved in genetically modified activities, all those involved in tobacco activities, everyone operating in Burma, everything that's environmentally damaging and much of the weapon production -- or is it such that some weapons are in order and other weapons aren't? – then it involves a dramatic conversion of the petroleum fund, which has a scheme to ensure the best possible return at the lowest possible risk. The fact that one example is now chosen does not change that SV asked for a completely different policy in relation to the petroleum fund when it was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e451	There will be follow-up questions – Anne Enger Lahnstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e454	I know that it is difficult to set guidelines for the oil fund, but the central government actually provided guidelines that meant saying no to the tobacco industry. It's completely possible. And we got a small provision – too small, but still – for the environment. I would like to repeat SV’s questions, which are also the central party’s questions, specifically related to landmines, because it was Norway — from Marit Arnstad in the first row — that the ban on landmines was fought to establish an international ban in 1997. It was almost shocking to see that the Norwegian oil fund is involved in the production of these landmines. And it must be possible to answer a simple question – whether it is not possible to withdraw Norwegian investment from such a project and rather take one thing at a time. I believe the government was defensive of tobacco. But let me now repeat SV's question: What about landmines?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e461	The central government in the government offices for two and a half years managed the oil fund and invested in exactly the same companies. The central government proposed a restriction that was not about landmines, which was not about weapons production. You can invest in rockets, you can invest in bombing aircraft production, and you can invest in land mines according to the central government's guidelines. That central government was concerned about not investing in tobacco, but we could well invest in weapons and landmines. Then I think you should be a little more humble in your questioning a few months after you left the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e466	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e469	Now SV needs only one clear answer to one question. Norway is working internationally to prohibit the use of landmines. It's the political title of the government's work. But our money speaks the opposite way. Our revenues are based, among other things, on: on the profit of landmine production, and we all know what kind of destruction they lead to. It must then be possible for the Prime Minister to give a clear answer as to whether this is the case in the future, or whether it is completely unacceptable for a social democratic Norway to make money on landmine production. It can be answered very simply – yes or no. So now big international groups have a completely different moral standard than the Norwegian Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e477	I have to deal with what SV has proposed and what SV has entered into, among other things. when they presented this report on the petroleum fund: it was out of all activities involving genetically modified products. They were against everyone in Burma. They were against environmentally harmful activities, which I expect, for example. investments in nuclear power carried out by Statkraft and other enterprises. That was a lot of things. Now, when you choose to take one thing out of the long sequence, I think we have to deal with what they've proposed, something far more than what's now being asked about. Then what I'm saying is that we've started in one area, we've started with environmental investment, and that's where we're starting to gain experience. Depending on how good the experience gets, we'll see if we can go further in relation to other types of limitations or designs of special funds within the oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e482	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e485	I have a question for Councillor Terje Moe Gustavsen. Collective provision in Norway is too poor and too expensive. Norway is one of the countries in Europe which provides the lowest contribution to public transport. And the radio today recorded this with the increase in traffic by 30 pst. and a corresponding reduction of the public transport subsidy of 40 pst. from 1986 to 1997. The Council of State was not satisfied with this development. In the national transport plan, public transport was referred to very sparingly, as the Committee actually corrected in its position. Collective transport is important for the environment, accessibility and road safety, and in the budget conciliation in the autumn we received an extra effort on public transport. So state councils are admitting on the radio today for little effort both on the track and on the bus. What measures does the Council of State think should be put in place to make the collective offer attractive and allow more people to choose – and actually choose – the bus and the runway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e498	It was shown that we have had a growth in road traffic of 30 pst. and a reduction in the level of public transport subsidies. With regard to road development in the last 15 years, to which this refers, it has been mildly said that there has been broad support in the Stortingen, and here we have invested not least to support housing and business far beyond the whole country. I am reasonably sure that no one believes has been wrong, even so during the treatment of the national transport plan that there were strong ambitions to further invest in roads. As far as the collective side is concerned, it is my opinion that for many years we have had one too weak investment, and in many ways it has not matched the development we have had on the roadside. But we have grasped this. Through the National Transport Plan, we presented a proposal for the development of rail – the largest extension in many, many years – over the next decade. We propose to use more tools in relation to T-road development, for collective action. It is probably the largest collective effort, and at least as important as operating aid, precisely because it is expanding both in terms of where we have public transport, and not least in terms of capacity, which is at present as important as the price question. Then we have to align better. We want to improve the alignment of support. We will assess the so-called head restraint, i.e. the more passengers, the more support. We will try out new forms of organization, not least in the major urban areas, so that we can see the whole transport image in a larger context. With regard to future efforts in public transport, it is the government's clear goal to bet strongly in the future, and we hope to get the Stortinge with us on this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e509	I thank you for your answer. I count as a matter of course that the government is following up what was said in the committee position in connection with the national transport plan on just collective action. Purchases of services from the NSB are part of the important collective effort and in the 2001 budget it was decided that train production should continue in 2001 as in 2000 and that the rate increase should not exceed the average price increase. If it turned out that it did not work, the government would come back to Stortinget with this. Nevertheless, we know that the offer of trains has changed significantly – there are still further reductions – in a negative direction. Unfortunately, people's opinion is also increasingly negative in relation to the NSB. The agreement to purchase services from the NSB should have been completed before the new year. Will the Council of State ensure that the Storting will soon be able to assess transport offers and resources for the purchase of services from the NSB, which is so important for the part of the collective offer actually held by the Ministry of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e520	Of course, we will follow up the committee position on coming back with a broad explanation/review of the collective effort, at the latest in the context of the 2002 state budget. With regard to the purchase of services from the NSB, we have explained to the Storting that we are and have been in a difficult situation, because the offer made by the NSB has not been in line with the costs that this company has incurred. These are difficult negotiations because here we have to deal with sins of omission that have lasted several years and were also administered by the previous government. We are in the final phase of the negotiations. I hope to get back to Stortinget relatively quickly, but I see it as more important to get to Stortinget when we have a broad overview, when we can explain a good review of this – only then will we come. But I hope it can happen with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e527	There will be follow-up questions – May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e530	In the left we are busy getting a stronger commitment to collective development, and it has also been stated by the minister that he wants to follow with us. Then there's a circular that's gone out to the county councils and the road bosses, and which now makes the Bergen city track, which is the big bet to increase the collective section in Bergen, fallow. It is a circular that says that in such projects, which are the county councils and municipalities' responsibility, the county and the municipality should set up by 50 pst. self-esteem. This has not been done in Oslo, where the state set up with 75 pst. to the T-banning, but at the city track in Bergen – the big bet there – it must be 50 pst. self-esteem. This means that this project can be jeopardized. Will the Minister for Transport take the initiative to ensure that this project can have an increased State share? The Bergen programme is now under consideration, and the state politicians and city politicians have given priority to the city track. But it seems that the head of the road wants to give priority to a road project first.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e539	The type of collective bets, such as the Bergen City Railway, the Oslo T-Bahn, tram in Oslo, tram in Trondheim, is initially a municipal responsibility – municipal responsibility as far as Oslo is concerned. And the state has contributed and will contribute to support for infrastructure development. I refer to Oslo and the expansion of the T-banning, where 80 pst. is supported by the State. In the case of the city railway in Bergen, I am not familiar with the circular to which the representative Vihovde refers, but I am aware that when the road manager in Hordaland has developed his programme of action, yes, he has referred to the urban railway in Bergen and has seen the possibilities of developing routes for public transport to the city railway at a later stage. For my own part, I have to say that I am positive about the development of the urban railway in Bergen, and also that the state can contribute to the establishment of the infrastructure. I think it's right to get that kind of a little bit heavier collective offer in our biggest cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e550	Inge Myrvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e553	Unlike the Council of State, I'm familiar with it. Some of the dilemma we're facing here is to build highways in Bergen or Oslo, etc., it can be financed through government appropriations and the use of tolls. However, collective investment in T-Bahn, urban railway, etc. is required on the budgets of the municipality or county. Can the Council of State imagine going in and looking into whether it is not possible to finance it in such a way that, partly through government appropriations, some through toll revenue can receive the same type of financing on collective investment as on road investment? Then it will also be easier to motivate municipalities and municipalities to invest in collective investment, because they are not allowed to go on their own budgets. They can use tolls combined with government appropriations. As it is today, it will be a heavy burden to invest collectively, while not going into your own budgets if you invest in the way. It motivates road investment rather than collective investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e561	In fact, the model described by the representative Myrvoll is the model that is the basis for today's T-banning in Oslo, which is the use of toll revenue from the bombing, state resources and municipal resources. I am therefore in no way unwilling to look at that kind of spice layer – so of course in Bergen. But it is important that we stress the division of responsibilities that we have, by pointing to the responsibilities of the municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo, in order that the county council and the municipality of Oslo should also do their part of the job. It is also necessary that they give priority to public transport in order to strengthen the offer. But the state should also set up, and we should also continue to use toll revenue in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e568	Thore Aksel Nistad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e571	The Council of State was a little earlier about him sitting and negotiating with the NSB about the purchase of services – or what I briefly call subsidies. We in the Transport Committee have been waiting a very long time for those negotiations, and every year we spend almost $1 billion on buying these services, without even knowing what this money is going to, what the distances are, and what kind of figure material is behind, whether it's for travellers or the costs of these distances. Then my question is, why is this excluded from the public? I know VG has put the search light on this and tried to figure out the numbers for the different distances. I've tried through the committee to get the figures for the different distances and costs and revenues. I have not received an answer either. But anyway, we're going to have to spend almost $1 billion on something that we don't have any idea at all. How long has the Council of State planned for this to last?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e580	Usually, the Progress Party is very concerned that the NSB should be treated as an ordinary company. For example, an ordinary company must: have the opportunity to lay down their market strategies and make their calculations without constantly having to deliver them to any competitor. That's why you've had a discussion about how much information you need to get out of here. Then I feel that the Progress Party in this context, referring to the purchase agreement, says that this should not apply to limited transparency. I see that there are clear reasons for giving insight into the purchase agreement, and we have been prepared to do so. Over the time we've been in government, we've been looking at this, for example. in communication with the Committee. And I want to provide the information that it is sound and proper to provide for the purpose of the purchase agreement, but at the same time take into account what is necessary in relation to the business operations of the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e587	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e592	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative Jon Olav Alstad to the Minister for Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 13, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e612	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Various signals have been received from county tax offices as to whether the ‘renting’ of boatyards is covered by the VAT extension from 1 July 2001. Many of these marinas are based on membership and hard work, and are not meant to make money. Can the State Council clarify whether the marinas are covered by the VAT extension?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e621	The reform of value added tax, which enters into force on 1 July 2001, implies the introduction of a general VAT obligation on the turnover of services. A general duty obligation implies that all services, like goods, are subject to the VAT obligation, unless they are expressly exempted. After the reform, the turnover of immovable property rights will, as a general rule, continue to be exempt from the duty. However, this does not apply to the rental of parking spaces and boat moorings for vessels less than 15 metres. This means that activities with the rental of boating sites will be required to calculate the value added tax payable on the consideration, while deducting from the input tax on acquisitions for use in the establishment. However, it is a prerequisite that the general requirements of the VAT law in other respects are met. These include: a requirement for rental to take place in the course of a business. Therefore, renting boat moorings for consideration would normally be subject to a charge. In the preparatory work, it has been shown that the rental of moorings and moorings for pleasure boats in guest ports and marinas will be subject to a charge. Rental of boat moorings often takes place through associations. In these cases, the remuneration is remunerated for membership quotas and/or hard work. The VAT law exempts the turnover of NPISHs and associations when the remuneration is received in the form of a membership quota and the quota covers goods and services which are part of the non-profit activities of the organisation or association. If the association is to be non-profit, it must take care of general social interests across special interests. The association must also be available to a wide range of people. On this basis, I assume that boat associations which are only intended to provide boating space for the members are not considered ideal and are therefore not covered by this derogation. As mentioned above, the exercise of an industrial activity is a general duty condition. For some boat associations there may be some doubts. I am referring to the fact that the Ministry of Finance has stated on a specific matter. There was a boat association that was intended to provide the members of the port and to provide winter storage of the members' boats. The membership quota covered the expenses of the association for the repair of buildings and other equipment, remuneration of an employee, rent, administration, etc. Some maintenance work, administration, etc. was also carried out on the basis of due diligence by the members. Members paid specifically for, inter alia: ice-free port, rental of lockers, towing of boats to and from escape, insurance of vessels in storage and share of quotas with other associations and associations. This is reflected in Opinions on VAT No. 4/75. The Ministry had doubts as to whether an association with the purpose and activity referred to could be regarded as a trader and decided on the basis of the VAT Act § 10 sixth paragraph that this boat association should not be regarded as a trader. I consider it appropriate to point out that this decision requires a strict assessment and that rental activities will normally take place in industry. This assessment becomes discretionary and must be determined in the specific case. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the VAT reform, the Ministry will be subject to specific exemptions from the tax obligation granted by the charging authorities under the VAT law. This review may lead to amendments to the exemptions granted, even in relation to the abovementioned decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e641	It was really a little hard to understand what the Minister of Finance is trying to suggest. Here is a boat – and, as I understand it. It is still assessed whether exemptions should be granted to marinas based on good practices and owned by members. Almost 80 pst. by the marinas are largely operated. The costs of installing a marina are covered by an entrance ticket and the operation is covered by either a rental or a membership quota. If you don't exempt such marinas, you're actually adding a rate of VAT to your diet. You also have to consider this to be a non-profit organization. I ask the Minister of Finance to clarify his answer a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e648	The starting point here is that these questions are not finally settled. There is a work going on in the Ministry of Finance around it. As is well known, many factors need to be clarified in the follow-up to the VAT reform. And then it's like renting out a boat yard that is considered to be an industrial activity will be subject to a charge, but to the extent that it is considered a non-profit organisation, it is not subject to a charge. It has to be defined in many cases on a case-by-case basis. That's why I can't give a totally definite answer to what's going on for associations in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e653	If this is not prepared, it will indicate that it is the county tax managers in each state who will then clarify whether this is a business or not, whether it is a non-profit organisation or not. When you say that you still have to work on this, and there are many things that have not been clarified in connection with the VAT reform, I have to say that the Right has been right, that the VAT reform was carried out too quickly, and that you have not done the investigative work you should have done in advance. I am amazed that the Minister of Finance is not now able to give a clearer answer to this. I also assume that I have to report back to the small boat associations that they may have to consider being subject to VAT from 1 July, because there are so many uncertainties going out and going. We know that the County Tax Director in Østfold has said yes, VAT should be covered here, while the County Tax Director in Finnmark has said no. Small boat ports are operated in accordance with the same principles and in the same way, whether in Eastfold or in Finnland.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e660	I don't know the statements of the different county treasure managers. What is clear, however, is that VAT obligations are linked to the concept of industry. This is why in many cases a balance has to be made for each activity. Although it would be desirable to be able to provide simple and clear answers, there have always been difficult balances in relation to VAT legislation. It also shows the individual case referred to here, as set out in Opinions on VAT No. 4/75, where it was concluded that it was not an industrial activity. But here I have to show that in very many cases a decision will have to be made based on an assessment of the specific case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e668	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘As of 1 July 2001, all pole sales in Sweden are likely to be open on Saturday. This means, for example: the monopoly of wine sales in Kongsving is even more competitive with the Systembolaget in Charlottenberg. The same will apply to all Norwegian wine monopoly sales along the border with Sweden. How will the Council of States respond to this so that we do not receive a further increase in the so-called ‘swiss trade’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e677	The experimental system of Saturday-open system companies in Sweden has been in operation for about one year. During the spring, it may be decided whether to make the scheme permanent. Border trade in alcohol may increase if several system companies along the border become open on Saturdays. However, figures from the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research suggest that less than 2 pst. of the total consumption of wine and spirits in Norway stems from border trade with Sweden. In addition, Norwegian quota provisions contribute to limiting border trade in alcohol. Border trade studies show that food, and in particular meat, are the main reason why Norwegians travel to Sweden to act. The decision to reduce food VAT from 1 July 2001 will lower the price of Norwegian food and is expected to reduce border trade with Sweden in general. The government is aware that the development of Swedish alcohol taxes could put pressure on our alcohol taxes over time. Therefore, in the light of developments in Sweden, the Government will keep under review the taxes on alcohol, including: in the budget for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e693	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to my data, of the total consumption of spirits in Norway, there is only about one. 45 pst. which is sold over the discs of the Vinmonopole. This means that the remainder of the consumption expenditure, approx. 55 pst., must come from so-called unregistered placing on the market, which involves illegal imports, i.e. smuggling, illegal production, tourist imports, duty-free sales and, of course, from turnover along the borders with Sweden, legally purchased just here. Tell this finance minister that Norway needs to do something about our ability to obtain this legal product in a simpler and cheaper way to just reduce the trade leakage we have to Sweden, and respect those of us who want, for example. a red wine bottle for the Saturday shoe without having to plan this long time in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e700	The government proposed to reduce the spirits tax by 17,5 p.m.. in the budget for 2001. So the government has followed up the problem that the representative here is dealing with. I find that we did not get a majority in Stortinget for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e705	I thank the Council once again for the answer. In his first reply, the Minister of Finance indicated that the imports from Sweden represented under 2 pst. of the total consumption of wine and spirits in Norway. But if you look at the 2 pst, these represent a lot for the Norwegian wine monopolies along the border. For them, this means a lot more than 2 pst. That way, we get a big commercial leak, which will increase gradually. Sees the council that these 2 pst. are on a national basis, while for the wine monopolies along the border there is a large part of the turnover, which could have remained in Norway whose prices and opportunities had been present?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e712	I just answered that. The government proposed a significant reduction in the spirits levy – contrary to the budgetary settlements where the Progress Party agreed with the centre, where no such reduction was made. However, I note that the Government did not endorse the proposal submitted to the Stortinget. But it's a question that we're going to consider on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e717	So we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e723	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister of Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e726	I have asked the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: «We have previously heard that there is no coordinated coastal surveillance in this country. In the context of the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease on the continent, there has been an established withdrawal of bovine and porcine products from this country, and border controls against Sweden have intensified. There are only 55 customs offices, while there are more than 1,000 ports. How can the Council of States guarantee an overview of all ships calling at Norwegian ports after being abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e735	The driver of the vessel arriving in Norwegian port from abroad is obliged to go directly to the place where the customs and charging seat is stationed, unless permission to go elsewhere has been obtained in advance. When the ship has arrived from abroad, the driver is obliged to report the arrival. The driver usually provides information on the journey route and the load in the form of a prior notification to the customs and charging seat. No unloading or removal of goods from a ship arriving from abroad shall take place without the permission of the establishment. In the context of the temporary ban on the introduction of special animal products from the EU due to foot-and-mouth disease, the customs and charging seat has increased preparedness and implemented a number of measures which also include the control of ships arriving from abroad. It also follows from the Schengen cooperation that the master of vessels arriving in the Norwegian territory or port from abroad is obliged to notify his arrival to several public authorities, inter alia. the veterinary authorities. Vessel drivers also have obligations to provide police officers with an overview of crew and passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e744	I take it for granted that the Council of State does not know how to provide supplies on board a ship. But the minister is well aware that a shipowner mainly buys supplies on export, i.e. duty-free, when a ship is intended to sail abroad? This provision may have arrived from outside the EU, for example: Africa, or from a free port of transhipment of an EU/EEA country. Thus, a vessel can unhinderedly carry goods, i.e. supplies, from third countries, and consume food on board, while polluting packaging is thrown into containers on land. Is the Minister concerned about this potential source of infection as much as about the border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e751	As the Minister of Agriculture has repeatedly stressed, following up the temporary ban on imports will require a loyal follow-up from the public and from business activities, and it will require close interaction between the population and the authorities. Of course, this is also the case. We cannot ignore the fact that, in some cases, there will be situations in which you can circumvent the ban by illegally introducing goods or otherwise contributing by, for example: garbage is landfilled. But we have to assume here that the population has the same interest as the authorities, namely to avoid the risk of spread of infection, and then to be loyal in relation to the import ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e758	The Council of State has not understood this. It's not just Norwegian vessels. Foreign vessels are, to a large extent, on this coast, and they are not very loyal to Norwegian regulations or orders. We have ten departments to control and monitor what is happening on the coast – I am going to ram them up in full speed: the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health – and no one knows what the other departments are doing. I have said this here in Stortinget once after time: you are exposed with your pants down! Let's say that a ship has previously been in the searchlight of the veterinary authorities. A few months later, the ship arrives again at a Norwegian port. How can the veterinary authorities keep themselves informed of the ship's approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e767	As I explained in my first answer, it is such that there are clear rules as to how the ship, and the driver of the ship, should behave when they call at the Norwegian port after being abroad. I have to assume that the ship's driver follows these rules. I also have to assume that there is an interaction between the population, the business community and the authorities in their desire to limit the risk of spreading infection. Of course, there are many theoretical possibilities to bypass this. First, however, we must take the view that the legislation is being followed in good faith, and secondly, we must take control measures that help to strengthen the follow-up to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e774	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e780	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The Oslo Sikh Association has asked for a permanent visa scheme for specialised professionals. The association has provided a professional justification for why a desire for shifting performances over permanent employees, but has been refused. Thus, the law on alienation appears to prevent the congregation from exercising its religion satisfactorily. Will the Government take the initiative to amend the legislation if it is not possible to grant an exception in order to resolve the problem of the congregation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e789	As Stortinget is well-known, I cannot comment on the individual issues on which the representative Rangtvedt's question is based. However, I have understood that the Sikh community does not want a permanent pastor in the congregation, but instead will recruit new pastors who will work in Norway for three months without a work permit, but on the basis of a visa. I have also understood that the congregation wants this as a permanent arrangement. A general rule under the Foreign Affairs Act is that a foreigner must have a work permit to work in Norway. A scheme proposed by the Sikh community would run counter to this. I am aware that the Sikh community was briefed on the rules in meeting State Secretary Meland in the Ministry of Justice on 8 May last year and in a letter from the Ministry of Justice dated 20 July last year. The Sikh Association has also been made aware of the possibilities for applying for a work permit. The government wants decorations and simplifications in foreign legislation, including: to facilitate the recruitment of skilled labour to Norway. However, the general rule that the person who is going to work in Norway must have a work permit is not to be waived. I hope that the proposals for simplification that the Government is in favour of will contribute to a more effective procedure also based on the need to recruit foreign ministers for work in Norwegian congregations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e798	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I at least see as something positive. Norway has become a multicultural society with many different religious communities. But the treatment that the Sikh community has received from the Ministry of Justice suggests that we have a foreign legislation that is not flexible enough to take account of the special needs that can exist in a multicultural society. It may also seem that the department has not understood that there are very special experts asking for permission to collect, and that there is little time to work in Norway on the part of these experts. The experts requested have very long and very extensive training and experience. This is also the background to the fact that it is very small that they want to stay stuck in Norway. Without these experts, different ceremonies can only be carried out in simplified form in the congregation, and this limits the possibility of religious practice. Doesn't the Council of State see that this can mean that you have to take special care of yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e810	Foreign legislation is clear on the point that if one comes from other countries, one must have a work permit to work in Norway, and the Government does not intend to change that point. We do not want to allow one to work on the basis of that, for example. has a visa. Today, however, we are making a number of regulatory simplifications to get more people from other countries to come here and work where it is needed. Of course, there is also something that will apply to the clergy where there is a need for it. However, the general rule that a work permit must be the basis for working here or not, does not want to depart from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e815	I thank you once again for the answer, and I am glad that there will now be an embellishment of the legislation. I really hope that the ministry will want to look at this matter again and see if it can be possible to find a solution in consultation with the community, which sees this situation as very frustrating. With common sense, it is difficult to understand why a person cannot find solutions or exceptions that allow the experts concerned to come to Norway and practice in the congregation for a time, then return to their main business in the home country. Such a system would not be burdensome for anyone and would be of great benefit to very many people. So there are 5,000 Sikhs in Norway, and most of them visit this congregation's collection site on a regular basis. The assembly has been refused on the grounds that they applied for three priests for three months at a time, and it has been established that this would be contrary to the legislation. The community is willing to find intermediate solutions, as far as I'm aware. Will the Council of States be open to review this matter in concrete terms in order to arrive at a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e824	I have no opportunity to go into such individual matters. I have no opportunity to instruct the UDI or the Foreign Affairs Department in individual cases according to the changes in the Foreign Affairs Act that have been made as of 1 January of this year. If the Sikh community has other information than what they have so far submitted to the UDI or, where appropriate, the UDI, they must take it up with them. But as far as the general legislation is concerned, the Government does not intend to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e833	‘The Ministry has refused to approve the construction of Follo Hospital. 140 000 people in Akershus and Østfold do not receive the promised local hospital. These have not been provided for in the planning of the new Central Hospital in Akershus and in a new central hospital in Eastfold. How will the Council of State cover the necessary health provision for the pass-by population of Akershus and Østfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e840	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has recently reviewed and approved regional health plans for the five health regions of Norway. It has been necessary for the approval to take some reservations and clarify some assumptions on the part of the Ministry. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship with the major development projects referred to in the plans. The plans provide for the mention of major development projects, depending on the location of the project in the planning. However, the Ministry has clarified that the approval of each regional health plan does not involve the approval of the individual development project mentioned in the health plan. It must be stressed that regional health plan decisions do not alter established rules and practices for the approval of hospitals. It is not the region, but the individual county that is responsible for ownership and investment in hospitals. Each project, when completed, must be promoted by each county for approval in the department, possibly government and enlargement. Akershus County Municipality has not yet applied for approval of the construction of Follo Hospital. It is therefore not the case that the Ministry has refused to approve this construction project. However, through the decision of the Regional Health Plan, the Ministry has stated that there is no basis for deciding on the construction of a new hospital in Follo at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e851	Now it is the case that before Christmas the department sent a letter to the county with some new signals in relation to the approval of the projects in Akershus, among others. a no for connection between New SiA and Follo Hospital. The ministry announced a closer review of the relationship with other hospitals in Oslo, especially Aker. Several empty floors on Aker are not a good solution for Akershus. We will not, in the future, be given the Agency's sacred budget balance, and I refer to Ullevål's situation over time. What will the Council of State do to prevent such reprisals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e858	It is true that in our communication with Akershu County Council we have raised the question of a possible connection between a new SiA and a possible new hospital in Follo. What we have said in this context is that we want to decide on a possible application for a new SIA regardless of whether to also decide on a project in Follo. We have said that if the county itself believes that there is such a link, the department must of course also have submitted both projects in order to make a decision, which in turn will mean a further postponement of the treatment of New SiA. Moreover, I believe that all such projects must be seen in the context of the capacity of the region, including the other hospitals in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e865	Co-location of psychiatric and somatic disorders will result in a significant increase in the quality of treatment provision, especially for patients. This is the case with Follo and New SiA and the dimensioning of both. Free beds elsewhere in the region will help poorly on this relationship. If the necessary processing capacity related to these beds does not exist, this capacity must be expanded. Isn't it natural then to make this increase where people knowingly live?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e870	It is always an objective to provide capacity for hospital services, somatic or psychiatric, as far as possible where the population lives and needs services. At the same time, there must be an understanding of the need to see capacity and offer within a region, or within any geographical area, in a certain context. That's why we've said in our communication with the county council that the different projects they're promoting, they themselves have to consider whether to see in context, or whether to evaluate them independently of each other. This is the latest in the case of projects in Akershu County. This does not prevent you from making the connections that the representative Ursula Evje here asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e878	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘It may seem that patients are more likely to suffer minor and major harm in the Norwegian healthcare system now than before. This can lead to the patient, sometimes for a long time, becoming dependent on services, treatment and medicine. It feels very unfair for those who experience this, that excesses are to be paid for the creation or relief of damage that has been done to them. Will the Council of State consider exempting, at least, those who have been awarded damages to patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e887	In the case of patients who have suffered damage in the Norwegian healthcare system, those who are awarded damages to patients will be assumed to have all their expenses covered by the compensation payment. This also applies to the excesses for the creation or relief of damage caused to them. On this basis, I don't think it is right to exempt this group from paying prostheses. Patients who have suffered damage during treatment in parts of the private specialist healthcare service are currently not covered by Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. In some cases, it has proved difficult to achieve a claim for compensation for these patients. However, the government has submitted a bill that extends the patient injury regime to include private healthcare, and I refer here to Ot.prp. No 55 for 1999-2000, on the Patient Injury Compensation Act, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom. With this law, all patients will have the same rights and the requirements will be dealt with in accordance with the same legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e894	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. There are more and more people who turn to me and ask whether it may be right that patients should be required to have their share of follow-up treatment for damage caused by the healthcare system to the patient. I can understand the practical difficulty of keeping these patients apart during a busy everyday life in hospitals and outpatient clinics. Equally, I believe it is completely unreasonable that patients who have suffered damage during hospital treatment, during the follow-up and treatment of this damage, should be required to pay for their indebtedness. Does the Minister of Health not also think that this can be very unreasonable in relation to the individual patient, who has to pay from DKK 185 up and down for each consultation? I am talking about the damage that has been done in public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e901	Yes, I understand that this can be seen as unreasonable, but I repeat that if these patients are admitted to compensation for the damage caused, they will also have already been paid the cost of the future treatment for the repair or relief of the damage that has been caused, and it is therefore also right that they should be charged for the excesses for which they have been paid in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e906	I thank you again for the answer from the Minister of Health. The starting point for this issue concerns a patient who has also been admitted to a patient injury claim. In a case like this, I think it absolutely must be right that this patient is exempted from self-interest, which the patient does not become. The case is that it takes between two and three years to settle a patient injury claim from the Patient Injury Compensation Study. In the meantime, the patients go to the hospital and receive post-treatment and follow-up and have to pay each time from 185 kroner and up. This, I think, is unreasonable. Could it not be put into practice that patients who are injured in hospitals can pick up these excesses and get them refunded from the hospital that has damaged the patient? It should be a simple, good practice to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e913	I fully agree that the length of the procedure in such cases may be a burden for the patients involved, and that it may seem unreasonable. I repeat that if a replacement is awarded because it is proven that it has actually been damaged, these excesses will also be refunded through the compensation measurement. The problem is that if you pick up, as the representative of Alvheim here suggests, you are of course at risk of getting into the situation that it is not shown that there is an injury that has been caused, and you will then have to pay the actual costs. But without knowing the specific matter referred to here, it should in my view be possible to find practical arrangements for the problems that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e921	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In connection with the treatment of the Patient Rights Act, it was legal that all counties should have a patient representative. This ombudsman should have a free position so that one should not be subject to political instructions from the county council. However, there have been cases where a county council will instruct the patient representative to be a secretary to the Patient Ombudsman Council in the county, against the wishes of the Ombudsman. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the provisions of the Act on the independence of the Ombudsman?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e930	The patient representative system shall satisfy two overriding considerations. First, it shall ensure that patients have their health rights respected. Secondly, it should be a means of maintaining and improving the quality of health care. In order to carry out these tasks, it is important that the patient representative has an independent position. This was an important prerequisite in the preparation of the provisions on patient representative in the Patient Rights Act, which was adopted by the Stortinget in 1999. It was pointed out in the preparation of the provisions on patients’ representatives that county associations would provide a direct link to those authorities that have the administrative responsibility for the part of the healthcare in question. However, experience from the patient representative system prior to its legalisation suggests that patients’ representatives have been able to have an independent role. In order to ensure that there is no doubt that the patient representative is independent of the responsible body, a provision was included in the second paragraph of Section 8-2 of the Patient Rights Act that ‘The Ombudsman shall carry out his activities independently and independently’. The preparatory work of the Patient Rights Act will leave it up to the individual county council to decide whether to attach an advisory panel to the patient representative in the county, as has been done for several patient representatives under the former scheme. This may be done, provided that the county council is not, by means of the advisory panel, given an instruction authority to the patient representative in individual cases. It will be up to the individual patient ombudsman and county council to find solutions that allow the patient ombudsman to carry out his duties satisfactorily. It follows from this that I believe that a county council should be restrained from instructing the patient representative to carry out tasks against the Ombudsman's will. At the same time, I must stress that I do not mean to take any concrete position on the cases referred to by the representative Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e941	I am here with the instructions for the patient representative in Northern Ireland, which is at the heart of the matter here. And I would like to be allowed to refer from Section 12, where you say in other sections: «The patient ombudsman shall provide the Patient Ombudsman Council with information on the plans of the patient ombudsman.» And in the third paragraph: ‘The patient representative shall be the secretary of the Patient Ombudsman Council. The Ombudsman shall have the right to speak and propose, but shall not have the right to vote.’.» The Patient Ombudsman Council, inter alia: in the Nordic region, consists of three politicians and two others. The Ombudsman has made it clear that it does not want the secretarial function of this Council, both for the purpose of working capacity and for the purposes of its legal purpose, because of any governance. Does the Minister of Health not see the problem that the county council wants to force a patient representative into the type of role proposed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e958	I refer again to what I have said, that it is a prerequisite for the patient ombudsman system to be able to work completely independently, also by the body that owns the institutions that the patient ombudsman has its role in relation to. And it follows from what I said, that a county council should not be able to instruct the patient representative in individual cases. I also believe that this is due to the fact that a county council should not instruct a patient representative to carry out tasks that the patient representative himself believes are incompatible with the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e963	There is, of course, variation in the way individual county councils have implemented the patient representative scheme, and not all of them, among other things. has a patient ombudsman board. The patient representative in the Nordic region was probably the first patient representative to put in place in this country, if not my knowledge in that area is completely wrong. They were at least very early out. It must be stressed here that the patient representative himself feels that this would be contrary to what a patient representative is going to do, and one also feels a conflict with what the Patient Rights Act stressed in relation to the independent position. I'm not going to try to draw the Council of States even further in giving an answer, either in one direction or another. However, we now find ourselves in a situation with a possible state acquisition of hospitals in Norway. Will the Council of State then again consider how the patient ombudsman role should work?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e972	The last thing I can do is confirm. I will, of course, consider that. There is something we are concerned about in the preparation of the bulk proposal that comes about a state acquisition of the specialist health service. I have to say again that it is difficult to decide on specific individual matters that are presented in this way, but I repeat that the condition of the law is that a patient representative should work independently, and that a county council should not instruct a patient representative in individual cases, nor otherwise define the work of the patient representative in such a way that the Ombudsman himself finds incompatible with the law's intention of independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e982	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «During the treatment of St.prp. No 87 for 1991-92 On a new rickshospital, Stortinget decided that in the construction of a new rickshospital it would also be built a new hospital in Follo. A new hospital in Follo is not included in the Social and Health Ministry’s decision on regional health plans for 2001–04. Does this mean that the Government and the Council of State will not follow up the Stortingen's decision to build a new hospital in Follo?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e991	Let me first mention the relationship between construction projects and regional health plan. Regional health plans shall mention major construction projects, depending on the progress made in planning the project. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has underlined that regional health plan decisions do not mean the approval of individual construction projects mentioned in the health plan. The approval of the construction project will follow the established rules and approval schemes, based on the application by the individual county. In 1988, in the context of the review of the construction of the New Rikshospital, the majority of the Social Committee at the Innst. S. No 308 for 1987-88 the following: ‘The majority understand that the choice of Gaustad as the location of a new rickshospital presupposes the construction of a new local hospital in Follo by Akershus County Municipality. The majority assumes that representatives of the hospitals concerned and of the user groups in health region 2 are involved in the further planning work.» I do not see this as a final decision on, rather, the approval of a new hospital project, but as an expression that the Stortinget has provided that the district council promotes such a project based on the assessments that the county council must make in terms of future needs. It is on such a basis that the Government and the Council of State can follow the assumption of the Grand Duchy. There is no such application from Akershus today. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has, as you know, underlined that the approval of the regional health plan, which includes Akershus, does not involve the approval of the development projects recommended. By decision of the Regional Health Plan, the Ministry has stated that no basis has been found for deciding on the construction of a new hospital in Follo at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1007	I thank you for your answer. I was about to say that now it was about keeping my tongue straight in my mouth, for this was not obvious to understand at first. What matters to me now is the status of what I refer to in my question, i.e. St.prp. No 87 for 1991-92, which has an Annex 2 which refers to the construction of a new hospital in Follo on the basis of the decision on the location of the Rikshospitalet in Gaustad. What's this status? Is it so that the government sees this as the Stortinget wants a hospital to be built in Follo, I can in a follow-up come back to what the further procedure might be like?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1014	I have at least tried to clarify the status I do not think it has, by saying that I do not perceive it as having been approved by the Stortinget in 1988, as the Stortinget thus approved a specific extension project for the hospital in Follo. What Stortinget expresses is a premise that Akershus County Municipality will build a new local hospital in Follo, and I assume that it is believed that Akershus County Council must make proposals for, in concrete terms, the various considerations that the county council has to take in relation to the coverage of hospital services in the county municipality. And that's what I'm saying: Such an application, such a project does not exist today. The Government must follow up its decision on the basis of the type of project proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1019	I suppose the Council of State understands that after ten years of waiting, the Follo people are somewhat disappointed that there has been no clear answer as to whether or not a hospital will be built. So let me ask the question in a slightly different way. I know that Akershu County Council has been asked by the Department to investigate three projects. Now that you're asking for it, is it so to understand that the Council of State believes that there is a need for a hospital in Follo? That's what's the jumping point now. Can we count on support from the Labour Party Government if such an application is formally promoted from Akershu County?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1024	I must again try to keep my tongue so far in my mouth that I am not here and now giving myself to deal with a specific project, and stress that there is a question that any health authority must address on the basis of a proposal from the responsible builder, which in this case will be the county municipality. It is understandable that many years of waiting can lead to impatience, but at the same time I must stress that it is the county council which, based on the county council's assessment of needs and how best to meet the needs, has to come up with the projects to be decided and approved by the health authorities. But otherwise, I think I can assure you that any government council and government will know that the Storting's assumptions will somehow also be followed up by practical action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1039	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1045	This question, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1048	I would like to ask the Minister of Health, who will answer on behalf of the Minister of Culture, the following questions: ‘I’m going to see Dagbladet’s web page under the column ‘in your opinion’ on 15 March 2001. Can the Council of State ensure that the editorial responsibility for web newspapers is indebted to them in the same way as for paper newspapers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1057	The Internet is not a legal room. In general, the same laws apply as elsewhere in Norwegian society. With regard to the provisions of the criminal law on editorial responsibility, it is per year. the extent and the extent to which these apply to Internet-based services, such as online newspapers. The Ministry of Culture is now working with the Ministry of Justice to clarify the editorial responsibilities of electronic information and communication services and has set up a working group led by Professor Jon Bing for this purpose. The group's report will be available before the summer. Otherwise, I can show that Norwegian editors have highlighted a responsibility for the content published on the Internet. In October last year, the Norwegian Editorial Association launched a ‘seal’ to mark the publication according to the principles laid down in the Editorial plaque and in the ethical guidelines of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1066	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that a person is working on regulating, as in any case I experience it, a rather unregulated room. I wonder if it is uncertain whether the editor's responsibility relates to online newspapers. I was aware that it could be related to other entries on the Internet, but not newspapers. What this applies to is an article in the newspaper's web page last Thursday, March 15. It's gross shooting, because it says: "Shoot Grete Fossum!Oh, my God! A terrible man who kills other living creatures to serve the goodwill of the "book" saying." I am not particularly in doubt that these must be statements that would never have gone through in paper newspapers. I'd like to ask the council if he doesn't think this is outside of what an editor can go through. The editor of Dagbladet is also responsible for Internet newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1082	Firstly, I repeat that in general, the same laws as the Norwegian community apply to the Shikanes, threats, etc. put forward, whether over the Internet or otherwise. I also have to say that there should be no doubt about what I, the Minister of Culture or the Government think about that kind of opinion, whether it's in online newspapers or it's in other media. However, uncertainty is particularly true in relation to the criminal law editor's responsibility over the Internet, given that the definition of «editor» in Section 436 of the Criminal Act is linked to the concepts of journal, journal and broadcasting. The expert group I referred to will clarify how far this provision also applies in the network area and, where appropriate, what to do in order to clarify it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1089	I'm glad that one takes this seriously, because this is just the beginning of something that we're going to see more and more of -- not such entries, but that we get access to information and views from people over the Internet. I am pleased with this group of experts who are working, and I hope that they too, in addition to looking at these online newspapers, where it is easy to find out who is responsible, also looking at the websites, the homepages of different teams, organizations and people, to ensure that there is always a responsible person who can stand by and who has to take responsibility for what is on these pages. There have been several examples that one has gone far beyond what one should allow, on some of these Internet sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1094	I have taken note of the representative's view on this and will ensure that it is presented to the Ministry of Culture and to the group of experts I mentioned who are working on these issues and who are supposed to submit their report before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1102	This question, from Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1105	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘The offshore areas outside the North-West are among the most trafficked, weather-resilient and unclean in the country. Annually, 13 000 ships sail on the route. Traffic is growing as a result of high fishing activity, increased oil activity and large expansions such as the methanol factory on the Tjeldbergodden and the modernisation of Hydro Aluminium on Sunndal. Do the Council of State agree that there is now a need for an increased focus on safety along the coast of the North-West and that the establishment of a traffic centre on the North-Murmer coast is a proper and necessary measure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1114	I agree that there is a need for greater attention to be paid to safety along our coast. The government has therefore undertaken a work on maritime safety involving a number of ministries. This is explained in previous Questionnaires this year. The representative of Kongshaug is asking for the establishment of a traffic centre for the North West in particular. Safety at sea must be seen in a broader context. There are several factors that play in and work together to improve safety. A fundamental condition is that there are persons with good maritime knowledge on board the vessels. As from 1 May 1995, the obligation of unloading was therefore introduced within the baseline for vessels above 500 gross tonnes and at lower limits for vessels with dangerous or polluting goods. For the North West and Trøndelag, with the exception of Trondheimsfjorden, it was not previously an obligation. Vessels of any size and with all kinds of cargo could sail freely without being unloaded also in internal waters. Another key factor is the maps and navigational aids available to vessels. For example, Veritas has previously estimated that using accurate electronic maps, combined with electronic navigation aids, can reduce the number of basic supports by up to 40 pst. Improvement of the charts, including the electronic ones, is one of the areas included in the Government’s commitment to maritime safety. The experience with traffic centres, in Norway and elsewhere, is that they have the highest risk reduction effect where there is high traffic. In particular, there is the risk of such a service being affected by collisions. On the one hand, the traffic centres already established in Norway are to deal with large traffic of vessels with dangerous or polluting loads, such as the traffic centres in Brevik and in Fedje, and on the other hand a generally high and cross traffic, such as the traffic centre in Horten. The central traffic centre, which is under construction on the White Sea, will also cover a high-traffic waters. The operating costs of all existing traffic centres are borne by ship traffic. In the past, the Coastal Directorate has looked at the need for central traffic services in the North-West in connection with the establishment of the facilities on the Tjeldbergodden. The traffic was not considered to be so large that it should be built a separate traffic centre. I don't think it's right to start a discussion now about whether or not it should be a traffic hub for the North West. Safety at sea should be assessed in a broader context, as the Government is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1131	I'll be able to thank you for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that such centres are established where there's a lot of traffic. There will also be such a traffic centre in Belarus, as was mentioned here, and in addition, the Prime Minister has repeated the Minister of Fisheries signaled for some time ago that Finnmark will have its own coastal monitoring traffic centre. I want to make the Council aware that in five years' time, 40 psts are going on. of Norway’s oil-related production outside central Norway. It is about the landing of gas, condensate and the processing of gas from the Worm Lange and its further deployment. Is it not then the Council of State agrees that there are so many signals that we will have a significant increase in traffic associated with oil production outside Middle Norway, that it must have its legal place and its legitimate focus in view of a traffic centre, cf. what has been said about the Finnmark coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1140	As I said in my reply, the government believes that the issue of a traffic centre in the North West needs to be seen in a wider perspective and in conjunction with all the measures we are now working on in terms of coastal safety. In that work, we do not exclude any tools, but we would like to see them in relation to each other and evaluate them against the value of use. We will therefore continue to consider which measures can best serve safety, and in this particular area, we will place very great emphasis on many of the basic factors, such as navigational charts, labelling of the navigational manager and the obligation to leave, as I have mentioned, as a basis for assessing further concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1145	I agree with the Council of State that we need to look at this in the context of the various measures that need to be implemented, and it is gratifying that in the context of the budget, one person was again given money to continue working on digital charts. It was important. Nevertheless, I am not satisfied with the answer given. We also record that there is talk of transporting nuclear waste to Russia. We also know that oil transport from North-West Russia has had a significant increase, and this increase will lead to an increase in transport along the Norwegian coast, so it is important that one here is determined and that one is acting. If a 70,000 ton emits oil, it will cause large sections of the coastline to be asphalted. In this context, it is also important to consider an extension of the territorial limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles. Does the Minister for the Environment agree that it is important to give priority to this in order to provide the necessary time for auxiliaries in a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1156	I can confirm that the possibilities for, and the danger of, transporting nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast up to Russia are part of the challenges we are looking very closely at in maritime safety, and we have addressed this with the Russian authorities, for this is an unacceptable situation in the future. We have also taken up the relationship with oil transports in such a way that it will be necessary to extend the agreements we have with the Russian authorities, which today include alerts in case of accidents, to include warnings in case of such shipments. I hope that we will avoid transporting nuclear waste at the time of international work – a pressure on the Russian authorities – and I hope that we can get binding agreements on warning dangerous shipments on the oil side. I also believe that enlargement of the territorial border is one of the measures that can become important to enforce Norwegian law and improve coastal safety. That is why the Government is also considering this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1168	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «Through the media we are made aware that Norwegian Glass recycling has problems getting rid of collected glass in Fredrikstad. In Meråker in Nord-Trøndelag, the company Umwelttek glass is missing for its production of insulation and assesses imports from Sweden and Germany. What can be done to ensure that the glass present in Central Norway is not driven to Fredrikstad, but made available to this company?»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1177	I reacted, like the representative Gaundal, with wonder when I was made aware of this matter. It seems natural that glass collected in Central Norway is used for recycling in the same area. The rapporteur, Mr Langsavold in Meråker, has also addressed me in this matter. Let me first explain the role of the authorities in this matter. In line with the waste policy, the authorities have facilitated the reuse and recycling of drinking packaging through the use of taxes. The base tax on disposable packaging stimulates reuse, and the environmental tax provides incentives for recovery by reducing it as recycling progresses. The different recovery systems established by business are evaluated each year in connection with the determination of an approved return share by the SFT. If a system does not achieve a high return and recovery rate, a higher charge will be charged on the packaging. Within these framework conditions it is up to the industry actors to adapt. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the systems, the authorities do not enter into and detail the individual arrangements and their arrangements in terms of the manner or location of recovery. This is regulated by agreements between the actors, which are mainly municipalities and intermunicipal companies, recycling schemes and the recipients of the waste-based raw material, in this case the glass raw material. Norwegian Glass Recovery AS is established by importers and users of glass packaging that are subject to environmental taxes. The purpose of the enterprise is to contribute to the recycling of glass and thus to the reduction of the tax. Norwegian Glass Recovery has built up an approximate nationwide system for the collection of glass packaging, the iglo system, in agreement with the municipalities. The municipalities that collect the glass choose freely whether to cooperate with Norwegian Glass Recovery or to deliver to other potential beneficiaries such as Environmental Technology Mid-Norway AS. The Ministry of the Environment has not concluded an agreement with Norsk Glass Recovery AS. The framework conditions set out by the authorities do not prevent Environmental Technology Mid-Norway AS from reaching an agreement with the local operators or Norsk Glass Recovery AS if the economic and practical conditions are appropriate. Norwegian Glass Recovery AS is developing new applications for recycled glass and is concerned with finding new recipients of the raw material. I am aware that Norwegian Glass Recovery is interested in the fact that Environmental Technology Mid-Norway AS should be able to accept packaging glass through the iglo system in its own region and that they are in contact with the company in this regard. In order to contribute to a cost-effective approach to the objectives of waste policy, framework conditions are laid down to ensure waste minimisation and recovery. It is up to the actors to develop the concrete solutions, and it would not be natural for me to regulate the relationship between companies that are negotiating the purchase and sale of a commodity. Nevertheless, I encourage the parties to find solutions so that locally collected glass can be used by Environmental Technology in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1194	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy for the signals she gives when it comes to getting a practical solution to the situation. The company Environmental Technology Mid-Norway AS has 13 employees today. Last year the company recycled 2.7 million fluorescent lamps and 2.5 tonnes of return glass. They sold 17 000 m3 of hasopor to road and construction projects in central Norway and Sweden. Due to the lack of return glass, the company, in consultation with the employees, has decided to stop working for seven weeks. At the end of the year, the company entered into an agreement on waste glass from Sweden and the company is now negotiating receipt from Germany. This matter seems so unreasonable to me and many others because there are large amounts of glass in Middle Norway that are transported to Fredrikstad. Every year it's 5,000 tons. In addition, when there are problems to get rid of the glass in Fredrikstad, it seems reasonable to me that one should find solutions so that the company in Meråker can obtain the return glass for its production. If we are to maintain credibility and openness about the environmental system, we must avoid such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1201	I believe that the contact between the companies here can contribute to a reasonable solution by the fact that the glass collected in Central Norway is also delivered to the company Umwelttechnologie Mid-Norway AS. And I hope that the attention that is now about the matter, not least here, also contributes to such a positive result. And as I said in my answer, I'm busy encouraging the parties to find such solutions, and I believe they can do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1206	I am pleased that the Environment Minister so strongly encourages the parties to find solutions so that locally collected glass can be used by Environmental Technology Mid-Norway AS. I am aware that this has to do with both price and practical solutions between the companies, yet I believe that the answer is very good. There is also a question as to whether municipalities might get stronger on the road. As I said, measures such as this need to be designed in such a way that we receive broad attention and maintain the credibility of our environmental policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1211	I would like to keep in touch with the municipalities on matters like this, and that is why I am in contact with the rapporteur in Meråker on this matter. It is important to pay attention to such issues, because it can help to find the sensible and practical solutions we need to achieve a good environmental policy, and also to promote environmental policy by the actors set up to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1219	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1222	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture who will be answered by the Minister for the Environment: «Continent foot-and-mouth disease opens up new opportunities for the export of Norwegian agricultural products. Following significant dumping of Norwegian overproduction in 1998 and 1999, the market is now in balance. Norwegian Meat, which has market regulation responsibilities, has introduced a number of costly production-limiting measures. Does not the Council of State think it is time to wind up these measures in the light of the new export opportunities for Norwegian farmers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1231	The balancing of food markets is a key challenge in agricultural policy both in Norway and in many other countries. Due to the overproduction of meat in Norway, Norwegian Meat Cooperation as market regulator implemented several regulatory measures last year. These measures have resulted in a market balance for meat. Because we now have a balanced market, the regulatory measures for this sector are largely liquidated. It is implemented, inter alia: no regulatory export at this time. The only regulatory measure that Norwegian Meat continues to maintain is support for the specific quality production of medium-calf. However, this measure is implemented not only for regulatory reasons but also because it contributes to the establishment of a production of and a market for veal in Norway. Support for this measure has been approved by the Management Board for the first half of 2001. In general, the Turnover Council will at all times approve and dimension the regulatory measures in the light of the current market situation. Both the Council and the market regulators stress the need to avoid costly regulation financed by producers through the turnover tax. As regards the possibilities for the export of Norwegian beef, I would like to point out that the production of beef is currently adapted to domestic consumption and is only slightly oriented towards foreign markets. This is due both to our national cost and price levels and to the fact that Norwegian meat on the export market meets with high customs duties, for example. into the EU. Although Norway has a good BSE status, I think it may be short-term for Norwegian agriculture to use this as a key element in the marketing of Norwegian meat. In the long term, however, I believe that we can export agricultural products within certain niches, but that in such export work we must build on the diversity of our agriculture and our natural quality advantage rather than seeking to exploit the cow population crisis in the EU. Of course, if the export possibilities for beef were to be in question within those limits, they should be exploited. We should expect that in the future there will also be a lack of adjustment between the production and demand of Norwegian agricultural products. As there are limited opportunities for commercial accounting exports of Norwegian meat, we therefore need to maintain the possibility of taking advantage of market regulation measures in the meat sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1246	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She said quite correctly that Norwegian production is to be adapted to the Norwegian market, but the detailed market management system we have in this country in the agricultural sector does not work. In 1998 and 1999, we had a huge overproduction that had to be dumped internationally. It is a well-known economic phenomenon that when you inject significant billions into an industry, it becomes overproduction, i.e. when you use such instruments. What happened next time? Well, then the authorities put in place new measures that cost a significant million to bring production back down. I can mention this with grants for the production of medium-calves, grants for the slaughter of calves and the reduction of pig production – all this shows that the system we have is not working. Does the Council of State think it is forward-looking to continue with this detailed regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1255	We have no detailed regulation. We have had instruments that have actually led to a very good balance on the production side, and today we have a market that works. We will always have to assess the measures taken in this market, and we do not exclude the possibility that, in the longer term, we may be exporters of agricultural products within certain niches. However, this must be done within reasonable and sustainable frameworks, and there has been a good balance in the measures taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1260	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. It's true that we're now in balance. What is now feared in food production in Norway is that we will have a deficit. The farmers today charge the target prices, i.e. maximum prices, and they can even take out 10 pst. Could not This is directly contrary to what Mr Håkon Hanssen wants, namely that we should bring down food prices in Norway. Firstly, we are now at risk of getting too low a production, and there are problems importing from abroad because of cow's jealousy, etc. On the other hand, we do not exploit this competitively. What are the Council's comments on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1269	The Council's comments on this are that with the measures to be taken, we intend to achieve both a balance in the Norwegian agricultural market and, of course, to work to keep food prices low. The measures must be implemented at a pace and at a pace that is intelligent and understanding, so that we can both maintain this balance that we have now been able to achieve and look at future export opportunities, but within reasonable limits and those adapted to Norwegian agricultural production.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1274	Question 13 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1280	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘The ‘new’ playground regulations have not led to fewer accidents, but are likely to lead to reduced mobility for children, is the conclusion of a study by pre-school students in Bergen. Children need exciting motor challenges in order to evolve. When the regulations arrived, it was warned that children would face fewer exciting challenges. Will the Council of State ensure that motor challenges and developments become a theme in the evaluation of regulations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1289	Based on the question from the representative, Valle, I would like to clarify – in order to avoid misunderstandings – what the regulation on playground equipment actually regulates and what it does not regulate. The regulation does not regulate playgrounds, but provides rules on the safety of playground equipment with the aim of avoiding serious harm to children or even death due to the equipment. The regulation shall ensure that the playground equipment we adults offer to the children keeps objectives strictly safe, whether this equipment is located in a kindergarten, in a school yard, on a hatch that is open to all, or for example. in the common areas of a law of residence. The Regulation does not regulate other aspects of children’s play, either educational content, motor challenges or opportunities to develop. In this context, I have to say that it is not natural that motor challenges and developments should be an important theme in the evaluation of the regulation on the safety of playground equipment, simply because the regulation does not deal with this piece. At the same time, the Ministry has learned that both the objectives and the content of the regulation have been unclear and misunderstood by many. It is therefore natural for one to look further at the background to the fact that it has been so and whether the legislation has resulted in measures and effects that were not intended. The Ministry is now preparing, in cooperation with a consulting firm, a proposal for a larger evaluation of this regulation. The mandate and method have not yet been completed, so I do not think it appropriate to enter into a discussion either on a preliminary conclusion or on the main focus of the evaluation. But I want to say that I share Valle's commitment, and here I want to show that we are concerned that children should have good conditions for motor challenges and development. These are issues related to a debate on resources, quality and content in kindergartens and schools and on local priorities for children’s physical growth conditions, including: in spatial plans as well as through sports offers and opportunities for our children and young people for leisure and outdoor activities. So I'm dividing the engagement, and we're going to try to get focus on these issues, but not through the grip we're doing in relation to the regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1300	I thank you for the answer and agree that we need to look at the whole development of society when we are going to assess whether or not kids get enough challenges. It is important that kids get challenges so that they dare to use their bodies and thus also get good mastering experiences. This must be an overall objective when we plan what measures and resources to put in place, especially in the outdoor environment of young people. I still disagree with the Council of State when she says that this should not be a subject for the evaluation of these regulations. I would say that it was an excessive protective strain and not the consideration of young people's mobility development that was the idea behind the new playing field regulations. We're not supposed to put the kids at risk, but we're not going to take away the challenges either. A shivering wound is actually good for kids so that they can prevent the dangers of later life. And when the pre-school teachers come to this conclusion, I ask the Council of State to see if it can't be possible to open up to look at motor development in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1305	I can tell the representative, Mr Valle, that we fully agree with the objectives we have. And it's not a problem for me to look at this again, and also look at the statements of the pre-school teachers. I'll promise the representative I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1310	I'm happy about that, also because I have a background as a pediatric physiotherapist and actually know a lot about it. Also, the Council of State opened up to look at trends in the motor development of young people. This is because lack of physical activity is the reason why more and more young people are at risk of suffering from stress and that gross motor development is a prerequisite for all other developments and games. In my view, the greatest health risk is not hazardous healthcare, but that is the way we organize, for example. by the fact that the car gets more space than the kids. Good stimulation in childhood is gold worth later. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State on two things: when she looks at the quality of kindergarten – will she also consider the possibility of good mobility for young people in that context as well? And will she look at motor development and physical activity in a larger context in the context of the big picture she comes with in terms of child growth conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1321	Yes, I can take that challenge. Without saying what the conclusions are, this is a field we work with in the department, which I also explained in my answer. What kind of grip we're going to end up with, we're going to have to get back to. But, as I said, we're concerned about the issue and we're working on these questions. So here's the Workers' Party and the S.V.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1326	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-21.ana.ud39e1335	There is no record.
