ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e191	The called alternates, for East Agder County May Britt Lunde, and for Oslo Kai Ekanger, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e209	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right, Advance Party, Center Party and Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e220	The matter on which we are now starting our examination concerns the main distribution policy document Stortinget. It is about challenges for local democracy, it is about further developing the welfare society – how to ensure citizens access to good welfare solutions and services – and it is about how we finance the municipal sector, which organises and produces most welfare services people need. The Labour Party is pleased to have received a majority of the government’s financial arrangements for the local government sector for 2002. We are also pleased that the Government has joined the economic structure and the foundation of the state's acquisition of the specialist health service. We'll get this in place together with the Progress Party. The Labour Party and the Advance Party also agree that the economic settlement between the State and the county municipalities is tight and will therefore grant an additional 200 million. kr through the discretionary framework to correct the imbalances in the county economy. The other parts don't join this. The same parties will give the county councils the right to negotiate with the state, but they have no economy to negotiate about. So it's just a blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. But I guess that was also the idea behind that. The government proposes – and gets a majority for – a real increase in the total income of the municipal sector in 2002 of approximately DKK3.5 billion. For the Workers' Party, it is important both to improve the economy in the municipal sector and at the same time to ensure that municipalities are given the freedom of action to strengthen the welfare offer for all of us. The scheme for which the Workers' Party now has a majority is a very good one for those who use municipal services such as kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. This is the second year in a row that the Workers' Party provides a notable real growth for the total income of municipalities. But let me underline: this growth has been absolutely necessary. The deficit before loans in the local government sector has decreased significantly from 1999 to this year. The Workers' Party has a majority in the Committee in view of the positive nature of economic developments in the municipal sector. After two and a half years of Bondevik administration and with the entire management of the Centre Party in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the financial situation of the local government sector has worsened. The Workers' Party, after taking over the government responsibility, has contributed to a notable growth in municipal income. In addition, we compensated about 5 billion kroner for increased expenses for extended holidays, new employment contracts for teachers and pensions, last year and this year. At the same time as the municipalities have a better financial framework, they also increase their political freedom by increasing their share of free income. In 2002, the growth of free revenues is increasing by about DKK 1.7 billion. In addition, earmarked grants amounting to DKK 3.6 billion are included in the framework. This means that the Workers' Party has strengthened the economy, while strengthening local self-government. It is important to stress that the municipality means a lot about how everyday life becomes for the inhabitants. The public is becoming increasingly aware of the demands and expectations of the public sector. This requires municipalities to be able to renew, streamline and adapt and design services to the needs of citizens. In the absence of this public renewal work, the emergence of the welfare society will slowly disappear. The Workers' Party has great ambitions to expand and reconstruct the welfare community. Many young children’s parents have doubts about few and expensive kindergartens. In 2002, the government will therefore increase the bet on kindergartens by DKK 1 billion to be used to build 10,000 more kindergartens and reduce parental pay. But such a commitment to well-being and community also requires local priorities. Bodø municipality is a good example in this way, where the Labour Party rapporteur has obtained a majority of the chairmanship to reduce the parental payment in kindergarten because the Government has proposed to increase the state operating grant to kindergartens. This is an example for follow-up. The working party believes that the growth of free income allows for increased efforts to improve school buildings. We have confidence that local politicians will give priority to making schooling better for our children and grandchildren. The school shall be of high quality both in terms of content and buildings. Students must have good working conditions, and therefore we will contribute to the upgrading of school buildings that fall due. No children shall be excluded from activities because their parents cannot afford to pay. The working party will build a community where we take responsibility for each other and share with each other. This is also where the clearest lines between us and the parts on the right hand side go. The government is following up the development of care for the elderly. 500 million. NOK is allocated to 6 200 new hospital and nursing homes. The working party shall have a majority in favour of the finalisation of the action plan for the care of the elderly in line with previous assumptions. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that care for our elderly remains a municipal responsibility. The working party is satisfied with continuing to have a majority in favour of the conversion of the income system and that this is gradually taking place during the period 2002-2006. I would like to mention in particular the changes in the housing criteria made applicable from 2002. This has helped to improve the care of municipalities that, for various reasons, have a decentralised school structure. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Government will have a majority in the main lines of the economic structure of the municipal sector. Although it is only the Right Party and the Advance Party that actively support the 2002 economic framework, the Christian People's Party is also close to this one. However, it is difficult to understand which planet the Center Party is currently on. Given that it is only a little over a year since the entire central party leadership lived in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the proposals they promote in the position are beyond reality. But maybe the term ‘to buy voters’ is no longer valid for the Centre Party. With the proposal that the free revenues should be increased by DKK 4 billion in addition to the Government's proposal and debt cancellation of NOK 12 billion, the hospital debt excluded, it is more likely to be an expression of buying for choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e256	The representative Eriksen stated that the Workers' Party was pleased that they had obtained a majority. The Labour Party has now received a majority for its arrangement, supported not least by the Progress Party. At the same time, the representative describes the proposals from among others. Christian People's Party as 'bla-bla-proposals'. I find that to be a remarkable parliamentary expression. What we have proposed is that the Government should put any budgetary implications of the negotiations that we are proposing before the Storting. It would be pointless to express in advance what the result of these negotiations would cost. Then there are no real negotiations. I'm surprised that the Workers' Party is just doing something so important for society, for Norway, like the municipal economy, is looking for its alliance partners where they have done it this year. I believed the Christian People's Party and the other central parties in this area were the ones who should and could form a majority with the Workers' Party. I want to take a strong distance from the ‘blah-blah-proposals’ and ask Eriksen if it is not common in the Workers’ Party to negotiate first – before drawing the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e267	The representative of Østberg initially focuses on the fact that we initially have support from the Progress Party in parts of this setting, and that is in many ways correct. I have no feeling that the Progress Party supports the Workers' Party in the implementation of the greatest health reform of the times. That's where we find the clearest support for the Workers' Party's arrangement. We are also in the situation that together we are able to accept the Government's way of laying the economic foundation for the state's acquisition of hospitals. We also accept that this is a tight scheme, and that's why we're able to increase the appropriations by another 200 million. kr. What's amazing is that the other parties are not able to show how much extra one is willing to add to the county councils, while saying that the financial structure associated with the hospitalization is too poor. We are looking for alliance partners where it is possible to find them, in support of the Labour Party's policies and the government's arrangements. We initially had a strong wish that the Christian People's Party and the rest of the centre could give us the same support. It wasn't possible. This is incomprehensible in relation to the financial framework conditions with which the central parties contributed towards the municipal sector at the time they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e276	The previous representative touched on a very important topic, namely the willingness of the Labour Party to talk to someone about the process we have had about the local economy. It has been more or less absent. From the right, we have said that for our part, there has been one thing that has been significant, and that is to follow up what the committee agreed on when, in the previous period, the Rattsø study was dealt with, namely that when you had to change a wide range of criteria and put it into the income system, you should do it together. What the government is now proposing is to introduce housing criteria because the Bondevik government just chose to investigate it. Despite the fact that last year the Stortinget asked for criteria and weights for drugs and psychiatry, one has not been able to find out objective criteria for it yet. I would say that in part is a lack of creativity and will. But for our part, it has been important that in the other area that was really underlined in the previous period, it was not taken into account the costs that make differences between municipalities, namely, that the larger cities become collection sites for the problems of the whole country, especially related to drug use. This means that social expenditure is increasing, that they have to put in place extra measures that are not needed by other municipalities, and that makes them spend a lot more money on this and get no weighting or counting in the income system and the distribution here. At the same time, we see that municipalities such as Both Trondheim and Bergen are now very close to 90 pst. – i.e. very close to the lowest threshold – in relation to income to the municipality. That's why we suggested that as an additional grant only in this period, until it was possible to add some criteria, we should add 200 million. in the income system to take this into account – to address the acute problems that some of the larger cities have. The working party keeps saying that they want to do something for the big cities, but when it comes to the realities, they don't do anything. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e285	The Labour Party does nothing for the big cities," said the representative Solberg. After all, it is the Workers' Party that has taken up the income system itself that is increasingly responsible for the interests of the population-rich areas of this country. The increasing emphasis on objective criteria helps to better address the challenges facing larger centres of population compared to what has been part of the income system in the past. In addition, the Workers' Party actually took the initiative to put the capital grant in place in its time. So the claims that the Workers' Party does not respect the concerns expressed here by the representative, Solberg, are incorrect. 2001 is the first year in which we see that KOSTRA can work. And that's our reason why we're not at this point set to sign out a so-called rush/psychiatry criterion. We'll look at the data base that it'll be possible to get out of the KOSTRA system before we can add such a criterion into the income system. What will happen in the years to come is therefore somewhat uncertain. But at least we have to have sufficient data to produce criteria that are perceived to be fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e294	I would first like to start by congratulating the Labour Party on the fact that, together with the Progress Party, they have managed to implement what the representative Eriksen calls perhaps the greatest health reform ever in Norway, simply the state takeover of hospitals. And it's not so strange – it's only fair and reasonable that the two parties who are also responsible for the decision that was taken the previous day follow this up in the municipal proposition for 2002. So to the question, a year ago, the Labour Party was talking a lot about the renewal of the public sector, about efficiency, rationalization, getting more out of every penny an investor in the public sector. The Prime Minister mentioned that one could save NOK 3 billion only for administrative expenses by shutting down the county council. It was a Sandbeck report that Jørgen Kosmo put in the drawer every now and then – probably after the national meeting in the Labour Party. It was a competitive outing that was then the provocative word. And I felt that a year ago, the Labour Party actually talked a lot about that they could think about whether anyone other than the public could produce the services for which the public was responsible, but not necessarily having to produce itself. Then is my question to the representative Eriksen: Can we expect a new turnaround in the Workers' Party, a liberation from the Local Association and the LO, against the fact that we can now really renew the public sector through the suspension of public service production so that private individuals can produce these services and pay the public money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e303	There was a lot to be done, but I do not think that the representative Solholm should have the very great expectations of the problem of releasing us from the LO and the Municipal Association, at least not in addition to the release the representative must have registered for the implementation of the major health reform. It should perhaps be an expression that you are able to handle and look differently at the issues also between us. The renewal of the public sector is one of the main areas of work of the Labour Party Government and a continuous process in progress, not least in Municipality-Norway. It is a little vehement to get to grips with the actual announcement of progress in the renewal work when we have just implemented a comprehensive health reform, and yesterday we discussed a change of defence where the same kind of issues need to be addressed. Competition is something that is constantly happening in Kommune-Norway. We have also just made major changes and renewals in the judiciary and in the police, so the renewal work that the representative Solholm is calling for is actually a good one. The question relating to the county council I think we are leaving to the next case on the agenda. On the other hand, I would like to try to fix a problem in the setting. On page 36, second column at the bottom, the Workers' Party shall also take part in the comments of the'second majority', so that it becomes a comment of the Committee. The sentence starting at the bottom of page 36 is thus replaced by the following: «The Committee considers the projects of health care and care from municipalities with a lower coverage», etc. The note behind the whole Committee shall be preceded by the second sentence of the first column of page 37, which shall end with ‘within the deadline of 1 October’. The sentence shall then begin as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Christian People’s Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, consider it impossible to estimate any number today’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e325	The President has registered creation. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e330	In the municipal bill, the Government refers to the financial arrangement for 2002 in Chapter 2. In Chapter 2.3, the Government deals with the state acquisition of the specialist health service and its consequences for the community scheme. Both in connection with Ot. pp. No 66 and in the Municipal Proposition, the Government states: ‘The Ministry will state that the general principle of economic settlement is that, following the transfer of the activities relating to the specialist health service, the county councils shall have sufficient financial capacity to perform the other tasks assigned to them.’;» This general principle agrees with the Christian People's Party. However, it is fatal that the model used by the Government to calculate extraction shares has such dramatic consequences for the counties that the Government collides with its own principle that the county municipalities have sufficient finances to perform their other tasks. I have a strong experience that the government's policy is tightening up, not to say dramatically reducing the economic space of the county councils so that it painfully departs at death. How, after this arrangement, it is possible to get people to take on political positions in the county municipality, I don't understand. It is hardly by chance that it is the Progress Party that provides the Workers' Party with support for the municipal scheme in terms of the extraction from the county municipalities. The party of progress has long proposed that the counties should be closed. With this arrangement, they will succeed far on the way. In examining the principles of debt settlement, the Ministry: ‘... based on general and stencil-based calculations and careful use of individual assessments. The Ministry considers that such an individual assessment of the situation in each county municipality would be very resource-intensive...». The Christian People's Party deeply disagrees with these assessments. This underscores that the so - called hospital reform is premature and, in any case, too poorly prepared. During the Committee's hearings, KS was clear in its message: individual negotiations must be conducted with the county municipalities. A number of county councils have asked for negotiations and strong descriptions of the consequences they will have if the government's arrangements are implemented. On this basis, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have presented proposal No. 13 that the counties are given the right to individual negotiations with the State on compensation for, inter alia, transfer of ownership to hospitals. Negotiations shall include compensation for the entire deficit in 2001. The Christian People's Party is also the co-sponsor for proposal No. 1 involving, inter alia, negotiations on coverage of the deficit until 1 June 2001. The second theme I want to address is the development of nursing homes and nursing homes within the Action Plan for the Elderly. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this effort be completed so that all municipalities who want it can obtain a coverage of 25 pst. measured by the number of older persons over 80 years in the municipalities. Only when the deadline for applying expires on 1 October of this year do we know exactly how many housing units the municipalities need to build. This will then have to be addressed in the context of the 2002 State budget. There are many signals from the municipalities about the continuing need for development. The Christian People’s Party has therefore proposed in the revised national budget that the Government of the State budget for 2002 submit a plan for the extension of the elderly care action plan. It has been decided to build 5,800 housing units this year. However, reports from the county officials show that priority projects are already in line until 2002 among the county councillors. This believes the Christian People's Party is a very poor solution, because the costs are rising and the municipalities need these places as quickly as possible for the sake of the elderly. In examining the action plan for the care of the elderly after 2 years, Stortinget unanimously decided to build 6 200 units in 2002. In order to support the development of care for the elderly, the Christian People's Party believes that commitments should be given to municipalities to start building up to 2000 out of the 6,200 units with the care and care services that Stortinget has decided to build next year. The Committee has been concerned with particularly resource-intensive users. All will increase the funds made available. The majority want a top funding scheme, and I expect the Government to follow up on this. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party propose that the municipalities should cover 80 pst. of costs in addition to an excess of NOK 600 000. The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party propose 100 pst. coverage in excess of the same amount. The right proposes a top-level funding scheme. The Christian People's Party believes that the municipality's financial framework in 2002 needs to be increased by 500 million. kr. This increase will mainly cover costs for resource-intensive users. Some municipalities experience strong growth in the population. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring these better by introducing a metropolitan grant to compensate for the special costs of big cities, including: to nursing care and psychiatry. Together with the Right, we also propose that the municipality’s population benefit should be based on the population and population composition per year. 1 October, and not 1 January of the previous year, as the scheme is now. This is something the Labour Party's rapporteur in Tromsø has asked for for several years, and he really wanted his own party to be in favour. In the light of today's rules for the breakdown grant, the Christian People's Party believes that the coercive municipalities of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik should be compensated by exceptional discretionary means for the withdrawal of the basic grant for three years, as a partial compensation. Some small municipalities may point to a happy increase in the population, but experience the passing of 3,000 inhabitants and thus lose the right to regional subsidies. This has dramatic consequences, not least for high-rate municipalities. The Government proposes that discretionary grants may be granted to these municipalities. This is not predictable enough. The Christian People’s Party therefore proposes the gradual phasing-out of the regional grant, in line with increased community grants. The Christian People's Party agrees that we should create predictability and not constantly change the income system. But this must not prevent us from correcting unfairness. The gliding Troms, from which I come, is the state where most lives have been lost. It has previously been decided here in the Storting that climate should be included as a criterion in the income system. That it's so difficult, there's no excuse for not doing this. The Christian People's Party is committed to reducing the number of earmarked grants, but cannot go in order for grants for church activities to be included in the framework grant. The church activities in the municipalities are currently organised as an independent organisation outside the municipalities and should have a separate economy. The key to the agricultural offices must be maintained. There is no point in the Oslo grant being increased from 1⁄4 million. NOK 40 million. kr, while e.g. Gausdal receives a reduction of 1.5 million. SEK to SEK 1⁄2 million. kr. The 14 municipalities that received an increase in the employer’s contribution in 2000 were promised compensation for three years. It is not acceptable that the Government proposes to reduce this by 50 pst. The Christian People's Party proposes that 100 pst be given. compensation, as promised in the past. Finally, the price adjustment of the North Norway grant has been a struggle matter for me for the entire four-year period. In contrast to the central government, the governments of the Workers' Party have not proposed this. Today, when it is proposed in the Committee's position III that 'The Government asks the Nord-Norway Government to adjust the grant for 2000', I find it a pleasure to endorse this proposal. I also take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made, and the proposals to which we are co-sponsors. I would like to point out that there is an error in the setting. Proposals Nos. 6, 7 and 8 are promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Right. The error is that the heading has fallen out, so it might look like there are other parties promoting these three proposals. I'm asking that it be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e389	The representative of Østberg has drawn up the proposals he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e394	The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) and the Center Party have separated layers on a number of proposals. Christian People's Party is e.g. not included in the Central Party’s 12 billion indebtedness resolution proposal, nor to cancel the 1300 million indebtedness of county municipalities. kr What is quite striking, but in my opinion positive, is that the Christian People's Party has a much more realistic use of money towards the municipalities than the Center Party, but probably it is that the Right is also pleased with it. Actually, it only divides 500 million. kr between the financial arrangements of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party for the municipalities next year. So this team-strategy in the center has got a real crack with the municipal structure. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party does not fall for the temptation of a choice to overwhelm the frameworks of the municipalities, but I still want to ask the representative of Østberg to analyse the total difference in the use of money towards the municipalities between the Christian People's Party and the Central Party that we see in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e403	I would like to thank the replicator for the praiseworthy words about a serious party – it is good that the Workers' Party records that the Christian People's Party is a serious and responsible party. When the replicator tells us that it only separates approx. 500 million. kr between the composition of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, it may not have passed her house that the Christian People's Party is the proposer and co-sponsor of proposals for negotiations. This we have expressed must have budgetary implications, and there is the great difference between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, together with the Advance Party, has said that they will put 200 million. kr to counties. The Christian People's Party is terrified that this is far too small. Unlike the Center Party, which the representative would like me to analyze the relationship with, we haven't numerically fixed this. We believe that the best principle is that negotiations should be conducted on a free basis first – entirely. The fatal thing is that the Labour Party does not go in to conduct these negotiations, among other things. on the grounds that this is very resource-intensive, while we know that some of the extracts are completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e412	Like the previous replicator, I'd say it's not that easy to stop wondering about the center that's been linked in the past. The revised national budget is also worth such a study, and in these days it may seem that it has been an objective in itself for the centre to prevent majority voting for some proposals – perhaps it is the bond that we do not see so easily. So the center spreads for all wins – even in this setting, the center cracks. The Christian People's Party will have peace in terms of corporate tax. There, this party has been unequivocally hopeless and has removed the incentive for value creation in the municipalities. But with regard to the designation of the school leisure system, Christian People's Party is waving. The Christian People's Party has, in the past, provided a majority for the reasonable inclusion of earmarked grants – a significant amount that could in many ways bring us closer to local democratic self-determination. This year, the Christian People's Party has taken a new stance on this topic. Can the representative of the Christian People’s Party explain why this change of course also came about?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e421	When the representative Hoddevik says that the center is spreading for everyone wins, I see it more as a profitable wish than a realistic description of reality. The centre party and the Christian People's Party stand together in a series of suggestions in this setting, and I can promise that the centre will come back strongly. But we act as independent parties, also in this case. The representative Hoddevik described the Christian People's Party's position on corporate tax as 'hopeless', and from the Right's point of view, I can imagine that this is true. Because we've been in favour of a system of corporation tax that would give a better distribution, and the right is not the party that tends to speak for a good and fair distribution. It is not the company tax that leads to municipalities, for example: rates of industrial growth or business growth – this is what municipalities do in any case, no matter how we organise corporate tax. So finally, about the school leisure scheme, which Mr. Hoddevik brought up. Mr. Hoddevik is right in saying that this year's Christian People's Party has changed its position in relation to last year. We have done that because we see with great concern the price that the parents are about to pay. We don't want the school leisure system to become a system that those who can't afford to participate in. We want to ensure that parents make a reasonable payment. That is why we have changed our attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e430	The representatives of Brørby and Hoddevik believed that there was a growing gap between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. I'm also going to say a few words about that. The representative of Østberg now performed to say that the Right is not in favour of a good and fair distribution policy – in this context implicitly: they are in favour of corporate taxation. Now it is true that the Center Party is also in favour of corporate tax, together with the Right and the Advance Party, and then the representative of Østberg will have a small problem vis-à-vis his own central party friend. I will also be allowed to come up with something that I consider to be a fairly curious proposal from, among other things. Christian People's Party. There is, of course, a proposal to introduce a climate supplement in cold areas of the country, and one can almost have reason to ask: Is this serious? In that case, what municipalities will receive more heating money? And should the criteria for this be to measure the depth of frost, or should a look at the scale, or should a look at how long the winters are? It's probably complicated to figure out which states and municipalities are going to get this climate supplement. Many municipalities will certainly be able to claim such an addition. It was also the case that the Christian People's Party in the budget for this year did its best to increase electricity charges – they increased their record volume across the country. But now they've got some kind of bad conscience and will at least give some municipalities something back in the form of an air conditioning supplement, as I understand it. However, this somewhat unusual proposal irritates my curiosity to the extent that I would like the Christian People's Party to say something more about what this is all about. Is it the case that Norway becomes somewhat simpler by introducing this climate criterion into the cost keys?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e443	Yes, sometimes it cracks between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. And that's exactly what the replicator is right about. But what is striking is that the parties of Advancement and Workers' Party continue to agree – in more and more cases – despite the fact that they often like to view themselves as main enemies. With regard to the climate criterion, the Rattsø committee just said in its investigation that this criterion should be included, and the Stortinget has previously stated that it needs to be included. Representative Andersen is right that it's probably difficult, but we have a device to investigate this kind of thing, and it's the government that's responsible for it. The representative, Andersen, cannot, among other things: on the journeys undertaken by the Municipal Committee, have avoided recording that the differences in expenditure due to the climate in that country must be reasonably large and that is precisely the system to be taken. When roads are closed for weeks in my own state, and when we drive in Finnmark and are stopped because the bus committee has to have a break car in front of it, this means, for example, that. the municipalities of the South do not have to deal with it. There are questions of a fair system, and justice is Christian People's Party for. I hope that the Progress Party too is.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e454	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e457	There have been many cases in the final phase, and there may still be some loose threads in the given setting. In any case, the Committee has come up with a position on local economy which clarifies only that the Right Party and the Progressive Party support the framework, but disagree with the allocation of the framework between different types of municipalities and the changes in the income system, and that the Progress Party supports the other essential element, namely the extraction from the county economy in the context of the hospital reform. As far as the last point is concerned, it seems that you see this as part of the hospital reform, but that's not really that. There are questions about how county councils will function next year in relation to the tasks they will perform in higher education, in transport and in the other areas. That's really what we're addressing today with the question of what the county councils are going to be left with. That's why I think it's strange that the Progress Party has in a way just introduced this as part of the hospital reform. That's not really that. It is a question of whether the county councils should have the opportunity to operate the services that are necessary and that we want, even if we would like to see the county council closed. I would like to stress that it might have been easier with the settlement then, because then one had started with new cards all the way, and had to address some of the problems that are now not addressed in the settlement. I'll go back a little bit to the frame. So we have supported a growth of DKK 3 to 3.5 billion in the local economy next year, and we stress that what is essential for us is that we get a strong growth in the free income. We are therefore disappointed about the withdrawal from several parties on different parts of the inclusion of earmarked schemes, which we agreed on last year. But there is one essential part relating to the income system for next year that has been very dramatic for us. Over the entire period we have now worked with improvements in the income system, we have assumed that when new weights and criteria are to be added, they should be added for several parts at the same time. If we don't get a turn one year, where the municipalities get a path in the future, where they're going to get so much income growth because of new criteria, next year we get another, because a new criterion comes in. It will be difficult to plan, and it will be difficult to maintain continuity in the provision of services. That's why there's one criterion that we've said it's essential to get in, namely the criteria for the drug/psychiatry problems and the extra pressures for the larger cities associated with this. It's just going down at the Railway Square or Torgall, or in the Nygårdspark in Bergen and such places in the other major cities in this country and seeing that there are people here who make up loads in the form of extra offers, which are then financed by the municipalities, and which are not found in relation to the criteria and distribution. This is social expenditure for the larger cities that we want priority. I mention e.g. The problem is that in the country we now have a record of overdose deaths among drug users. But this is not reflected in the distribution criteria between the municipalities. That is why the Right proposed an entry of 200 million. Kr allocated to the cities that have more than 50,000 inhabitants, relative to population, so that we had a preliminary criterion that we could use until we finally believe that the KOSTRA figures, the psychiatry reform and all the other things that are still to be investigated can give us more lasting weights and criteria. This is significant because the same municipalities are affected by changes in the housing criteria. We agree that the changes in the housing criteria are professionally correct, and that is the way to go, but it is the combination with the lack of other criteria that makes it wrong not to introduce this at the same time. In addition to these changes, the Right wants us to step up the tax rate at least next year to 48 p.m., and we want you to go beyond 50 p.m. next year, compared to what was the majority's wish last year. The right has also wanted to address the problems related to municipalities of growth and depopulation to a greater extent. In this respect, I would like to say that there is an error in the vote, where proposal No. 8 is listed as a proposal from the Centre Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. Those who heard Mr. Ivar Østberg's speeches just, where he spoke warmly for this proposal, will have discovered that the Central Party was actually supposed to be a Christian People's Party in that context, so at the vote guide later this might have to be corrected. So in that area, there's a certain degree of confusion, because those who read the proposition clearly don't want to speed up the date of counting. During the Committee's work, it has been repeatedly pointed out from the Workers' Party that it counts earlier, i.e. closer to the date than what is actually in the Proposition. My challenge to the Council of State is whether she will be able to clarify later in the debate whether it is such that the count in relation to the expenditure part is 1 January of the year before the income system, and whether it is such that it is not so far to say yes to counting at a later date also in relation to income balancing. Because that's what's in the proposition that Stortinget has been dealt with, and that's what we've had to deal with when it comes to supporting under proposal No. 8, because we think this is too late. In addition, it is important to ensure that the host municipality benefits from defending the capital expenditure it has, which is thus documented to be large – EUR 65 000–85 000, the agenda report shows that it costs to get a new citizen into the municipality. With the strong income balance we have, it's not a win situation at a later stage, because we're equalizing income so strongly that if you don't get over 110 pst. in average tax income, one is not left with the gain to defend the capital costs at an early stage. We believe that further work needs to be done on this, and we have proposed it. We believe that it is either possible to find indirect indicators on weights and criteria or to find ways to input capital expenditure directly. As I said, we are a little tired of not introducing both the school leisure and camp school grants, which were passed on to the right into the income system last year. I just have to say that the argument I hear from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is an argument that can largely lead to the inclusion of any offer to the municipalities, because you obviously have a distrust of the local politicians in relation to what they want to prioritise, and you want to put the leaders here in relation to schemes where I think it could have clearly been done well locally in each municipality. So to the seniors' bet. The right has felt that it's been hard to say now that we can put a finishing line with 6,200 new places next year, and that's what we're going to fund. We believe that it is impossible to do when the deadline is postponed until 1 October. That's why we've said that we have to come back to that number when we get the notified additional proposition for the autumn. But in the meantime, we've said, and I'm glad that we've got a majority for it, that municipalities with less than 25 pst. coverage of the care and care services provided by lucky days is to be given priority in the allocation of investment grants, and we also support a proposal promoted by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa later in the debate, which is that of the 6 200 that we know will at least be a minimum framework for the autumn, 2 000 can be promised this year, so that those with clear priority projects, by getting a yes faster do not experience cost increases associated with their implementation. So the question of hospital reform. We have soon received letters from almost all the counties. I think I have said that there may be four pieces that have not written a letter about problems related to the transfer. The problems are different. But it also shows that it is almost impossible for us to decide what criteria it is right to enter, because we have to go back to the background of how certain types of expenditure have arisen. We agree that the starting point is to be the accounts for the year 1999. But then you have to take into account special situations, and then we have to not least take into account that we can't just say that the deficits that have been accumulated in the last two years, which have been up-to-date this year, and are mainly worked up in the hospital sector, we should just leave to the county council to cover, when we know that the county council is left with a much smaller economic pot to cover this. That is why we believe it is right to go to individual negotiations based on the six criteria that have been introduced, and it has been important for us to say that there is a deficit until 1 June. We're not going to give a blank authorization that people can now run hospitals or other activity in deficit and expect the state to pay, but I think we have to take the signals when we see what's going on. In any case, in all the regional hospitals, a drastic cut in health services is now being discussed, because there is a accumulated deficit which one must try to recover as quickly as possible, because if not there will be a large decline in both secondary and commercial spending next year. That is why it is important to have negotiations on arbitration. I'm really surprised that what's going to be the consequence of the Progress Party's policy here is less of a commitment to health for the harvest, and they're going to be responsible for all the cuts that come in the county municipalities in the future. I will be allowed to address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right in the vote, as well as those that are not already included in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e490	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e495	As the representative of Solberg said, the Right and the Labour Party are in agreement on the financial framework. Well, notice, the Right has a different device than us, and it's probably no secret – as was also said in the post – that they choose to prioritise the big cities financially rather than supporting the small communities in the districts. And I point out that the Right in connection with the state budget last autumn proposed strong cuts in economic transfers to the districts, i.e. cuts in subsidies that would have weakened them. For the Workers' Party, good municipal economy is also good district policy. Everything is connected, including the fact that the Right now goes out and promises tax bills of 40 billion kroner. I want to hear where the Right should cut. We know about the sick pay scheme, but I also think that other parts of Norwegian welfare, whether it's health, hospitals, kindergartens or the like, need to know where the rest of the cuts are going to come. And it's a little strange to hear the contribution of the representative of Solberg, because it's just about additions – when they even signal that they're going to cut NOK 40 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e507	First of all, I think we need to think about what we're going to do with the income system for next year. We're going to introduce new housing criteria. These housing criteria are criteria that are not for everyone, but too many district municipalities mean getting a better and more accurate weighting of the income system. That's what we're saying, as long as the other big defect pot, that's a rush/psychiatry, is also put in and we get a coverage of the big cities' particular problems. I'm kind of surprised at the lack of learning skills in these things, because you've been visiting several of the big cities, and they've described these projects. When Aud Gaundal makes contributions to housing policy, she is concerned about doing something for the homeless, she is concerned about taking a number of measures in relation to social housing, etc., which assumes that there are large proportions of ownership and activity from the municipalities in order to do so – the same municipalities that Aud Gaundal now believes should not be taken into account with regard to the special expenditure. And those are the same criteria. That's the criteria in relation to the group of homeless people we're talking about here. Most of the homeless have a drug/psychiatry problem — what came first, nobody knows. You have to think about the kind of expenditure that this type of criteria should cover. So $40 billion in cut. Forty billion dollars in cuts comes from saying that we want to approximate our taxation to the average in Europe. We believe that this is necessary in order not to lose growth in the Norwegian economy, which we are currently doing. It's not a proposal to cut NOK 40 billion in next year's budget. So I would like to remind you that today's business life had a look earlier this week that showed that with the new guidelines for the oil fund, we have covered more than 40 billion kroner in tax reliefs, if we just use it, the Workers' Party has been going to add more money to the Norwegian economy. It's not necessarily cut. What we've done is we've put realists on where we cut, in every budget every harvest, and then I think Aud Gaundal is just going to get an order to read the Right Alternative Budget in the financial position from last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e518	I'd like to begin by commending Right and Erna Solberg for the commitment they showed to secure a proposal that could better take care of the county councils' needs for a clean statement after the hospital reform. Today, there is an alternative to the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which would take better care of the different history of the municipalities and the different conditions underlying the per capita economy. date. A broad minority, all parties except the Labour Party and the Advance Party, are behind six criteria as the basis for negotiations with each county. So right now, when they secure the Labour Party's arrangement for the municipalities, says that what matters to them is increased in free income. In the proposition there is a proposal of between $1.50 and $1.75 billion in free income. A closer look at the freedom situation confirms to the Committee that SEK 1 billion is bound as a result of demographic changes. We all know that the municipalities have to take ownership of the old age plan, as well as their own props in relation to kindergarten prices. Is Right really happy with the free income as it is produced when it is actually bound?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e525	However, I am now considering the claim that this money is free, because that means that you can choose how and on what types of measures you want to spend the money, and what you want to prioritise in the municipality. I believe that there is an efficiency potential in the municipalities to get more out of the money that you have, if you make sure that you don't control the municipalities so much. And then you get something left. Then we have to remember that there is one fundamental difference between the central party and the right in this context. It's going to be totally unrealistic to bring about a 4 billion kr increase in free income when we know that the two outlays made by central party councils, for the years 1998 and 1999, barely meant growth in free income at all. It wasn't until last year that there was some special increase in free income. The center party should eventually not play on this, because their credibility is really equal to zero. I see this as a recognition that they do not look at any government offices until the fall. And I think that's the difference between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this context. The Christian People's Party knows that they may have to fulfill some of these promises. The center party has already given up its belief in it. You would never be able to do this in position – never. It'll be a little bit 'thinking of a number'. So to what's the important, fundamental difference between us. It is that we are more concerned with providing lower costs, both for the public sector and for the private sector in Norway, through lower taxes and taxes that make it more affordable. Then more has been done for the free income you received. Just think of a cost like the increase in the electricity charge. 34 pst. the current increase in the electricity price is linked to the electricity charge increase in the new year. Municipalities are among the major consumers – in schools, in hospitals, in relation to everything that happens. The kind of thing is just as important as the income transfers that Magnhild Meltweid Kleppa is willing to give. The services must be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e534	Unrealistically, the representative of Solberg said that he would give NOK 3-4 billion more to the local government sector. This is money for, among other things, something that was going to be one of the right heart things, namely school. Yesterday it was not unrealistic. Yesterday we dealt with the defense. Then the Right had several billion that they were willing to spend the next four years. The last day we discussed an SV proposal to spend NOK 10 billion over a four-year period, for example. can give a PC to all the kids in school — a modern school, which Norway needs, and which will be the most forward-looking initiative we could give. It won't be on the right. It's hard to understand that the Right Party is a school party. In this case, the Right Priorities differ and believe it is unrealistic to create a modern school that is good and forward-looking, while they choose to spend the money on the Defense. Another thing that the Right claims they're busy with is less tax. But who is going to get less tax? A survey by the Statistical Centre shows that chronically ill and disabled people pay on average NOK 24 000 per year in criminal taxes in proportion because they are ill. Why is it that the right does not agree with the SV's proposal to step down the excesses, so that we avoid penalising disease, disability and needs? Why is it more important to give tax relief to people with over half a billion dollars in income? It is this local economy that the municipalities now have such a tight framework that they have to exploit every income opportunity they have. They have to make kindergarten more expensive. They have to take as high a proportion as they can. They have to make the school leisure system expensive. They have to put down cultural offerings that would make the communities good to live in. So the question is, why don't these right contexts look?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e543	It is a fact that our increase in the defence budget is less than the proposed increase in the municipal economy proposed by the representative Karin Andersen in relation to our approach. There are some basic things that are important to us in relation to the security of our society, and that is that the defence must be modern and deterrent. I would like to say that I think it is strange that, as in recent years, SV has committed much more to using forces in international operations, and – albeit with internal turbulence – has voted in favour of the bombing in Kosovo and other things, not understanding that part of being sure of Norwegian team participation is ensuring high quality and good training. It's kind of not related. One would like to take part in clearing up important humanitarian issues in the world, but one is not willing to ensure that it can be done properly for Norwegian personnel. So the question of tax relief. I think tax relief is important. I think it is important to build the welfare base for Norway further in the years to come. That's one of the reasons why we have some tax breaks for businesses, and that we've said that we want our tax levels down to the average level in Europe. This will mean that Norway will become a more attractive country of localisation. That means that we have a private, competitive sector that can compete and that gives us jobs and welfare gains in the years to come. We are in a trap at the moment, with low growth linked to a combination of poor framework conditions and labour shortages. Both of these things are addressed in our general policy. This is important for future development. Then we think it is important to give priority to growth measures in our system, among other things. by investing more in school. We give priority to school within the given budget frameworks that we have, at the expense of a number of other things, for which we are criticized – among other things. at the expense of having the world's best health insurance scheme. That's why we thought it was okay to get the world's second best health pay scheme instead, and then focus on growth through a good education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e554	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e557	The local government sector shall concentrate all its activities around closely defined primary tasks. In our opinion, it is particularly important that the state ensure a good service provision within basic services such as health care, care for the elderly and schooling, and that municipalities are given freedom to develop locally adapted services beyond this. Municipal self-government must be strengthened. However, citizens must also be guaranteed well-being, such as health, care and education, without regard for each of them, and without regard for the local economy and priorities. The best way to do this is to ensure that these services are fully priced by the country. By releasing the municipalities from the financial responsibility for these basic services, municipalities will have sufficient freedom to manage their other income and expenditure. We want a new system where everyone gets the same basic privileges. Different municipal priorities will therefore no longer be able to weaken basic services towards the people. By introducing target management, price financing, rationalisation and efficiency, savings can be made without reducing supply rather than increasing it, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Of course, this is particularly important with the quality of service provision. The main objective of the party for progress is to increase the individual’s freedom of action. Security and joy of life are a means of individual feeling that one has an impact on one’s own life. Therefore, as its goal, the Progress Party has a society where most decisions are taken directly by the inhabitants themselves. Municipalities should be living communities where people know their homes and can influence their everyday lives. Future will not be attached, it will be created. The municipal sector as a whole seized large resources, and much could be saved by the outsourcing of municipal services. It's sad that the Labour Party's national meeting left that ball dead. Could this be one of the causes of the decline? My answer is a very clear yes. The connection between the Government and the trade unions is too strong. There is no doubt that it is the Municipal Association in particular and the LO in general that won this fight at the national meeting of the Labour Party. Policy should have been spared for such coexistence as that between the Labour Party and the LO. Municipal governance shall be a service body with primary tasks to assist the inhabitants. Politicians and bureaucrats should therefore not place unnecessary obstacles and bans on individuals, businesses, teams and organisations. The Progress Party believes that all people should have the legal right to hospital, care, education and economic social assistance, regardless of every cage in the country. The production of these services may also be done by someone other than the public. The State finances and maintains control. The step-by-step party wants the residents to have the freedom to choose the hospital, the care services and the school that best suits them. The freedom of choice shall be ensured by ensuring and covering expenditure by the public and the State. As it is about securing individual freedom and security, regardless of the country of a cage, it is natural that the state assumes responsibility for this and not the municipalities. The municipal sector has high savings potential. If a competitive municipal service, not only the simple technical but also the heavy ones in health and care, is particularly significant in terms of savings potential. This will also lead to a better municipal economy. I find that despite the fact that one at several times has found that the hall of municipal property, such as the axes in power companies, and competitive outsourcing is better for the municipal economy, there are many municipalities that have not tried this, most based on political principle. If local politicians change their attitude to the principle, revenue may increase and expenditure may be reduced — monthly. I would therefore argue that the municipalities themselves have part of the debt for their own financial situation. However, I agree with those who claim that Stortinget imposes on the municipalities the one reform after the other, where money does not follow. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are opposed to putting the elderly into the framework. Then we know the result: money will no longer follow the reform. Only in words and thoughts, and not in deeds! We in the Progress Party take a positive view that municipalities voluntarily merge, and that the idea is set in motion. But we mean to expand the arrangement that the base bill can be given for ten years, is not the way to go. A similar base for all municipalities seems to be a lock against merging, because a merge leads to a base write-up of only one after a time, instead of two. A combination that in itself can be cost-saving and sensible can be stopped as a result of this scheme. Let me give you an example: three municipalities could become one, and they'd get a councillor instead of three, a spokesperson instead of three, one municipal councillor instead of three, and so on. The natural thing is to dissociate the basic idea, so that the municipalities themselves make a choice if they do not merge, will have to bear the costs, and so that the municipalities that make a merger choice will have the benefits of doing so. Of course, savings should be included in the overall framework for transfers to municipalities. The scan mail must be gradually removed and not increased. Local authorities must be given greater financial responsibility by reducing the state financial transfer between municipalities and by basing it on the objective criteria of Rattsø I and II in relation to the population. It is necessary to create a system that promotes municipalities that address the challenges themselves and that introduces measures that increase the income base. It is not fair for such municipalities to be punished, as the system is today. Therefore, it is wrong for the State to have company tax. It's a shame the majority don't realize it. We in the Progress Party believe that earmarks must be reduced and removed in the long term. This applies only to ear-marked appeals of a general nature and to those put in place to influence the priorities of different tasks. Eyemarked contributions which are, in practice, price financing for services are not of the type of support that needs to be reduced or removed, since this is earmarking which has an effect that promotes efficiency, as stated above. Rattsø selection. As long as the majority do not wish to change the municipal structure of the Progress Party, the party will look at the municipal economy according to today's system. Therefore, until the management of the state budget in the autumn, we will consider increasing the framework so that children and the elderly in particular are not affected by a misguided policy. We now see more examples of municipalities no longer mastering the tasks they are charged with, because too little resources follow the reforms we adopt here in the house. This affects children and the elderly. This will not be enabled for the Progress Party. We are therefore willing to participate within today's system, even if we believe this is a wrong way to do it. We did the same to the hospital service, before we received unit price financing and state takeover of the hospital. I'm glad that a system is now in place for those municipalities that have a lot of pressure as a result of heavy users being moved from institutions to their own dwellings. Many municipalities have a particular great responsibility for the disabled with a very great need for help. Therefore, there is an exceptional need for those municipalities that have users with a need for help above a certain level. This will ensure that these disabled people are given equal offers throughout the country, without regard to where they live. But it is actually only the Progress Party and SV's proposal that fully cover this. The central party's proposal is so good that if we fall, we in the Progress Party will go for it. So a little bit for the hospital reform: I am happy and actually also proud of the agreement Worker Party and Progress Party. In the end, we've had an impact on one of our most important issues, the state takeover of the special services, even though it's not exactly the way we wanted it and we want it. But it's a step in the right direction. To the discussion about compensation, I would say that we are willing to review the data, if it turns out that there are things today that we do not see and know, that would have unexpected consequences. We've, after all, invested a lot of money. No one else has. We also have notice in the form of a note that we need to show transparency in the forthcoming negotiations. It's a little strange that Right claims we're getting less health from the county next year. Yes, then the question must be: what kind of mainilboden should the county undertake for the next year, when the state takes over the specialist services? It's incredible to me. The minority is just talking about sentinel. The goal is understood: to stop the reform and go back with your back turned into the future. At least patients don't light up. So to the care of the elderly. The pristine path, the municipalities' property path, the state does nothing. Our proposal is to increase the bet by NOK 300000. It will also improve the municipal economy in the coming years. Finally, I would like to mention the suggestions on which the Progress Party is or has one, which is not already busy and which are in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e603	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e609	Let me again state that I am pleased with the support given to the Workers' Party to implement the Government's financial arrangements for 2002 and for the implementation of the financial settlement by state acquisition of the specialist health service. But then the representative, Solholm, says that the policy should be saved for such cohabitation as between the Workers' Party and the LO. It's sad in a lot of ways, because it's just the partnership and the good relationship between the trade union movement and the Workers' Party that has contributed to the fact that it's one of the finest and perhaps the most well-functioning welfare societies we have in this country. In comparison, trends have been observed in countries where communication between trade unions and authorities has been totally absent. It's enough to point out what happened in the 1990s through the income policy cooperation between authorities and trade unions, which has been of great value to what kind of society we've been given. But that was the side of the matter. Again, I am pleased that the Progress Party supports the Labour Party's framework proposal for next year. However, the basis for the Advance Party to support the Workers' Party is that it is the Workers' Party that provides the money to enable the municipalities to secure income for the next year. Assuming that in many ways is the vision of the Progress Party, to carry out tax relief in several tens of billions of dollars, one might wonder if the Progress Party would continue to provide the municipalities with the revenue to which they refer, and at the same time cut the income base. It can't just be the aid budget you cut in, because it only has 10 billion kroner. There's got to be something more you cut into.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e618	I understand that the representative Eriksen has a little hurt to admit that the time has passed between the working party, the trade union and LO in general. It's one of the reasons why we can't cope with the desirable public sector transformation, which 'all' realizes — I actually believe a number in the Workers' Party's Group realizes it. The point is that at the national meeting in the Workers' Party, the Municipal Association and LO were the strongest, and of course, there was also a drink of well-paid state spokesmen and state politicians. So I get it. But the development has gone by, and the truth is that the first Tony Blair – who is supposed to be party-mate of the representative Eriksen – did when he came to power, was actually cutting the ties to the union, because he realized that this was no longer modern, it prevented a development that was desirable and actually for the better – also for those who are trade unionists. So a little bit to this with big tax credits. Yes, let it be said: we have said that the state should take over the financial responsibility for health, care and growth. And we guarantee that. At the same time, we will provide considerable tax relief. So we do that too, but not necessarily by cutting. We can use – and we say that quite honestly and openly – more of the returns on the oil fund. We're willing to use more of the excess. This year, it'll probably be 250 billion. We're willing to spend a few billion more to get a policy that makes everyday life better for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e625	The representative, Lodve Solholm, expressed the view that the Progress Party would have similar services ‘independent of every cage in the country’. Some of this is precisely the purpose of grants such as the North Norway grant and the regional grant. The progress party has moderated. Although this was not discussed, they have written about these things in the vote; they are now going to wind up the North Norway grant and the regional grant over four years, and not brutally over one year, as before. The argument is that objective criteria must be taken into account. In the debate on the regional and regional notification, the Progress Party was involved in the flight prices and charges and pointed out how expensive it was to travel between Oslo and Tromsø. I then allowed myself to point out what Nordlys wrote on June 7th, that over the last ten years we had had 75 pst. increase in flight prices. Only 10 pst. This was related to charges. The rest were the competition and the market that provided. Does not the Progress Party see that underfunded reforms, to which they will contribute, and objective criteria must also apply to the northern part of the country? These are actually objective criteria to be applied if you want, among other things. balancing distance costs. Does not the Progress Party see that these are the criteria that are essential?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e632	I would think that when the North Norway bill and the regional bill were created, it was in order for one to cover some of the expenses that some municipalities have because of geography and others, in connection with some of the things we want them to deal with – health, care, education, etc. But the point is that we have no guarantee of what the money is used for. What we in the Progress Party propose, and I think is the right way to go, is that the state assumes the financial responsibility for all health and care, growth, education and school. There is no longer any basis for giving special incentives to the different parts of the country in this country. One can, of course, create, as we also mention in our program, graduated scaffolds because of various geographical and other conditions, on a general basis, so that you can keep up the many small, efficient and good hospitals and carry on with an effective and good school with a lot of outboard balls because of distances and travel distances for elephants, and the same applies to continuing schools. So it's possible – but then it's ear-marked. Rattsø says that unit price financing is the only form of ear marking that results in efficiency and rationalisation. Then we have the guarantee that everyone in this country is guaranteed a supply of health, care and education, regardless of each country a cage, regardless of the municipal economy and its priorities. That must be the most important thing. What is the goal of the Progress Party is that we should have a level playing field in these basic services for all those who live in Norway, so that everyone can participate in the welfare creation that we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e641	I think the representative Lodve Solholm misunderstood what I said in my speech about the consequences of the Progress Party being a majority with the Workers' Party in terms of the leadership of the expansion of the county's economy. There are no questions about how this will affect the health service next year. Next year, this mainly affects secondary schools, transport and the remaining tasks in county municipalities. But for the current year it is going to hit the health supply, because the only county councils now don't know is how to deal with a large accumulated deficit, also accumulated this year. What they're going to do is to save in the health sector, because it's between 56 and 60 pst. of the real economy of the counties. And to minimize the cuts to next year at high school and transportation, they are now cutting off the health supply. We addressed this in the revised national budget with an additional allocation to regional hospitals of 250 million. kr. This was also done by the Progress Party, but the point is that when they are with the Workers' Party on this settlement – and 200 million. kr is rather small in relation to all the judgements that the Progress Party has flagged to take into account in these matters – so you get a round of cuts on important health services. It is a paradox that it is the Progress Party that contributes to it, and I believe that Lodve Solholm should admit that it is in stark contrast to the fact that billions of appropriations have been run around every year by the Progress Party – they have been lying above all of us – to health, to say that they are the most concerned with health. The reality is that when the Progress Party enters into a compromise with the Workers' Party on this extension, they contribute to strong savings. In my home country, it's about cutting 50 million kroner in Haukeland hospitals, and in a number of other hospitals, it has to be cut down as a direct consequence of saving that deficit now, because you can't live with the fact that you're going to shut down large parts of the high school offerings next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e650	If we take next year, let me first say that we have asked for the state in the forthcoming negotiations to show itself liberal when this is the case. We have also said in our remarks that if there were to be any misappropriation that we do not know about today, and that gives untimely consequences, we are willing to look at it again. I understand that Right is hurt because they didn't get involved in this reform and got a hand on the board. I get it. The fact that they are constantly trying to counter a reform for which the Right Indebtedness is all about, I find it more strange than that they are going to attack us because we are implementing an agreement 'two the bitter end', even though in some areas we would have liked to see that the reform had got slightly different angles than it has. The thing is that the Right should be involved in this, it probably wouldn't have been any reform at all – that's the way it is. So to the revised national budget. We have this in our proposal for a revised national budget, so I would like to ask the representative Erna Solberg to perhaps read the position of the revised national budget better. We have made an exact promise of money to cover the health sector in 2001, which is part of our proposal for a revised national budget. If you have not discovered this, please read the configuration again for the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e659	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e662	Today, when the Right Party and the Progress Party look to the Government for its proposals for the financial framework of the municipalities next year, it will join in a long series of issues that put the Prime Minister's commitment to highlight the resistance to these parties in a strange light. The center part cannot support an arrangement where we know that the result will be a reduction in the supply we want to see strengthened. We suggest NOK 4 billion in free income in addition to the government's proposal and will also have a debt cancellation corresponding to NOK 12 billion, which will amount to an additional DKK 1.5 billion for operating per. years in the years ahead. The central party initiated a consultation arrangement between the central federation of municipalities and the government. We are content that the Workers' Party established the scheme. We want to develop it for negotiations between the government and the municipalities. We have noticed with concern that the Government does not follow up the KS's registration needs for funds. KS shows that there is no match between tasks and means; they refer to the need for extra resources for new tasks; they ask for a plan for creating the financial imbalance that is now in many municipalities. The center party thinks all of these conditions are right. We record that the everyday life outside the municipalities is not as simple as the municipal minister wants it to be. We believe that KS is right when they claim that the increase in the free incomes provided by the Government is bound, as stated in the committee: one billion resulting from demographic changes and the rest of the additional costs of the fixed medical system, properties to follow up the old age plan and step up the municipal contribution to the kindergartens. The Council of State has also confirmed the same in reply to the committee at a later date. This situation is further underlined by individual municipalities who have sent letters to the Committee on their experiences in the field. Now, in the spring, the Labour Party has promised better schools, cheaper kindergartens and cheaper schooling arrangements. There will be no more children and young people in 2002 with the Government's plans, if the municipalities are to fulfil their other tasks. If the Labour Party does not want to listen to the Centre Party in this matter, it might be hoped that they would listen to something more of their own – for example, Tromsø’s spokesman, Herman Kristoffersen, who says that the municipalities have to do the job, it is those who have to pay, it is those who are going to try to fulfill the promises of accumulation and government. Then, in fact, everyday life is such that, unfortunately, municipalities have to spend too much of their funds on interest and deductions next year because, as it says in the proposition, the reform of the elderly and the reform of the foundations are underfunded. Let me briefly comment on some single elements. First of all, the Central Party believes that it is unacceptable for the Government to have quotas with the municipalities before it has an overview of the municipalities' plans. It's embarrassing that so far in this venture we're operating with so much insecurity and frustration in an area where it's now necessary to keep progress in order to ensure better care. We want to take a final position on the phasing out of the old age plan and the criteria in this context when a final overview of the municipalities’ plans is available. We do not fully see the need for the deadline that is now postponed, but we understand that we will still have the opportunity to get the overview that is needed in the 2002 budget. The central part of the selection is in the option for proposal No. 36, a proposal involving an undertaking authorisation of 2000 units in addition to the 5,800 which is already available this year. There is not at that time a proposal for an extension of the elderly plan, but an advance on the 6200 for which the government has already announced the opening. We are very pleased that the proposal is going to have multiples today. According to 2,000 new units, several of the municipalities that are today ready for their plans and which have adjusted them along the way in consultation with the county council and the House Bank have the possibility to start. For the other resource-required users: such a scheme is today, it is an area where a municipality overnight can experience a lot of extra costs. There have been systematic improvements in this scheme over several years. We have, however, come to the conclusion that we do not exclude a serious situation for the municipalities in a so-called top finance. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party propose 80 p.m. State coverage of costs in excess of NOK 600 000 per year. client. The Party of Progress and SV shall accept that the proposal on 100 pst. We disagree with that, but we think it's right for the municipalities to make use of a certain amount of property in addition to NOK 600 000. We don't get multiples, it prevents Right and Workers' Party. The government must, however, provide a top-level financing with a slightly larger feature, proposed by the Right. This scheme should be ready from 2003. The Centre Party shall support that proposal in a subsidiary manner. Thirdly, loss compensation: when the Rattsø Committee set its sights on changes in the income system was presented in 1996, the regional policy storm fell. The internal opposition in the Labour Party was so strong that an extraordinary national meeting was requested. In order to calm down and dampen the worst impacts, the proposal to introduce a compensation scheme through exceptional judgement was to be stepped up while gradually introducing changes in the income system. 2001 is the last year of the escalation. The Rattsø compensation means a redistribution of DKK 1.5 billion to $2 billion per. years. The government has proposed and is supported by the Progress Party and the Right, a gradual winding-up of the loss compensation scheme. This will have dramatic consequences for many district municipalities. Tana loses 8.5 million. NOK, Karlsøy SEK 8.7 million. kr, Kläbu 4,1 mill. SEK, Sunndal 9.5 million. kr, Luster 6.2 mill. NOK – and I can continue with Hjelmeland SEK 8.2 million. kr, Engerdal SEK 3.9 million. kr etc., etc. There are also other changes to the income system, so that the total changes are slightly different, and the exclusions for some municipalities are slightly less. For others, they're getting even bigger. In order to patch on the largest impact, the Government has proposed to compensate for losses over DKK 40 per year. population in 2002. But there is no guarantee of future compensation. On the contrary, the Government says that the next year will come back with a closer assessment of the long-term compensation. Municipalities depend entirely on long-termity and foresight in their planning work. The municipalities that are now losing the loss compensation and will be given the goodwill of the Government and the Stortinge for each budget year will find themselves in a completely hopeless situation. For district municipalities that are already threatened with relocation, the insecurity created by the removal of the loss compensation can be the relationship that makes people move instead of bet on a future in their own municipality. Fourthly, the agricultural office: I refer to Ivar Østberg’s posts. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are united in opposing the change proposed by the Government, which means that there are several district councils that are obliged to assess whether they should have a guidance service for agriculture, where the same agriculture is the basic pillar of the municipality in question. For the fifth major urban supplement: the centre part is part of a proposal to introduce an own major urban supplement. We see that it can be difficult with the criteria of intoxication and social conditions, but we think that the big cities should be compensated more than today. For the sixth debt situation: I get it back in a later post, because I also have to say something at the end about the statement with the county councils about the specialist services. It is alarming that the Workers' Party is leaning towards the Progress Party. The Labour Party could have had a broad majority in the Stortinget, which negotiated with the individual county council, in the case of county councils following the hospital reform. The selected Progress Party, and the result, unfortunately, will be new cuts in traffic and in further education. Let me finally deal with the proposals that the Central Party either proposes on its own or is a co-sponsor and that have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e704	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e709	The head of the centre party, Odd Roger Enoksen, has today, in P2, characterised the Workers' Party's financial arrangement for 2002 as a bluff. In spring 1998, the Bondevik government posted a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of only 1–1 1⁄4 pst. The working party then proposed a strengthening of the municipal economy of approximately NOK 1 billion in addition. We were left standing alone to go in for this increase. This year's scheme would have given an increase in revenue of just over DKK 1.2 billion in the form of increased revenue and reduced costs in relation to the centre, the Right and the Advance Party jointly managed to achieve. Nor in the spring of 1999 did the Bondevik government allow for greater growth than on about 1 1⁄4 pst. The centre was far from its election promises for more money to the municipalities. The Labour Party announced at the time of the state budget 2000 that we would propose an increase in the income of the municipal sector in addition to the Bondevik government's proposals. This was followed up in the autumn of 1999, where we had an impact on the strengthening of the municipal economy of about DKK 1 billion compared to the Bondevik government's proposal. In other words, we were able to find money for the municipalities that the Bondevik government had not prioritised in its budget. In the municipal economic proposition in May 2000, the Labour Party government posted a real growth in the total income of municipalities in the order of approximately DKK 4 billion. In other words, the increase of the Workers' Party was greater than the Bondevik government had ever proposed. We continued to do this in the 2001 state budget, where the real growth in total revenue was DKK 4 billion, and we compensated for other expenditure in the order of DKK 5 billion. Then my question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa is: why are our proposals to characterize as bluff, when we have been proven to have followed promises with concrete appropriations, while the centre party only has money when they are in opposition? Or is it the way Solberg's representative expressed it, that the Central Party no longer sees itself in the government offices and can therefore act the way they do right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e722	I'm a little surprised by the Workers' Party's municipal political spokesman. Is it so easy to say that there is consistency between the local authorities' tasks and the resources at their disposal, that it is just to add to a certain percentage without taking into account that the municipalities have actually done a good deal of new tasks year after year? To his historical review: I think with both joy and pain back to the fight that was waged before the 1997 budget, where it was the Center Party that went in the breeze – not for $1 billion or $1⁄2 billion; we actually got the Labour Party at $5 billion more for the municipal sector. We now think that what is important in relation to the situation is to take it seriously, to take seriously that it is in the municipalities that there is a need for equivalent living conditions. That's where they're going to go, with extra features for different activities related to kids, and the kids who come from the most difficult families don't have the possibility to be involved. It's where they cut – in support contact arrangements and in addition to the music ball, and 160 alley balls are in danger of being shut down. One of the signs here is that the growth has been like this and so on, but the main problem is that there is no match between tasks and means. In fact, there's a debt situation where municipalities have to pay NOK 52 billion, in addition to the tasks they've already received. That's the background of the Center Party's proposal. We'll look forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e734	The central party invites in its contribution to the Keyword objectivity, and refers to the Rattsø, which almost became a shell word from the day he put his name to an investigation. We have had a phase-in of the income system for five years, and everyone has shown that the loss compensation should be a transitional arrangement. Now we're talking about loss compensation, and the effort to achieve objectivity has been absent from the Center Party as well. There have been protests for the protest, many of us seem, and in these days the Senter Party is leading in actions outside this house, where the majority in this room is almost attempted to be less talented – excuse me, I hope it is parliamentary enough – partly from the documents of this committee, and not least from the Innst. S. No 300, which the debate on is a couple of days old. Could it not clothe us all that we went a little further into the bird box – it would clothe the spring suit for us all – and participated in a due diligence on objectivity, rather than doubting compensation schemes for which a logical basis has not been established? The economic viability of the centre party has been partly affected in the past. It has been pointed out earlier today that the centre batch completely changes when they come in opposition. In an earlier debate, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said that the roads could be fixed if you supported the Center Party. Now it's a majority billion to the municipalities – all of a sudden they're going to get more. Where did the money go to the municipalities and roads when the Central Party had the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e743	The President assumes that the term 'less gifted' is hardly parliamentary. I guess we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e746	If it is that Rattsø has been a scoring word, I will ask that completely different from the Center Party be loaded for it, and also take responsibility for it having been so. To the expression "less gift": I allowed myself to comment on it, because I do not want to say that I, cork in posts or in settings, have contributed to the impression that someone here in the hall is not, at all, to what I understood here, that it is perceived as an expression that has been used on representatives from the Right. I think I'd rather say the opposite. Right has for a long time been very conscious of its management of the local economy. They stood ready and happy The Labour Party as soon as the Labour Party made suggestions to gradually remove the loss compensation. Of course, it's based on an entirely conscious strategy from the Right side. They want another municipal structure. They have no need or vision to take care of the smaller districts. A number of other suggestions from the Right are requested in different settings this spring. Then the representative Hoddevik asked where the Center Party was with regard to the road and the municipal sector. Of course, he has had opportunities, since now in the revised budget, to both participate and strengthen the municipalities with nearly 300 million. kr and be on a larger bet on the road. To objectivity: we distance ourselves from looking away from geography and just counting heads when we're looking at the local economy. I actually assume that Hoddevik, who is himself from a district municipality, had vision for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e757	The public sector has grown record in recent years. We have become a land of laws. We have a law and regulation jungle without a parallel. The country is struggling with bans, restrictions, injunctions, red tape, sky-high taxes and taxes and a lot of other things. Simplification, modernisation and renewal are essential elements of today's debate. With regard to the Central Party, I remember – it was probably in the last period – that from that edge it was taken up to clean up bureaucracy and legislation in this country. That was commendable. But what has the Center Party actually done in this context? What the Center Party is doing today, and as they always do, is standing here demanding more money, more money and more money – for the districts and for agriculture. Then I would like to challenge the Centre Party: Should they not be much more concerned with what is the main intention of what we are going to discuss today, simplification, modernisation and renewal, and see if they can contribute anything to the debate and not just one-sided talk about more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e766	There were questions about what the Centre Party has done when it comes to renewal and modernisation. I argued that Andersen’s representative had the basis that was laid when we were in government, and that many departments were involved under the heading ‘Simplify Norway’. It was actually over 100 projects, and the Labour Party shows that they follow up a lot of them. Then we recently had a case here in the Chamber about a review of the Law on Planning and Building with a view to simplification. The center party was in on it. Then we went towards a matter that more than anything else blaming the simplification of our legal and regulatory framework, that is, the EEA Agreement. It is, of course, the person who has to take the primary responsibility for the approximation of legislation and regulations to the opposite end and make the simplification work even more difficult. So to our proposals for more funding for the municipal sector. That's right. We distance ourselves from the Progress Party's slogan on multiple cuts, multiple cuts, multiple cuts – and the self-restraint that lies in the Progress Party's setup, lower taxes, more public services, part-price financing for all those who need one service or another. We want to support a real match between tasks and means in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e775	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e778	Yesterday the Stortinget and the gallery were full of funky men with strips and stars that pushed the Stortinget. Then the treasury was about "pipe" open, and no one has any idea what the bill is for what was adopted yesterday. If it had been full in the gallery today of children who were expected to look forward to starting school for the autumn, parents who needed kindergarten or who could not afford the kindergarten they were given, older people who need care and care – would it make the same impression? I don't think so. The large number selects balls and powdered over board and chalk. Municipal economy is about being able to have a modern welfare state that keeps it up to the law – a free, forward-looking school that is so diverse that everyone will have their children there, care and care when you need it, and such as a desire it, a babysitting place that is safe and affordable, and a collective offer that makes a person free to buy a car if you want to come somewhere. So people want better and more services, not less and more expensive. However, the gap between the private wealth of the majority and the standard and the quality of public supply is too large, and it gets bigger for every day that goes. It's about to break down the confidence of politicians, who laws and laws and don't deliver. SV cannot accept that old people lie without help and supervision, or that the children at school should be able to handle 43 kroner each to get out of the classroom and experience what they need. They need to experience a business life, they need to experience culture, they need to experience nature and maybe even an old age home. We're getting richer in this country, but not all of us. The richest are getting richer, and the poorest are getting poorer. This community proposition doesn't do anything to fix it. SV wants to bet on what's forward-looking, and we can afford it now. Therefore, SV will spend SEK 4 billion more on the municipal sector in the next few years. Today, it has been said that policy should have been saved for some consensual relationships. Yes, I have long believed and hoped that the close interaction we have seen between the Workers' Party and the right parties has been a one-night stand, but it does not look like that. It looks like this is going to be a fixed follow-up and I guess so. I think most people should have been saved for that. There are poor children in Norway, and if we are to correct it, the municipal economy is important. It is about having a decent level of social assistance, so that poor children do not get excluded from the other child. But it is also about having a school that is so rich and diverse that children who come from poor families get a good offer there. Now it's like a lot of people can't be involved in all of the school's activities. Stange municipality in Hedmark – which I know very well – made a decision yesterday that they should now say no to all the peculiarities in school. It's positive, but the result is that students don't go on excursions or school trips. The parents have supported this decision in Stange because they do not want the children to be different. But they see that if we keep going in this direction, the school gets too bad, and too bad for everyone. 207 million. It costs me to get rid of this. I don't think we can afford that either. SV is also concerned that the elderly plan we have received, and which has been widely agreed on, is underfunded. There will be many nice dwellings, but there will be too little decent care inside the dwellings. Therefore, SV believes that a price compensation must be provided for both investments and operating grants. We want to wait to include the operating grant until the reform is implemented, so that municipalities will receive compensation for the increase in activity that comes after 2002. And who is going to do the jobs in the care sector? Two days ago, we discussed whether we should have an action plan to recruit help nurses and nurses, so that they could manage to be in the jobs. Now it's like many of these jobs produce patients, because it's so heavy and weary. Many stop because wages and working conditions are too poor. It's also about the local economy. Should it be that in the future, KS will be able to carry out wage settlements that make them manage to recruit and keep people, there must be something more room than it is today, because the cold's time is over. We don't get people to stay in these jobs, which we need, if we don't have proper employment. Then to the settlement of the hospitals. Bla, blah, said the representative Eriksen of the Workers' Party about a proposal to compensate the county municipalities both for the property settlement and for the extraction of operations and possibly the coverage of the deficit in 2001. It is one of the most disrespectful things I have heard has been said from the Parliament's pulpit to county councils and its own party colleagues, as best they can, striving and trying to get both hospital services and a bet in high school. What happens now is a state robbery. When the State takes over the hospitals, they do not only take over buildings and properties at a sub-price, they demand that the county councils be included and pay parts of the state operation for several years to come. The fact that the Advance Party is involved in this is not so strange, but that the Workers' Party is involved is difficult to understand. This is going to go beyond high school, culture and public transport in all states. In Hedmark they had the county meeting yesterday. There they say that if they're going to be able to cover the deficit only for this year, it will require, for example. That you put down the entire adult psychiatry, or that you shut down and put the high schools in Tynset, Koppang, Trysil and Elverum. Everybody realizes that this is all the other way around. So that's not the point. But the result of this settlement is going to be that schools are laid down, classes are laid down, fewer students get to take the education they want, many more have to leave home to go to high school, and many have to choose an education that they don't want. We know that means a lot to the desire to learn more, and how to do it. SV has also been very concerned about the excess of the excess. There is a tax on disease that SV is strongly opposed to. A survey of health and social services expenditure, Notes 2000/45, from the Statistical Centre shows that chronically ill people pay on average NOK 24 000 in such a criminal tax because they are ill. That's a situation we can't keep living with. There shall be no charge and tax on a disability or chronic illness. It also appears that it is entirely wrong to impose such large taxes or self-payments on kindergartens and school leisure schemes. One of the things that would have been most important for families with children in Norway was that kindergarten prices had been low. It's not like that now, and it's not like that with the government's plans. Whatever they say, there won't be much cheaper kindergartens because the municipalities lack so much money that they have to pay those bills first. For the fourth year in a row, SV has a proposal for a state top funding for particularly resource-intensive users. For the last two years, we have been promoting the proposal together with the Progress Party. I haven't been in a single municipality in the last four years that hasn't mentioned that this is one of the major problems, and that beats my legs away under the municipal economy. Lillesand e.g. is a municipality with a very good offer for disabled children. It's so good that families move there, and that gives them a big economic problem, which they can't solve. As it is now, this money is in the discretionary pot, and there is nothing that is so unsuitable for discretion as the offer, help and care of highly disabled people. It shall not vary from year to year. It requires the municipalities to know what they have to travel with, so that they can employ as well qualified people as they need to do these jobs, and that's not easy. So a proposal like this means after the government's calculations, $600 million. extra NOK 600 million for the municipal sector. NOK is very much money. Therefore, this proposal is so important to correct the financial imbalances in very many municipalities. Then I would say a little about the public transport and the subsidies to the county municipalities. I don't have time for that, but I will take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e825	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e830	The representative, Andersen, started talking about the Workers' Party and fixed relationships. The reaction is understandable, because SV has ratios both a little bit here and a little bit there, and that's probably the opposite of fixed ratios. I was about to say something in this regard, but I am a little uncertain about whether it is a parliamentary expression and should therefore not use it, but I hope for SV's sake that they have taken the necessary measures. SV pursues a policy where the recipe is more money for everything, except for road and defence purposes. SV doesn't have to think about the whole of economic policy; it's the other thing that needs to take care of. On that basis, I have two questions. Is SV at all thinking about the consequences of its policy, e.g.: increase in interest rates, especially for young start-ups, or is the SV proposing to ensure that there are others who have to take full responsibility for economic policy? Question 2: Is there any limit to SV in how much money you can spend without having bad consequences, and where the weakest groups are hit hardest?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e841	All the four budgets submitted by SV during this period, including the revised budgets, have been in balance. We've spent a little bit more money than the other games. We've redeployed within the budget, and we've taken in something more, especially on increased capital taxation. The budgets that have been adopted, on which the Labour Party has been involved for several years, have been such that when we have settled the budget for Christmas, many billions of dollars have been spent than the SV suggested, without any dramatic events. So what Johansen is trying to make as a sort of scare image of what could happen if we were to provide a better school and a proper care for the elderly, has no root at all in reality, but is just thinking about trying to tell that doing these things properly, is not going well. Yes, SV has considered the consequences of its policy, and not least what values we set the highest. So we don't think it's particularly serious if a party promises cheaper kindergartens, and then let's not fulfill the promise. We don't think it's serious if you say the school should be free, and then you don't make sure it is. We don't think it's serious to spend many billions of dollars on the defense, but we think it's okay that the school is old-fashioned and for example. do not have modern IT equipment so that children can receive the training they need. We're concerned with these consequences. We spend less money in some areas – that’s okay – but isn’t that what the policy is about? The policy is to do what is most important first. SV does it, and we do it consistently, and we do it without spending more money than the Workers' Party does. So it would have been completely possible to do things quite differently from what the Workers' Party does, but the difference is maybe that SV is talking to many parties about good solutions, and is willing to listen when someone has something to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e851	I feel that SV is concerned about justice and the good distribution of the resources we have in both the timing and the debate. SV is busy by school. Some press areas struggle to build schools because you count wrong, they get a lot of growth, and they don't have money to build, for example. for the new inhabitants. Why can the SV not agree with the proposal to move the date from 1 January to 1 October? Why can't SV be part of the proposal to now really ask for climate to be included? Therefore, SV cannot be included in the proposal to keep the key for the distribution of subsidies to agricultural offices, where the Government proposes, in reality to take funds from agricultural offices in small municipalities and transfer them, for example. to Oslo, who gets increased his grant from 1⁄4 million. NOK 40 million. Do you really want to delete this item? This can hardly be a fair distribution system. And why should we remove the funds of the religious community The Norwegian Church, a grant to church activities organized outside the ordinary municipal activities, by involving it in the income system? Why can't SV be involved in this kind of fair proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e860	As regards the need to strengthen the local economy in key areas, SV sees that there is a strong need for it. There is often a build-up of many people in need of public services, and many have a good economy, and if the public offer there is too bad and hanging out, it is at least a good sign of privatisation. So we see that need. But the reason why we haven't been involved in the counting time this time is because we feel that we need a little bit more time to look at it. But what SV has done is that, as we finance the grant to the particularly resource-intensive users outside the domain, we've only cut out 200 million. So I'm going to have $300 million. are within the discretion to be able to grant grants both to the press communities that experience the presence and occupation of Østberg and to those peripheral municipalities that lose much. What the government writes in the proposition, which SV agrees with, is that this is probably a more long-term and difficult problem for those who lose many people, because they don't have much to look forward to and so many to build on. That's why we want to look at it a little bit more. But, as I said, we have invested much more money, so it should be possible to grasp this within our arrangement. Then ask the representative why we don't want the climate to be included. SV has participated in a proposal asking the Government to come back and assess the impact of the changes that have now been made, and what is to come in the future. That's why. We want to see the whole thing. The agricultural offices, as Østberg mentioned, are one of the things we've been looking at, and as I thought it was most difficult to decide, but we also chose to leave it in now to see the full impact. What is important is not whether the individual pieces here are properly funded, but whether the sum has is sufficient in relation to the tasks they are required to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e873	It is the case today, whether it is believed or not, that public service production is unnecessarily expensive because of the absence of competition. And this is something that SV is very much involved in itself, because both politically and ideologically they are taking a great deal of distance from any postponing competition in public service production. Today we have a system of monopolies, which, in my view, is not an incentive to operate cost-effectively or with high quality. In my view, it is clear that to get quality into public welfare production, the competitive element needs to be considerably stronger. The monopoly system cannot continue. If we are to renew, modernise and streamline the public sector, we cannot do so without the strong instruments that the market and competition actually produce. I am aware that SV is not the right party to take on such a line, but how can SV – since they so strongly foreshadow the excellence of the public – be so sure that production is really cost-effective, because SV, together with the Center Party, only demands more money, more money? Giving a decent amount of money today is the only cost-effective element that the public has to deal with, but SV will deposit even more money. This is out of the question! I would therefore like to ask SV a question, as they are so strongly opposed to this with market and market-related instruments: how in the world can they be so sure that the solution they are facing, with public monopolies, is really cost-effective? That's what they're supposed to be saying, because they're so strong on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e884	SV is convinced that the market cannot solve the important needs that people have. We are concerned that it is a political and a public responsibility to make sure that the school is good enough for everyone, and it should be so good that everyone wants their children there. We also believe that it is a public responsibility to ensure that we have a good health service, good care and care. SV is very concerned that public enterprises should renew and improve. We are concerned that services should be cheaper, so it is not right when the representative of the Progress Party claims that our bid is only more money. It would have been interesting if the Progress Party would soon be able to give an account of how much their unit-price financing scheme would actually cost, how high charges there would be on the various social security schemes that will finance this, what tax increases it would be, whether there would be any incentive in these systems to provide cheap services, or whether it would perhaps be like there have been very many places where it has been tried, that it has become very bad services, and that people, when they need to complain or take things up, feel that they even have to go through a third paragraph to get to those who are responsible, namely the municipality. There are many examples that privatisation has neither provided cheaper offers nor improved offers. I note that the Progress Party, in order to save the municipal economy and the care of the elderly, wants heavily burdened cleaners to be offered, to work more and lose wages under sickness, while the party promises great tax relief to people with high incomes. There's a deep disagreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e893	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e896	The attitude of the Stortinget today is a good illustration of the extent to which we can talk in Norway about welfare municipalities at least as much as the welfare state. The primary municipalities and county municipalities offer citizens a well-being that includes most of the life-cycle – from kindergartens and education to care in old age and in case of illness. The left is satisfied that, through the budget agreement with the Workers' Party and the Centre parties last year, the municipalities were added NOK 1 1⁄4 billion. All of us who have a past in local politics know that it comes well into a municipal everyday life, where the clamps are still turned on and the gap between expectations and economic gambling grows for every day that goes. One of the reasons for this gap is that too many in this room too often create expectations from our colleagues in the municipalities that they will have resources to solve important tasks without the simultaneous monitoring of resources. Kommune-Norge would have been better off today if Stortinget had more often held his fingers off the barrel and not assumed responsibility which should of course be local. I think it is positive that the Workers' Party is now also committed to strengthening local self-government and reducing state detail management. Last year, the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research presented a comprehensive study of the Stortinget as a local political actor, which should be mandatory for both politicians, journalists and state bureaucrats. The conclusion of this study is as follows: There has been an increasing trend, not least in the last ten years, that the Stortinge regulates the details of municipal activities. Bit by bit are the municipal services subject to increased government governance, and bit by bit is the freedom of action reduced by state laws, regulations and designation. Trust in municipal autonomy seems to have been replaced by distrust. In NIBR’s study, it is stated that the representatives of the Workers’ Party only very little emphasise local self-government as a value in itself. And it is also said that the Workers' Party much more often refers to the consideration of national equality and problems related to local inequalities than to the desire for real, local democracy and warnings that local democracy is being undermined. The left stands out as the clearly most consistent defender of local self-government. The left will also challenge the other parties for the future to think about areas that can really matter. The recent debate on the ownership of hospitals by county councils is a typical example of the lack of interest in local selfgovernment. The left agrees that reforms are needed at regional level, but we totally disagree with the approaches being chosen. When one goes over to the specific matter that we are dealing with today on the financial framework, it is that when one knows what Kommune-Norway is struggling with, a proposed significant increase should be added to what the Government proposes. But Kommune-Norge is part of the total economy. The left agrees with the Christian People's Party that the framework should be slightly increased, estimated at DKK 1⁄2 billion, and that there should be opportunities for negotiation between the parties. A dialogue here is important. In this context, it is important that a fair compensation be given to the county councils by transferring ownership to the hospitals. Now the state must show respect and understanding for the county and listen to the signals coming. I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen in the description she gave of the situation here. In this respect, I would like to stress the importance of individual negotiations with the county councils in this matter. The Left therefore supports the proposals No. 1 and 13. Furthermore, hopefully everyone in this room has noticed that cross-border schools are threatened with closure as a result of the need for community economics. It's not just schools with a student number of ten-twelve students that are being laid down, but also schools with 50-100 students. These schools are very important for many communities, and it is therefore important that discretionary means can be used for municipalities that have such problems within their borders. For small municipalities in particular, financial management of resource-intensive users is often difficult. Furthermore, it is important to find arrangements for reimbursement of expenditure by particularly resource-intensive users. 80 pst. Reimbursement, as suggested by the Christian People's Party, may be a model, but initially I like better the proposal to the Right, where they ask the Government to investigate this further and come back to it. Similarly, there is a need to address the operational and investment needs of the older sector. In a later article, we will get back to the proposals we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e926	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e929	The representative of the Leftwing Party, inter alia: increased municipal autonomy. It's affordable. The Progress Party also emphasises increased municipal autonomy, but will, of course, have a single-cost financing to ensure that we receive equivalent municipal, public and services to all. I could imagine asking some questions to the representative from the left. The left is the oldest party in the country, from 1884. They have an interesting story, and in the case of local self-government, they have long traditions. Is this about, for example, free taxor something left is positive to? It would be quite an interesting aspect of Norwegian local democracy if it were possible to get free taxpayers, so that one could have tax competition between the different municipalities. It would vitalize local democracy and renew the interest to participate in elections. Norway consists of 435 municipalities. In these days there is a debate which is to a large extent related to the municipality structure and county structure in Norway. Is the Left a supporter of maintaining the existing municipal structure, or does the Left recognise that there is some need to change the municipal structure through mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e938	It was said that the left has an interesting story. I hope the replicator agrees that the left must also have an interesting future. I think we can all benefit from that. In the case of the Progress Party, it was underlined here that they are large trailers of local self-government. But I sometimes have problems seeing how this is related to the practical policy. Earlier today, it has been said that the Progress Party wants the state to take on all responsibilities in terms of health, schools, education and growth. We know from the past what kind of attitude the Progress Party has on culture, which is one of the tasks of the Municipality of Norway, and then my question is: what is left of the local autonomy of the Municipality of Norway if the policies of the Progress Party were to be implemented? So concretely to the question of free taxpayers. The answer is yes. The left is dependent on municipalities being able to determine a taxpayer within a given framework. I think it may be important in individual cases that one makes an agreement with the citizens – preferably through a referendum – that, by adding the taxpayer to it and that level, we can get it and that project implemented. Then there can be a real choice for the inhabitants, and it can help increase interest in local democracy. Of course, it will help to increase the interest in participating in elections — so this can probably be a good injection, but of course within a given framework. With regard to the municipal structure, we have as our starting point that this must be based on volunteering, and we have the confidence of local elected representatives that they see what serves their own inhabitants best.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e949	In the case of particularly resource-intensive users, who are multi-disabled people who need good luck care and care, the Left says that they want this issue to be further addressed. In the four years I have been on the municipal committee, this has been the theme. We've constantly asked the government to investigate this, and they've come up with one calculation model after another. Still, this is a big deal for the municipalities it's about, and they're struggling very hard with it. I wonder why the Left believes that more investigations are needed, in addition to those we already have. Is it true that the Left shares the view of both the majority and the Government that they do not fully trust the local politicians in this matter? They fear that they are going to wash money out of the window and find offers that are too expensive and costly, and therefore we have to put some brakes into this system. Is that what the Left's problem is? Or is it that the Left believes that the local government sector actually has to bear more of these costs, as it is now? According to SV, there is no room for this in the municipal sector, and it goes beyond the offer to these people. The SV’s view is that in this area a single price financing is needed, because this is not an offer to be subject to local discretion, it should be stable from year to year. So I could imagine challenging the Left, which is also an environmental party, to say something if they can see that there is a boost for public transport in the states of this budget. It's not made visible. And it has never been made visible in the budgets what offers are given through the framework transfers to the county municipalities, which contain the subsidy for public transport. In addition, much of the grant is now due to hospitalization. Is the left satisfied with the public transport we get out of this municipal economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e958	It is such that during the current period the Left is not represented in the Municipal Committee. Of course, I have had access to all the investigations to which this is referred, but I haven't seen them in practice, I just have to admit that. So it's a little difficult for a person who hasn't seen all of the investigations that have been presented here, to say that exactly a fraction of 600,000 kroner is the right thing, as the Christian People's Party and the Central Party here suggest, and that the state is going to pay 80 pst. of costs in addition to NOK 600 000. It's quite possible that's right, but I would have felt more comfortable if you had a thorough investigation of the consequences of the different models. As regards the problem of resource-intensive users, I fully agree with Andersen that this is a problem area for municipalities, especially small municipalities. This may give rise to a major impact, and it may result in a lower offer to the users concerned. It can also often make a worse offer to other groups, which then somehow come out of it unluckily. And then they ask me if I don't have the confidence that the local People's Government can decide this. I do, of course, but I think it might be important to have arrangements that do not give full compensation from the very beginning. The left is an environmental party, and I agree with the representative. As far as collective action is concerned, on repeated occasions we have proposed increased appropriations for it. One has failed to get it at as high a level as one would wish, but I believe that if the county politicians could see this in connection with investment and other measures, it could become more of a public service.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e968	I think it's a terrible passive hold from the Left's side when they don't accept 600,000 kroner as an asset and they have to have a fix on it before going on. I thought that the Left, which should be the prime champions of local democracy and bet on the local economy, should be able to trust that 600,000 kroner is what is needed. At least the Left should vote for one of the three proposals that go in that direction. And there's no doubt, and that's what I said in my post, that the best proposal is proposal No. 19 from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. But I also want to pay attention to another proposal, proposal No. 26. When the left is so busy that the municipal economy is so bad that we have to take action, this proposal is an example of measures that can improve the municipal economy. And not least, we can look at the debt stocks that the Center Party is so busy with. One knows that the price per cent. The health care centre is 830 000 kroner included, and the last figures show – this is a health care centre in Telemark, one place or another – that the construction costs are 1.4 million. kr per. Sick place. Then I thought it would have been quite natural, according to what Kongshaug's representative said in his speech, that he supported our proposal to increase the backbone so that the debts of the municipalities do not increase. Of course, this would also lead to a better municipal economy in the long term when you look at interest and deductions and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e977	It is good to record that we are perceived as a party occupied by the local People's Government, and in that context, I would say, concerned with local economy. I think that just these two things are very much interrelated, because the bad local economy that has been over a long time, and the frustration that results from it, leads to a lot of local elected people actually getting tired. They find that this isn't rewarding to keep on doing, they want to do other things, because what they're doing mostly is making decisions in small matters, while it's the state that's in charge at large, through, among other things. ear marking. With regard to the proposals that Solholm's representative referred to about resource-intensive users, I was going to come back to it at the end of my post, but the time was too short. What I would have said was that I would support proposal No. 16 and proposal No. 22 – whichever proposal falls first in voting. I was also challenged on proposal No. 26, which relates to grants to health care centres. I can confirm what Solholm's representative says, that because of the pressure in the economy – because we have too few hands to do all the tasks we have in society, and for which we have the economy – construction costs have gone to great lengths. I know, among other things from my own municipality of residence, that during the period of planning and decision-making, construction costs have almost doubled. Therefore, my conclusion is that I have great sympathy for the proposal put forward here by the Progress Party to increase grants for the construction of nursing homes. In addition, I have registered that the government will come back in a separate additional matter with this particular problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e988	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e991	At a high pace in the renewal of the public sector, it is good that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, stress that this must be done in close cooperation with the employees and their organisations. The model municipality project involving three municipalities has proved to be positive. I do not believe, of course, that we should have such projects in each municipality when conversions are required, but the experience from these model municipal projects is also important for other municipalities. In my opinion, the government's arrangements for the compensation scheme for particularly resource-intensive users are a clear improvement in relation to the current year. With an increase of 87 million within the discretionary pool. NOK 500 million. kr for 2002, as well as clearer premises for the scheme, feedback is so far positive. This gives better predictability with the possibility of planning the offer to this group, while at the same time municipalities with many users will come out better. I am pleased that the Right does not get a majority for its proposal to this group. In fact, they propose that the Government should investigate and propose a top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users, with a significant municipal share outlined at least 30 pst. As I interpret the comment and the proposal, this is justified by cost control. The question I am asking myself is whether the Right believes that the municipalities can be tempted to offer this group of good offers. To put it that way, the Workers' Party believes that they deserve better offers, and therefore the appropriations for the municipalities are increased. The action plan for the elderly is due to end in 2002. The application period for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes is extended until 1 October 2001. We are already seeing the need for further priority criteria in the final phase. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that exclusive and quality promotion are important objectives, as well as increasing the coverage of places/dwellings with good luck care and care. We believe that the priorities between these objectives must be done locally and in cooperation with county and county councillors. It would be unfortunate to try to steer these assessments from central authorities. Proposal No. 45 that has been submitted has a device that makes us from the Workers' Party consider the proposal. In addition, the members of the Workers' Party shall refer to the Innst Committee. S. No 92 for 1999-2000. The government continues its work on the liquidation and inclusion of earmarked grants. That's good, but there are some challenges here. The Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party have their own comment on the municipal agricultural management. From 2002 it has been proposed that the funds should be covered by the transitional arrangements so that they are gradually distributed according to the criteria of the income system. However, this majority considers that the redistribution of agricultural resources may give rise to some unreasonable results. With this in mind, the majority emphasises that, in cooperation between the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, compensation must be provided for major redistribution effects, as set out in the proposal. The right has a stake in the school as a flagship, and says in a note that they trust that the right local politicians within the framework of the municipalities will give priority to the school. In this way, one would believe that the Labour Party and the Right had the same view, as we also believe that within the increased framework it would be possible for local politicians to invest more in school. However, I see a clear difference, namely that the Right wants more investment in private solutions than we in the Workers' Party want. Then we can agree that this duel has to be determined by the local government. For the Workers' Party, the growing-up conditions of children and young people are of great importance, and we believe that equal opportunities and equal foundations through public schools are the best. Of course, the hospital reform and compensation for this has been high on the list in the treatment of the municipal proposition. The rapporteur has underlined this in his statement, so I would just like to make a brief remark that I am pleased with the additional allocation of 200 million. kr for which the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have agreed. This is not the whole world of money, but within the premises these parties have put in their notes, it will give a somewhat better situation for some county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1023	This proposition has two parts, an economic part and one that are in the process of reforming and renewing local and local democratic work. These are two seemingly different parts, but they are still closely linked. The resources allocated are the responsibility of the local government to manage them in such a way that they primarily benefit the inhabitants. Therefore, reforms are important, and therefore it is also important that we from a central point of view participate in this reform and give municipalities and municipalities the opportunity to participate in it. In a rapidly changing world, we see both that democracy has new opportunities and that democracy is being put under pressure. The National Government is a fundamental value and a declaration of trust, which gives each citizen an opportunity to influence the decisions taken by the elected people. But this democracy still needs to be renewed in the course of social development. It applies locally, in the case of nationally, and in so far as it also applies internationally. Therefore, the lack of commitment is a challenge for democracy at home. The Christian People's Party wants to work for a more living democracy that opens up more personal political influence for the individual citizen. Engagement shall be both simple and exciting. In Norway, the right to democracy is guaranteed by the Constitution. The Court makes it clear that citizens are invited to participate in large-scale elections, to county councils and to local councils. Democracy is also expressed through an independent legal system, through various consultation mechanisms and ombudsmen’s arrangements, through free media and the diversity of civil society. Democracy requires trust between voters and politicians, and this trust again depends on how we, as politicians, carry out our tasks. This is an ethical dimension which can easily be overlooked in the political debate. As a Christian Democratic Party, therefore, the Christian People's Party points to values such as honesty, solidarity, self-sacrifice, responsibility and care, so that democracy can be strong and vital. But, as I said, democracy is under pressure. We see that voting is low, and that is especially true of young people. And there are several reasons for this. At home, democracy is challenged from within. Society is becoming more and more professional, and people often feel repressed towards the public. State overmanagement is perceived as a hollowing out of local self-government, so many turn to interest groups and engage in actions, related to specific issues with a relatively short time horizon. And I think it's worrying when the formal institutions of democracy are perceived as not suitable for involvement in such matters. The political parties represent the very nervous system of democracy. And if these are not a force for policy making, democracy will be confused. We therefore need a debate on the parties and the electoral organisation to strengthen people's involvement in politics. The Christian People's Party believes that closeness between decision-makers and those affected is important. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to place decision-making authority as close to the users as possible. In concrete terms, this means that we disagree with the kind of administration of hospital systems that removes an important social sector from the influence of voters. Strengthening local democracy is about greater freedom and greater identification with decisions. It is clear that in the allocation of tasks, there should be consistency between responsibility, freedom to choose solutions and funding. Unfortunately, we are experiencing many politicians locally who feel repressed, because there is a lack of coherence between the tasks assigned and the corresponding transfers of funds from the state. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will both give greater responsibility and power to the local level, and at the same time ensure that the local level receives the resources they need. At the end of the day, I just want to pay tribute to the municipal minister, who has answered the important question in the municipality of Ølen in a neat and straightforward way in relation to the round we had last year. I think it makes sense that a group is now being appointed to investigate the more practical problems, but that does not mean a postponement of the process that is now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1044	The municipal proposition is highly relevant to people's everyday lives, because it's in the municipalities that people live in. There are growing expectations of the services offered by the local government in terms of both quantity and quality. The public sector needs to be renewed to address these challenges. It is also a key objective of the Government's renewal work. Here a large part of the job must be done by the municipalities and county councils themselves, and many municipalities are already doing this work well. The government wants to facilitate the further development of the renewal work both in the municipalities and in the county municipalities. We do that not least by reducing the state-level detailed management of the local government sector. The share of free revenues increases, inter alia: by following up the plan for the incorporation and winding-up of earmarked grants. We simplify state legislation aimed at the municipal sector, and we simplify reporting requirements. 137 reporting schemes are proposed to be closed or simplified in this round. I'm glad that the majority essentially joins the financial structure of the municipal sector for the next year, although it's a little different device. A real growth of DKK 3–3.5 billion in 2002 is better than the outlook for the current year. The share of free income in total income growth is significantly higher in 2001 and 2002 than in the previous two years. I have to tell the Center Party – which now in opposition can give significantly more money than they could at any time get while they were in government – that I think it is something wonderful. I also think it is very strong when the representative Meltveit Kleppa is standing on this platform and says that the Labour Party's arrangement for the municipalities next year, does not mean that it is money, among other things. to children and young people. It's with respect to report customs, and it's wrong. A high proportion of free revenues provide room for local priorities, be it improvements in the provision of services or the creation of economic imbalances. So a few words about the hospitals. The Health Minister is going to say more about it, but at least let me refute the claims that have also come from this pulpit during this debate, that our economic settlement as hospitals now move to the state is going to be a guided winding-up of county municipalities. That's wrong. We are going to debate another matter shortly after this debate, where, of course, the Labour Party's position on it is quite clear. I would also like to stress that the transfer of responsibility for hospitals in itself is not intended to solve all financial problems in county municipalities. The counties have had and have a separate responsibility for adapting the activity to the resources available at all times. However, we are taking many steps to strengthen the county economy through this proposition, and it has also been further strengthened by a majority voting for another 200 million. kr through the treatment here in Stortinget. And when most county councils say that the financial imbalance is caused by hospitals, it will be that the prerequisites for correcting the imbalances in the years to come must be much better when county councils are no longer responsible for hospitals. So some words about the conversion of the income system, which starts next year. These changes are intended to compensate for differences in income between municipalities. All experience suggests that the explanations of differences in service provision between municipalities are due to the income system. With the changes that will now be implemented, there is a basis for a more equivalent service provision regardless of the municipality in which you live. Municipalities with tax income below 110 pst. the national average which suffers a significant loss in conversion shall be compensated. I otherwise record that the number of committees asks the Government to assess whether there may be specific expenditure variations related to drugs and psychiatry in the largest cities that are not captured by today's income system. We will return to this at the latest in the 2003 Community Proposition, as requested by the Committee. Next year's municipal structure contributes to the continued strengthening of the local economy. We facilitate greater local freedom of action. We start over a five-year period with progressively more even distributions of income, thus laying the basis for a more uniform standard of municipal service provision, regardless of where we live. At the same time, the municipal sector itself must contribute through transformation and efficiency, so that we get the most out of each krona service, for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1069	I want to discuss two matters with the Council of State. One thing I mentioned in my main post. Thus, there has been considerable uncertainty on the timing of population censuses in relation to the income system on the part of the Workers' Party in the Committee. If you read the Proposition from the Government, which has an assessment of the development of the growth municipalities and the ability to impose capital costs and criteria for it and the timing of counting, at least part of us perceives it so that the Government still does not want to speed up the date of the population census in relation to either the income balancing or the population grant in the income system in relation to today's 1 January of the year before that year the budget is about. That is why a proposal has also been made, proposal No. 8, to count at a later date in the case of the population grant. It is also stated in the proposition, in the discussing part of it, that it is possible to count income equalisation at a later date than it is today. However, in the summary of the ministry, they will not recommend this until the changes in the income system have been incorporated. I would like the Council of State to clarify the uncertainty as to when you count, and, if so, why it is so important to have a delay of nearly a year and more than that in relation to the problems of the municipalities of growth. If that's how we're not able to read the proposition, I'm happy if this can be solved. Then I have a special relationship that I want to bring up with the Council of State. This is a special situation in which the municipality of Mandal has come up with in connection with damage to the Gismer Island, which was also briefed on last year, and which I know they have met with the department during the past few days. The situation is that the municipality of the autumn will come in a situation where they will have to pay NOK 70 000 per year. the month if they are not put into action there. This is a natural damage. My question is: Will the Ministry consider participating in the financing of the correction of Gismer Island?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1082	I assume that when Solberg's representative asks when it's being counted, she thinks about the expenditure bias, but also about the income bias, and I'm going to try to answer as best I can. In cap. 12 in the proposal, an assessment has been made of the various components of the income system, as the representative is aware, based on population figures. For example, the Ministry calculates the framework grant. for the following year in September 2001. In order to provide figures for the population grant, the expenditure offset for the purposes of the State budget for the work of the municipalities on their budget for the coming year, figures must be used as from 1 January preceding the financial year. This is also about predictability in relation to municipalities. In the case of income bias, a certain time lag may be appropriate for professional reasons, but the transition to new population figures will give a relatively large impact on the income tax revenue of local authorities with less than 110 pst. of the national average. Although the Ministry believes that there are good arguments to switch over to using the last available population figures in relation to the income bias, we believe that such a conversion will not take sufficient account of the relocation municipalities and municipalities with uneven age distribution their needs for time to convert and convert the service. The Ministry has therefore assumed that it should not use more recent population figures in the anti-balancing of income. When it comes to the question of Mandal, I ask for understanding that I cannot take it on a tight arm from this pulpit right now. I will bring with me what the representative said, back to the department, and we will check the matter and give an appropriate feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1095	The Council of State expresses – and with strong emphasis both in tone and body language – the need for municipalities to renew themselves. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that just under 20 years ago, when I was appointed rapporteur for the second time in one of the municipalities of the country, we renewed and converted, and that has been done ever since. It seems to the Council of State that she is not aware that the municipal sector is conducting a continuous process of conversion and renewal. I would like to confirm that the Council of State is aware that this has actually been going on for years. But we have to simplify Norway, and then the proposals of 137 cut or simplify are good. I could imagine getting the State Council's comment on what the Municipality's Central Association expressed to us in the committee when we had them at the hearing. They said that they supported most and were happy with what had come from both their own proposals and other proposals, but they asked that the Refugee Calculation Committee not be closed. They pointed out that some of the 137 proposals are little concrete, and also pointed out that there are examples of proposals for measures already implemented. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State says it is wrong when it is claimed that the county councils will resign at death through the government's arrangement. I would like to remind you of the demands of KS, which a large minority have tried to follow up, namely that individual negotiations must be conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1107	I can reassure the representative of Østberg that I am fully aware that there is a very large amount of both renewal and conversion work in many municipalities and counties in our country. I believe that I also said in my main post. But I also believe that we cannot settle down on that. Those who have done a lot of things should be very grateful for it, but I'm absolutely sure it's a potential to do even more. And much we can do from the state, too, by taking the grips that lead to less state detail management. There are also, in itself, important interventions to get something done more in the renewal process. So now, when we say 137 fewer reporting arrangements or simplifications, when we gradually complete the inclusion and winding-up of earmarked grants, when we now make fewer demands on action plans, on skills when to hire people from the state, and when we go through what is involved in laws and regulations, it is important to contribute to the renewal of the public sector. So to the concrete proposal that Østberg referred to, that the Municipal Councils have taken up with regard to the Refugees Calculation Committee, and a desire that it not be laid down. These are signals that I take seriously, and which I think we should seriously consider. I think there are good reasons why that particular sample might need to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1116	This applies to renewal. I must say it was an interesting definition given by the representative of Østberg. They've been renewing themselves all along since he was vice-chairman in Harstad, it was probably, 20 years ago. But we need a simplification, he said. If one is to translate it into more direct language, it must mean that the renewal that has been going on for the last 20 years has led to a distortion and, therefore, a need for simplification. It is clear that we will be discussing the county council in a moment. I have to say that I'm happy – happy – for the state council Brustad didn't get a pass at the national meeting of the Workers' Party for its King's – or the Queen's Tank, one might have to say – about five large regional states. But I'm sorry that the committee's leader, Berit Brørby, didn't get through to his point of view, which is to put down the county council. What surprises me is that when we read St. pp. No 82, contrary to the actual proposition last year, it is chemically free of the word competitive. Not a single word, yet one knows after a coup d'état of the ten best local authorities in the world, who have completed the competition, that they are not guided by the principle that the public should produce all public services, but directed after the public pays, and that perhaps they produce in competition. But there's a little sentence -- I don't think of the side numbers -- that it's not always so that the public needs to produce all the services. I could be interested in getting the Council of State to deepen it. Does it just mean that one should continue with the little one today, that the technical sector has some private to break some municipal roads osb., or does it mean that the Council of State has not forgotten that there is an opening for one to compete with heavy care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1127	Let me first comment on the first representative of Solholm on the five regions. There was no vote in any way at the national meeting, and it is well known to the representative Solholm, so I do not feel that I have suffered any defeat in any way. But in our party we practice highly thinking, and I think that's okay. We will discuss the county council and what belongs to that matter a little later today, but let me just say two words about it in this round, since the representative took it up. Once we've gone in our way to make sure that we think it's right to maintain a popular regional level, it's among other things. Because if you had put down the county councils, your tasks wouldn't have gone away with it. And then the question is, who would have taken care of those problems? Especially with the municipal structure we have, with so many small municipalities, at least we believe that you cannot automatically transfer all of the tasks to the municipalities. We also believe it is wrong to have more strong government control. That's the other way we want to go. Otherwise you probably had to build a bigger bureaucracy than what we have today, and I didn't think that the Progress Party was a very strong supporter of. When it comes to the issue of outsourcing, it is the municipalities that individually decide what they do with it. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that we are not in any way in favour of outsourcing, especially with regard to basic health and welfare services that people depend on, and to which we believe everyone should have access, no matter where they live in the country, no matter how rich they are, no matter how old they are, and no matter what sex they have. There, the Progress Party is completely different from our thinking, compared to the fact that in no way do we believe that it is the market that can solve the challenges we have in terms of welfare services, especially if we want it to live around the country, and the Workers' Party wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1139	For the second consecutive year, the Government has provided an economic structure that represents significant growth in the income of the municipal sector. For 2002, there is an increase in revenue of between DKK 3 and 3.5 billion, of which about half is the growth of free income. The framework is supported by a majority in this Chamber. For the current year, real growth is estimated at approximately DKK 4.5 billion in total revenue. This means that the economic development of the local government sector is now positive, after several years of negative development. Nevertheless, there is still considerable rigour in the economic situation of this sector. In the last two years, the Labour Party Government has committed to a growth in the income of the local government sector that is significantly greater than the central parties entered in their budgets when they put in government position and presented the government budget and the municipal economic proposition. When the central parties now consider that the Government's proposal does not extend, this is in stark contradiction to what they themselves prioritised in practical policy from the government position. I can therefore not fail to note that the proposal of the Central Party to increase the free revenues by 4 billion kroner in addition to the government's commitment for 2002 and in addition to 12 billion in debt will remain in a very strange light. This must be known as undiscovered overbidder policy. It's tempting to say that the Center Party is acting like veiled peasants, with it being really too sweet! Substantial parts of the welfare provision of the population are provided in municipalities. It is where people usually meet the public services such as schools, kindergartens and care services. We know that there are still gaps in all of these areas. The implementation of the elderly effort continues. I assume that the Government is following developments closely in the allocation of commitments between the current and next year, so that planned expansions can be implemented in a rational way. After hearing the representative, Mr Kleppa, explained that proposal No. 45 does not imply other than flexibility between the annual and next year's development framework, the Workers' Party Group will also provide its support for such a proposal. When the government presented the municipal arrangement for the next year, the head of the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager said that this was the time-long bet on kindergartens. He was right about that. That's a necessary bet. Targeted measures shall provide nursery facilities to all those who so wish and halve the parental payment in relation to the current level. Now, the situation is that many people don't get the kindergarten they need. We soon have the world's highest professional participation, including among young children's parents. The Labour Party believes that parents should have the security that the children have a good care offer while they are working. The work to get full child care coverage should therefore be at the top of our agenda. For many families, the cost of kindergarten is too heavy a financial burden. It is therefore necessary to introduce measures to reduce parental pay. For 2002, the following effort is now being made for families with children: New places for 10,000 children in 2002, of which 4000 for children over three years of age and 6000 for children under three years of age. The free revenues will be used to cover the costs incurred by municipalities in setting up new places. Reduced parental pay. This can only be done by taking a higher share of the costs. Therefore, tomorrow’s Stortinget will grant 240 million in the context of the review of the revised national budget, on a proposal from the Government. kr for reduced parental payment already from the second half of this year. Next year, this will increase to NOK 1 billion. Then the cost of parents is reduced by approximately NOK 4000 per year. years. It will be of great importance to many families with children. But this is just the beginning. During the upcoming ageing period, the kindergarten sector will be allocated a total of approximately DKK 5 billion. The needs of kindergartens shall be met and the parental payment halved – down to 20 pst. of the costs. This will be a significant boost for families with children. Yes, this will be the babysitting of the times! The government has also provided a good municipal structure for 2002. In addition to sound financial frameworks and strong child care efforts, a programme for more services has been presented to people and smaller administrations in municipalities. Less detailed management should ensure more money where they are needed most, for health, for school and for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1172	The largest individual case in terms of changes in the municipal proposition from the current year to 2002 is due to the transfer of ownership of the specialist health service from the county councils to the state with effect from 1 January 2002. The size has now adopted a new law on health enterprises and thus established the legal basis for total public liability in the specialist health services. This is one of the most comprehensive health reforms ever. The entire specialist healthcare service with about 100,000 employees in hundreds of large and small units across the country will change employer and ownership and be organised in autonomous enterprises, 100 pst. owned by the State. This will bring together the responsibility for ownership and funding at the hands of the state, and it will end with all discussions about who is responsible for the situation in the hospital sector. At the same time, a clearer division of responsibilities and roles between ownership, management and management of hospitals is established. It also establishes better conditions for the governance and management of some of the most important and complex organisations in the Norwegian community. This is important if we are to get more out of the large common resources deployed in the hospital sector in Norway. The overall objective is, of course, to provide the whole population with better and more equivalent access to good health services when they need it, regardless of age, sex, economics, ethnicity, residence, etc. That's what this case is about. For the current treatment of the local authority proposition, Stortinget shall, inter alia: decide on the implementation of the financial settlement with county councils as a result of this hospital reform. It goes without saying that with the very complex and complicated financing model we have today, with a variety of different cash flows from the state via 19 county municipalities to all the hospitals that the 19 own, the economic settlement could easily become very demanding. It may also be useful to remind each other that this is, after all, a matter of re-allocation of responsibilities between levels of government, levels of administration which have the common responsibility for managing the property and interests of the population. The general principle of settlement is very simple: it is that, after the activities relating to the specialist health service have been transferred to the State, the county municipalities are as well able to perform the other tasks assigned to them as they were before that transfer. To this extent, I agree with those who have pointed out earlier in the debate that this is not a settlement for the hospitals and their activities, but for the county councils and their remaining tasks after the state has assumed responsibility for the specialist health service. The challenge has been to design the concrete settlement in a way that respects this principle. The government’s proposals for financial arrangements for 2002 do so collectively. Among other things, it is drawn approx. $800 million. kr less of county income than it costs to operate the specialist health service today. Of course, I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs largely supports the Government's proposal for financial settlement with the county councils. Thus, in many ways, the last pieces are put in place to implement the major health reform less than a year after the government first called for the state to assume responsibility for hospitals. It is not unnatural that such a major reform is also controversial. Once a final clarification has been made in the Storting, both the implementation of the reform and the economic settlement, it is essential that all parties involved cooperate on the implementation itself. There are decisions now taken by the Stortinget. On the basis of these, the very demanding tasks of implementing these decisions are now under way. There is broad agreement on the overall objectives. We should therefore be able to cooperate constructively within the defined framework conditions and work for the reform, not against it. In this way, we will also achieve the objectives for which there is such broad cross-political agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1194	There are two different issues that are currently being debated at the same time, the health service we have, and the county economy. One is the question of treatment, which will be addressed tomorrow in the context of the revised national budget, and the other is the question of the extraction of the county economy. I would like to say that there is a special situation when we experience almost daily that the county councils report such a large deficit and so severe restrictions that they are going to cut down on the health service. All of the county councils that have contacted the municipal committee — with the exception of three or four — have reported cuts in the health provision that Tore Tønne will take over from the New Year. It has been felt that the deficits that have accumulated in the hospital sector are great, and you fear that you will not be able to cover any of these deficits. Now it is that Tore Tønne at an earlier time has given a signal that a deficit should be covered. What has been done in the government's plan is to calculate a deficit in relation to the proportion of the hospital economy of the accumulated deficits in the county. But most of us who have a certain knowledge of the county councils know that there are now two areas where deficits occur, and that is child protection and the hospital sector. And that means that there's an underestimation of how much of the deficits are associated with hospitals. That means we're almost getting panic-oriented cuts to make sure that high school and transportation aren't going to get so severe cut next year. Does the Council of State see that there is a need for a softer hand to ensure that it is the same health service that he actually believes he is taking over and going to take over to New Year, so that we do not get a series of cuts in the health service beyond the harvest because the county authorities want to make sure that the deficit is too large for New Year's?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1203	It is clear that the year we are in is a very special year of special challenges in the operation of the specialist health service, due to the major changes that are being made in implementing it. The budgets provided for the county councils and the specialist health service for the current year are basically budgets designed to enable the continuation of the specialist health service at the level previously held, and also with an increase in the order of a few percent in patient treatment. I have, throughout the contact with the county councils about this reform, laid the foundations and also gained the clear understanding from the county councils that they will carry out their ownership and feel their ownership of the hospitals as if they were to have it forever, even though they are fully aware that a decision on a change is likely to be made. To this extent, there should be no reason why the development of the hospital economy in the current year would evolve differently from that of the other years, and different from that originally foreseen. However, it is clear that, to the extent that it turns out that the state's actual takeover has affected the hospital operation and affected the management of the county councils, we need to discuss more closely with the county councils how these issues should be addressed in the next six months. But I believe that the arrangement that is here now takes care of those considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1210	Earlier in the debate, I agreed with the general principle on which the Council of State was based. But is it that the Council of State then believes they are wrong, these county councils, who are now saying that they are dealing with their financial plans, and that there is a huge impact on school services and transportation, on which the representative Erna Solberg was just talking? KS says: ‘The extraction from the counties of the new health establishments is too large. The Government's objective of ensuring that county councils are able to carry on their tasks satisfactorily cannot be fulfilled in accordance with the arrangements in place.» Is it true that the Council of State believes that KS is wrong? Is it not true that the calculation models do not take into account the different counties? Is it not the case that the Government of the Proposition has just pointed out that this is going to lead to large redistributions between counties? When in my own home state, Troms, there's an accumulated deficit of 142 million. kr and you also expect a deficit of the current year, and this is not compensated, it is going to be wrong. Is it not then that it is going to be wrong when the revenue for administrative expenses in Troms is 24 million kroner? kr and the actual expenditure of the health administration is 6 million. Is it because you have cut down and streamlined earlier? Is it not going to be wrong when the cost of capital is 140 million? kr withdrawn, only costs the county municipality 117 million. kr because you have renegotiated your loans and have a longer payment time than the government expects? Just the last one means 23 million. In addition, the county has to save money, and it is precisely in transport and school that this can be done. That means you don't respect the general principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1224	The representative of Østberg asks a lot of questions that it is not possible to deal with in a short answer. But first of all, when it comes to the question of whether I think the county councils are wrong when they report on the financial problems, operating deficits, etc., which they are facing, I have at least not stated that they are. I have also not been able to go so far through the detailed statements, the reports that have come here. I will initially not claim that they are mistaken in their explanation of the financial problems. But I would argue that there are financial problems that are not due to the fact that it is decided that the State should assume ownership of the specialist health service. There may be many other reasons, and it may be just as serious for it, but it is not the state’s takeover of ownership – which has allegedly contributed strongly to creating the financial problems of the county councils – that may be the cause of the problems. You could almost say the opposite. When it comes to the settlement itself now and the extraction, I want first of all to remember that there is an extract of 800 million. kr less than what the accounting figures suggest it could be, i.e. 800 million. kr less than the actual cost of operating the specialist health service. In relation to this, a number of adjustments have been made. Account has been taken of the assumption of accounting figures in relation to objective criteria and the impact has been taken into account. I understand that I do not have the opportunity to go further into it. There will be occasions later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1234	We're assuming that's going to be that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1237	Initially, the Minister of Health took care of what fundamental considerations were behind the state takeover of hospitals. I'm not going to record that thread. That decision has been taken. I just want to say that the state is now going in and taking over in the way it is done, and that means that a distanced relation to democratic influence, as well as from users and from the populist community level, contradicts the chapter that is part of the proposition we are dealing with today, which deals with local democracy and what it means for the individual to influence the services at the closest possible level as a will. The Minister of Health used the term understanding. I need to know what understanding was between the Council of State and the County Council. I understand that it is not the economic situation itself after the state has taken over the hospitals. To that is the letter, both from the South-Tronde Team, Eastfold, Hordaland, Rogaland, Troms and North-Tronde Teams, clarifying to the Committee. Similarly, it is expansive for those of us who follow so closely in the county that we see what they have already been forced to cover and cut in other areas, i.e. education and transportation, to have enough resources for health services. What causes the Minister of Health to exonerate the actual situation in the county councils, while giving up 230 million. kr to the Rikshospitalet when they're underfoot?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1244	The understanding that I referred to was, as I said, an understanding that the current owners of the hospitals and the specialist health services, the county councils, throughout this year were to exercise their ownership responsibility as if they were to have it forever. I believe that this is the only proper way to exercise ownership, even if one should also know that sooner or later it will cease and be transferred to others. It has been understood that they should exercise their ownership responsibility in this way, even though we have also cooperated and worked on the possibilities of a state acquisition at the turn of the year. It is from what I believe that it is in itself, that a state acquisition of the hospitals is adopted, that there should be no influence on the development of the economy, neither in county municipalities nor in hospitals, nor on the governance of the county councils with this economy. With regard to the appropriations for the Rikshospital, which were dealt with in the Stortinget earlier this week, I believe that at least numerically it is not comparable with the problems associated with the other hospitals, simply because a real budget was not adopted for the Rikshospital when the Stortinget dealt with the state budget for the current year. It was then a clear understanding that there was a question to come back to during this year, and that was the basis for that allocation. For the rest, the appropriations were made in connection with the decision of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1254	Now it is the second year in a row that the Workers' Party government provides a budget with additional transfers to the municipalities. In fact, there is also an increase in transfers of free revenues. Of course, there is support in Stortinget today, and that is good. But when I see that, for example. The centre party also this year has more money than we do, it is not a good idea when we know that they have been in government for several years and have been able to do something in relation to the municipalities, and left it alone. It's not that I don't believe the underprivileged municipalities money, but it's that it's a holistic economy that's important, both in relation to where we're going to spend the money in the public and private sectors, and not least in relation to whether the pressure in the economy is so big that interest rate raising threatens us. With all the different tasks assigned to municipalities, municipalities need more free income. I want to point specifically to the nursery sector. There are too few kindergartens, and there are too many children's playgrounds. Therefore, I am very pleased that transfers this year are increasing slightly, but the large increase is coming next year – and for the next four years – with an increase in the kindergarten sector in 10,000 new places. I want to say that reducing the parental payment is important. For now, places have been so expensive that many parents assess whether they can have their children in kindergarten. It's a development that we can't live with and accept, because when the nursery provision has been so important that it's possible to get the day together, we have to make sure that they get more transfers to the municipalities and that the parental payment is reduced. When it's about the schools, there's a lot of big places missing. Many places are good too, but more resources are needed. Therefore, free income to municipalities is important. Unfortunately, we have experienced that when one is going to cover it one has put on and committed to it when it comes to the care of the elderly and the care services, there has been too much cut in the school supply and in the contents of the school. Therefore, it is important that municipalities get more money that they can put into school. Then I myself joined last year in saying that the school leisure arrangements should be part of what was no longer to be heard. But I think it's very important to look at the entire school leisure system in a larger context. That's why I'm glad it's not being done this year. I'm a little horrified that the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party are not looking at the developments that have been taking place. But I know that the Progress Party and the Right believe that this is a welfare offer, so it has a good connection with it. But, of course, for the Workers' Party, it has a connection with the entire school offer, how to organize your everyday life and make the school free time arrangements part of the provision for young people. The Elder Reform must be carried out. But there are unfortunately several municipalities that have not started, and that have not received a loan for what they are going to start. That is why it is important for the Right Party and the Labour Party to point out that those municipalities that have poor coverage must also be given priority over getting the loans they really need to get started with what the Stortinget has said to do when it comes to following the older reforms. The services for people living in municipalities are more important than the size of municipalities, and there are different services available in different municipalities now. I have to say that the large municipalities, the municipalities of growth, often have a worse offer than very many small ones. It's not supposed to be offered by the small ones, it's not what I mean, but at least I'm glad that there's a change of mood that can be distributed to the municipalities of growth, even if I wanted it to be part of the criterion when allocating the funds. Because it is clear that, for example: My municipality, which has had an increase of 1,000 people over a two-year period – this applies to several other municipalities as well – is very difficult to meet the needs that people have. I am very afraid that in such a situation there will be private solutions that answer. We're not going to light that up. That's because there's so much growth. I don't think we're going to have to look at the municipal structure, and I think a carrot and whip have to be used here. We should get bigger municipalities, smaller administrations and more services.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1271	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1274	Equal rights to education are a guiding principle of the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party will have a single school of equivalency, security and quality. At the same time, we believe that the school should be based on the community, and we believe that the municipalities, which are almost both students and parents, are best suited to run the primary public school in Norway. This is a demanding balance. Local self-government means that we have to find that there are differences between different municipalities and differences between different parties in local government in the priority of the school. On the other hand, we also have a national responsibility to ensure equivalent growth conditions. This week there has been a look-up in the national media about the parental reaction in Tromsø. The Tromsø School is in crisis. Much is due to a lack of maintenance over many years, and I would like to remind you that Tromsø was right-headed for 20 years until the Workers' Party took over in 1999. But it doesn't help kids to blame those who crashed in the 1980s and 1990s. For the sake of the young, there is a need for action. Besides, the parents in Tromsø are not alone. For example, a few years ago, the Children’s Ombudsman calculated that it would cost 16 billion kroner to clean up kindergartens and primary schools for today’s regulations. The working party wants students to have the right to a good working environment, as is the case with adult employees. That is why we have sent out a bill on this at the hearing, and we propose to anchor the law in the Training Act. But a law is not enough. We also have to make sure that the municipalities have an economic opportunity to follow such a law. It's far more important than tax laws, and I have to say that I hope the election campaign will stand between those who want tax laws, on the one hand, and us who want to strengthen welfare, on the other. That's why I'm pretty clear when I hear the posts from the center today. Here are the election vows loose, and the criticism of the Labour Party is hard, just like four years ago, before the election campaign in 1997. But what happened? The years of central government were the most difficult for the municipal sector in the whole of the 1990s. Both in 1997 and 1998 the Labour Party proposed more money to municipalities than the centre parties. In the autumn of 1999, the Workers' Party was given more money to the municipalities when we cooperated on the budget with the centre, and after the Workers' Party came into government, we have submitted proposals for a stronger growth in the local economy than the central government proposed when it directed. It's at the intersection of the center and the Workers' Party that we can get to the best solutions for municipalities. For the sake of the kids who are going to start or are already going to school, I hope that the center of the election campaign will choose well-being rather than cooperation with the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1293	Municipalities are an important producer of public services, perhaps the most important of all. In the Christian People's Party, we have a strong desire to have a good public school. Then municipalities and county councils, which are responsible for them, must have an economy that makes it possible to fulfil their responsibilities. After reading the position of the majority today, as a school politician, I am very concerned about high school in 2002. It is okay for the majority to want the state to take over the hospital operation, but then the settlement has to be done in a good and fair way. I note that in its calculations the State does not compensate for the underfinancing of additional consumption in hospitals. This results in less money for other services in 2002, for example: secondary schools. This is very unfortunate when we rather need to step up our efforts in school. Higher education faces the challenge of adapting training more closely to individual students. It requires resources. At the same time, the counties are now to offer to adults, and this also requires resources. The majority are trying to correct the imbalance in the county economy with a new 200 million. kr. This is a contribution, but not enough to solve the problems that the majority themselves are creating by the state taking over the hospitals. At my discretion, the Labour Party and the Advance Party will have to take responsibility for making the offer in higher education worse next year. I had actually expected an engagement from Minister of Education Giske in today's debate, and I can't honestly see that the Minister of Education can sit still and see that higher education is getting worse. I don't think the government has found good solutions to the financial settlement with the states when the government is going to take over the hospitals. Templates are dangerous, not least when used in a way that also attracts income from the states themselves, e.g. revenues from own power plants. In the Nord-Trøndelag, the inhabitants have built a large and solid electricity plant. The population has paid high electricity prices themselves, and now the county can benefit from dividends that can benefit the population. Then the state comes and takes the money. This is not fair and cannot be accepted. The majority compensation of 200 million. kr, will not cover this withdrawal in full. At the discretion of me and the Christian People's Party, this could have been solved through negotiations with the county council. Unfortunately, it is not a majority, and this will affect the service provision in the county. That must be the responsibility of today's majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1306	Both proposal No. 1 and No 13 involves individual negotiations with county councils if stated in connection with the transfer of ownership to hospital. It is important that the schemes that are so far known give unreal results to the counties between them. The arrangements for the cancellation of debts, in addition to the debts, linked to the specialist services, give an unpredictable result. The county councils that have recently built hospitals do not receive funds for additional debt cancellation, while the county councils that have hospital debt below the average level are remunerated with other debts. This seems very unreal in the view of the Centre Party, and the State must conduct real negotiations with the county councils on this matter individually, so that arrangements that are better and fairer can be established. There must be something wrong with the schemes that are established, when the rash becomes so uneven between the regions. Health regions 1 and 2 include the Austland. They will receive DKK 1.8 billion from the 2.3 billion consulted in the Debt Reorganization Scheme. 77 pst. By comparison, health region 3, the West, receives $97 million. kr, i.e. 4.2 pst. Looking one at the population, region has east 55.1 pst. and region west 20,5 pst. Looking further at the longer-term distribution effects, e.g. Hordaland County lost 130 million in a five-year period. kr due to the extension of the hospital reform. This, together with the lack of coverage of accumulated deficits due to exceedances before the specialist services, will, of course, turn out in relation to the county community's desire to provide good services in the future. An accumulated base of 375 million. kr, which is due to over-consumption in specialist health services, will amount to about 10 pst. of the total income of the county of Hordaland following the reform. It is obvious that this deficit should be covered by the operation of secondary schools, public transport, culture, etc., it will have serious consequences for the supply of the county municipality. This is a paradox at a time when everyone is talking about investing in education. It's in the education future lie, it's called. It is a continuous school that has to carry the scales.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1313	Both the notification of the division of tasks and the municipal proposal are clearly characterised by intentions and ambitions for the renewal, modernisation and efficiency of the public sector. The level of ambition of the Government of the public sector may seem impressive. However, in my view, the objectives lack many of the most important instruments, because not in one word does the proposition mention competitive outsourcing as an instrument for improving the efficiency of the public sector. The old-fashioned monopolies in the municipal sector will continue – and this is what is known as modernisation and renewal. While the private sector is constantly shifting and streamlining due to market pressure, public sector service production must continue to live on as a protected monopoly sector, where all operations and services are to be carried out by public employees, protected from any cost and quality-promoting competition. This is going to be a little bit of a renewal. The position of the Sandbeck Committee on public sector postponing competition indicated that there were between 10 and 30 pst. to save purely economically by using competitive outsourcing as an instrument to increase the efficiency of public sector service production. The Sandbeck Committee's conclusion should, of course, arouse great interest and joy at a time when the Government has great ambitions and is looking for instruments to make the public sector more efficient. But what does the Government do? Well, it puts the Sandbeck Committee's report in the middle of a drawer and doesn't care about the report at all, which shows that it's possible to save billions by outsourcing competition. How is this really possible? The government launches an ambitious public sector renewal process but consistently refuses to look at the instruments that are obviously very interesting in this context. A year ago, several workers’ party tops suggested that competition could make sense in the public sector. Then came the promissory statement for 2002, and so it's now completely chemically pure for any word that might suggest that competition might make sense. The government has been pressurised by strong forces in the LO and the Municipal Association to unlock any suggestion that market-related instruments may be appropriate for large parts of public service production. Does anyone really believe that public monopolies and a protected public sector can ever be effective in line with the private sector? No, no, no. But there's one so soon to realize, otherwise it looks dark for the modernisation, efficiency and innovation that the ambitions of the Workers' Party add up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1324	The county councils are characterised as responders and losers after the settlement that has now taken place, that the state will take over the hospitals. What is a little surprising is that the Council of State Tøn believes that the state acquisition and settlement given to the county councils are not a justification for the county councils struggling with a large financial deficit, and one cannot expect compensation in one way or another. The situation of county councils is, as everyone who has participated in that forum knows, that they are totally dependent on state transfers. What the county authorities have done over many years is, in fact, to finance the obligations they have received from the state to make hospital operations as good as possible. This has resulted in a reduction in offers over time in relation to secondary schools and transport. In addition, when you see that this settlement means that loans that you have worked up over time just increase, you can see that there is clearly a deterioration in both the school and the transport services. For my county, which is Finnmark, this is quite marginal. We have small communities that are totally dependent on good transport services. We have built up new bus offers and boat services over a long time, and now it is actually so marginal that we are talking about relocation. The same applies to secondary school. Here we wanted to prevent young people from leaving home when they are 16 years old to go to high school, and so we have added to the branch classes. These branch classes are also at risk of being closed down. As a result, this is a centralisation of secondary school, which means that young people have to leave home in the past. There is a clear deterioration in welfare services for society, and there is also a regionally hostile consequence. The question arises whether this is in fact a continuing ‘traffick’ to decentralize the counties. We now experience people standing on the barricades around the districts and saying, "That's enough." At my discretion, this is simply to reinforce the sense of abstinence. What could be the reason why you're not getting there, that you're not willing to listen to what people are now getting up to say, that's enough? Is one of the perceptions, as it has been said earlier today, that when you hear voices from the county councils, you characterize it as blah, blah? Is this the way you perceive people and the people's speech in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1339	On the radio today, the leaders of the Centre Party say, among other things. that the welfare benefits of people are most affected when the Workers' Party now supports itself to the right. Thus, the Labour Party's policy of investing in school, SFO and kindergartens becomes a mere bluff, is the claim. On the other hand, the centre party has been investing in the municipal economy for all years, we were told. I think it is worth recalling that in the spring of 1998, the Bondevik government posted a growth in municipal income between 1 and 1.25 p.m. The working party did not get an advantage for an increase of NOK 1 billion in addition to that. Then the center, the Right and the Advance Party stood together. Nor in the spring of 1999 did the Bondevik government increase to a greater extent than about 1.25 pst. The Labour Party then announced an increase in the income of the local government sector. It was followed up in the budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre in the autumn of 1999. In the spring of 2000, the Labour Party government raised a total growth of DKK 3.5 to 4 billion – a larger increase than the Centre ever suggested. In the 2001 state budget, we received a growth of about NOK 4 billion. Today, the Government proposes an increase of DKK 3–3.5 billion. Today, the Centre Party and SV are proposing an increase of 4 billion kroner – without any support from any other parties. In addition, the Central Party proposes a 12 billion indebtedness to municipalities – no one supports that proposal. This is unbelievable! Here the Central Party shows that they have moved from the real world to the world of the election campaign. Suddenly, they have 16 billion more to route in opposition than they had 2 1⁄2 years in position – a position they also used to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. The council to sweep for its own door is still valid!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1350	The working party is pleased to have a majority in favour of the continuation of the income system, said the rapporteur in his introduction. The centre party is not in that majority, because we believe that it needs to change the income system in order to make it fairer. The centre party will propose, until then, that the loss compensation be passed on to the municipalities that are losing on the so-called Rattsø model. For Uppland, this applies, inter alia, to: the municipalities of Etnedal, Lom, south-fron, and south-land. It is important that this scheme be continued until the cost key of the income system is changed. If this doesn't happen, it will be dramatic for many municipalities. The centre party therefore invites Stortinget to join proposal No. 44, presented today. When the Rattsø Committee's position on changes in the income system was presented in 1996, we remember that in many municipalities, including workers' party-driven municipalities, there was a crisis in the framework. Then, through exceptional judgement, the compensation scheme came to an end, which was to be stepped up at the same time as the changes in the income system were gradually introduced. 2001 is the last year of the escalation, and the Rattsø compensation means a redistribution of DKK 1.5–2 billion per year. years. The Government has now proposed, and is supported by the Advance Party and the Right, a gradual winding-up of the loss compensation scheme. Based on the examples I mentioned instead, the municipality of Etnedal will lose 1.6 million. And Lom, and the south-fron, and the south-country, shall lose one million. kr. Other changes in the income system are also made to make the total changes slightly different. The results for some municipalities are getting smaller, because others are getting even larger. In order to patch on the worst wounds, the Government has proposed to compensate for losses over 40 kroner per year. is built up in 2002, but there is no further guarantee. Municipalities are completely dependent on long-termity and predictability in their planning work. The municipalities that now lose the loss compensation will be commended for the goodwill of the government and the increase for each budget year. This is unsustainable in the opinion of the Center Party. For district municipalities threatened with relocation, the uncertainty created by the removal of the loss compensation may be the drop that is requested to flow over. Discontinuation and reduction of other welfare services may be the result. Bad municipal economy knows we can push forward municipal aggregation. It's not a desired development as the Center Party sees it, but we heard that the representative Ranveig Frøiland from the Workers' Party thought it was the right way to go. The proposal of the Centre Party will also simplify the very complex income system we have today. It's the most required thing to do here. It was said in a committee hearing the other day that there was only a handful of people who really understood fully this system, and they were apparently found in the KS. This statement I can't do well for, but if that's the case, it's high time to get something done thoroughly with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1363	The approach taken by the majority today, and especially in the case of hospitalization, will affect young people. This will affect secondary school provision in the counties. We can see that. You have to cut out the offer, you have to put down the classes, you have to leave out the ability of the students to get into their first choice. In addition to this, cultural services are provided by county authorities and are not required by law. And there are offers that young people very much appreciate, and that actually – I think – are helping to make everyday life and life worth living. It'll be less of that. It will be less for public transport. Young people need public transport, because they don't necessarily have a car or a driver's license, most of them. So this is a very bad arrangement to make sure young people what they need. And it's not like it's the state's money bin that needs to be filled, and that's why we have to do this. It's the schools that need a lift! That's the way it is in high school. 206 million. kr is missing in order to give all children the opportunity to attend camp schools, excursions and tours, get out of the school room and join something else. But you can't afford that. I wonder why the Workers' Party has so little money for something so important. There is no doubt that having such offers in school in a way is what makes school day exciting. And when you take this away, the students might lose what they appreciate the most. We discussed a proposal from the SV on measures to eliminate child poverty a few days ago, and this was also one of our proposals. And one of the things that shocked me then was that the Workers' Party and also the Christian People's Party thought it was okay that if you were going on a school trip or an excursion and the parents couldn't afford it, you could get another offer at school. The students who then do not have enough money to get away from home to join the trip, they will be left in school when the others leave. What in the world is this kind of view of an equivalent school offer, a school offer that should be free, and which should be modern, good, diverse and rich in a country like Norway? Why is it that the school should be more poor and old-fashioned than shopping malls and gas stations and everything we surround ourselves with privately? It's so little forward! I really wanted the County Council of Gieske to be here today, especially to take care of what is happening to the high schools now after the greedy settlement that remains between the state and county council of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1370	I'd like to start by recording what a lot of people have been busy about, that's the form of a warrant that you now have when the government is going to take over the hospitals. Here there are a lot of people who have spoken and said something about a felt state being greedy, and they have described the situation that very many states will come up with. I want to give some number material, and then from Troms County. There they have a total budget for the regional hospital of 802 million. kr. Now they have to reduce the cost of balancing, and if they're going to make it, they have to cut the cost by 183 million. 2001 kr. That's 23 pst. of the total budget, which will mean that Troms County actually has to permit and cancel everyone added to the hospital in order to balance. I believe, as also the Council of Tøn said, that our county will carry out its ownership as if they were to have hospitals forever. They want a balance, and they don't want hospitals to run out of deficits. But they do. It will, as many have been in it – if Troms is to cut its budget by 183 million. kr, or will wear this into the next year – meaning the closure of the sheds, it will mean zero bet on the collective, it will mean zero gravel on the county roads, which already lack gravel, and there will be a reduced effort on the culture. And this is a situation where one can wonder if a wanted controlled liquidation of the county councils, because they want to sit back with such deficits that they won't make it. So a little bit to what's going on for our heavy drug addicts. In the left, we're going to support Right's proposal that 200 million be set aside. kr. And I refer you to posts from the representative Erna Solberg, whom I thought was very good. Here are the major challenges for Kommune-Noreg to coordinate and cooperate on the efforts of our heavy drug addicts. One needs extra resources, one needs to change the criterion, and one needs to strengthen the social sector. I found it a pity that the Right wasn't involved in securing multiples in the revised national budget, so that we could get 45 million. kr extra, even if the Right and Left agree that one wants to set 20 million. kr for structural measures. But here's one of the big challenges. In the left, we believe that our municipal politicians and local councillors-Noreg want to carry out their tasks in the best possible way, but we get a lot of impressions that it's very problematic with all of the demands we've put on them. I am very pleased with the work started to reduce reporting requirements, ear markings and all these measures. But before one sees the result of all of this, our municipalities actually have to get more funds. Then I finally want to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Left. We are going to support the proposal No. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 16, 20, 21, 31 and 45.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1385	In a previous line change, I took the liberty of bringing in visible political activity outside this house, with a clear address to the Stortinget. The opinion was to draw attention to the concern raised when one in the central party leadership troika makes an action-like push against the bulk of the population and partly towards a total collapse on a very thin and partly absolute basis of failure. This is a kind of party-political protest industry, which the Center Party seems to be moving forward. It can hardly give birth to anything other than political contempt. Then we have the holm corridor on the revised budget. Everyone in this house knows that to achieve something in politics, you do it through long-term work and through the ordinary budgets. One possible technique, of course, is to powder possible majority structures through revision, where an unknown number of minority proposals can be used. Those who don't get a majority are known for free, and then you can sell them, as it is in the media now. This is kind of a part of the same thing, because it can hardly be any particular thing but a politician's contempt when you suddenly, on your way out into the sunshine, you realize so deeply what you should have been doing in the four years, the period you've been on the Stortinget. People out there will hardly realize that one party has two billion for a good purpose, another one billion and a third one and a half, but nothing we can agree on. You might be left with $70 million. kr for a racial protection project, and that is all you can achieve. This is incomprehensible to the voters out there, and that's probably what's meant, I assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1394	There should be no doubt that municipalities should facilitate the establishment of enterprises and jobs. The Progress Party believes that part of the income generated by the corporate tax must be returned to the municipalities, so that the municipalities are more served by the establishment of enterprises. Returning company taxes to municipalities will contribute to providing municipalities with a strong incentive to work with business development, and there will be an added motivation for business development if municipalities are aware of the link between increased business development and increased income. It is important that municipal autonomy be strengthened. Municipalities must be able to control their own revenue and expenditure and to organise their offers in the way they believe that the population benefits the most. At the same time, basic welfare benefits such as health and social services and education need to be ensured to the population, regardless of the local economy. These basic services may be financed by the State, which assumes financial responsibility for them. Local authorities continue to need additional assistance to finance development in the care sector. There is a great need to build more hospitals, because in recent years the focus has been on the construction of nursing homes, which means that there have not been enough hospitals built. The cost of building hospitals has increased considerably in recent years, which has led to the fact that government grants are not sufficient to cover the costs incurred by municipalities in such development. For this reason, it is important that the State grant rate for the construction of nursing homes be increased by NOK 300000 per year. This is a proposal on which the Party of Presidents stands alone. In a line-up between Lodve Solholm from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party Ivar Østberg, Østberg showed an article in the newspaper Nordlys, where it was found that within ten years an airline ticket tour Tromsø-Oslo has increased by 75 pst., and that only 10 pst. This increase is due to increased fees. This is completely wrong. If the representative of Østberg had wanted to read the whole article, it turned out that 10 pst. the increase is due to a fee. Furthermore, if one ignores taxes and taxes, a full price ticket has gone up to 65 pst. in the last 10 years. It is a fact that taxes and charges form a significant part of the ticket sum. Norway is completely at the top of the world with regard to the charging of air tickets. On average, 34 pst is going on. of the ticket price to the treasury. In Europe, the corresponding figure is between 15 pst. and 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1407	I have a question about proposal No. 2, promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. This is a proposal that goes back, I think it has been promoted at least twice before and now is promoted a third time. It's hardly random, it's elections this year. In the local media in East Agder – and there is Arendal – it is suggested that Arendal has a claim of 75 million. kr. It is clear that this is the case in an election campaign. Since I have read about the setting, none of these parties have more discretion than the Workers' Party and the Right. I perceive that these possible legal allocations that the municipalities should have must be taken into account within the framework that is. The proposal correctly states ‘extraordinary means of discretion’, but there are no extraordinary means of discretion in it, as I read it. I would like to ask the representative Torbjørn Andersen the question, since he is a representative from Aust-Agder and sits in the municipal committee, whether my opinion is correct, that the means of discretion given to Arendal will go beyond the other municipalities in the county, or is it the hidden money that I have not managed to find in this setting? I would like an explanation for that. And does the representative Andersen think that it is basically a right way to proceed, that a decision should have retroactive effect? These municipal mergers happened as far as I remember ten years ago. What I cannot understand either – and I would like to have an explanation for that – is whether this amount is 75 million. kr is right. As far as I remember, last year the Municipal Committee overthrew the county and allocated 10 million. kr. So I would like an explanation of this proposal. I think it smells like a little campaign of this. I think one should play with open cards. At least let me get an explanation from Andersen's representative as to whether this will affect the other municipalities in the county. I hope to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1419	I take the floor first of all because I am fiercely frustrated and indignant. I could use more folk, but perhaps not parliamentary expressions, but I shouldn't. I am very frustrated, among other things. The rapporteur, the representative of Odd Eriksen, who says, blah, asks about what is being dealt with here. I think it's serious. It is okay that from this pulpit there is a lot of prestige and formality in relation to what has been said and done last year and years before that, and how devices for the allocation and use of instruments should be and should not be. But what this is primarily about is what we need from resources to provide for those who need it, and who need it the most. This applies, inter alia, to: those who are sick and need care. In this context, the municipal economy is very important, both for the primary municipalities and for the county municipalities. Here is the proposal that some people call an offer – it may now be – but I have not seen any proposals that are contrary either. There are proposals to increase free income. There is a proposal to cancel the county government debt in the form of a deficit, and there is also a proposal for indebtedness in order to correct the economic balance of municipalities. If these proposals had been adopted, it would have had an impact on the situation that many have now faced. Established in the context of state health enterprises, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are determined and show that there will be very poor and hopeless. It has the consequence, as has been said here, that schools, county roads, culture, business development, etc. will be very damaging in the next round. But what's worst and most precarious now is what's going on with our health care system this past six months. And when these proposals that I have referred to now are voted down, I believe that they should have implications for what we are doing tomorrow in relation to the revised national budget. Thorbjørn Jagland has said in another context that something very serious can happen – something very serious can happen to our healthcare system this past six months if we don't do anything now. The county councils seem to have to cut off dramatically. Last night we received a letter from Trom County, which refers to a huge deficit, and concludes that the hospital must close down 50 pst. of all available beds during a three-month period. From Sør-Trøndelag we have been informed of some of the same thing. Røros Hospital shall be closed and closed. The same applies to the occupational health department, which has an important role to play, among other things. preventive health work, not least in the workplace. If we think about what we've been discussing in the Sandman Committee, and how we're going to save money in the health sector, it's just preventive work. This is very dramatic. We must continue to be prestigious here, but I think we are undermining political roles and the reputation of politics in the population. They are primarily concerned that we act in such a way that there is a service offer that is functional and that the help is there when it is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1434	The representative of Solholm was in a line-up with the Council of State in my reply, and he thought it was amazing that on the one hand I could point out that there had been a continuous change in the municipal sector, while I asked that the work on ‘Simplify Norway’ should continue. The point is that not least the Progress Party is asking for more and more measures to be transferred to the State. Today there have been hospitals, schools etc. And it's just the over-control from the state level that has led to all the rules that we should simplify, that would mean a simpler Norway, a work that the Government is following in an affordable way. The representative of Korsberg pointed out that I referred to the North Light of June 7. It's true that air fares have increased by 75 pst. I've read the whole article, and it also points out that only 10 pst. the increase is due to fees. The party of progress spreads myths! I found it very eye-catching what the Council of Tøn said in a line-up on the Rikshospitale, that the background that we had to grant 230 million. kr extra, was that the Rikshospital had not had a real budget. What is at least real is that all the other regional hospitals also need appropriations of this magnitude. I found it very bold by the representative Konglevoll to ask the centre to choose between well-being and the right-hand side when the Workers' Party thus chooses the Advance Party over the centre of this matter. It was pointed out that Labour Party rapporteur Herman Kristoffersen in Tromsø pointed out that the schools were not in order because of previous rule. Herman Kristoffersen has asked the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to support the proposal to use 1 October as a date. It is bold that the representative of Konglevoll makes himself say from this pulpit. Finally, the representative Gunnar Halvorsen wondered if this was a campaign game. No, in this case, the government is making up for things that happened in 1992. Therefore, for the third year in a row, we promote the proposal in terms of compensation, partly to. Arendal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1447	Finally, there's a lot that should have been commented on, let me just focus on a few things. With regard to the last post by the representative of Østberg, I would just like to point out that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have at least invested 200 million. extra kr in the pot of the county municipalities. It's money that the center and the right don't have. They have a formulation that county councils should be able to negotiate with the state, but it can actually result in zero if there are stand-alone negotiations to be put to the bottom. Let me also comment on the criteria for compensating drug use/psychiatry problems that have been suggested by the Right. I would then point out that in the cost key to the municipalities, there was in the past a supplement for the largest cities, justified by high expenditure in the social sector. This was removed on the basis of the investigation carried out by the Rattsø Committee. The selection says the following: ‘The proposal for a new cost key takes more account of the importance of social conditions for estimated expenditure needs in the area of social assistance and child protection. In addition, age and gender-standardised death rates have been included as a separate criterion in the cost key. It is the opinion of the sample that these changes will capture key factors related to the occurrence of the disease and the social sector that were previously foreseen by special supplements.’ In addition, Oslo received partial compensation for the introduction of State corporation tax by establishing its own capital grant. This was precisely justified by the fact that Oslo had specific challenges within, among other things. the health and social sector that was previously financed by relatively high tax revenues compared to the national average. In a lot of ways, the conditions that the right here deals with are kind of taken care of in the income system that we have. But we're also saying that we're going to see how KOSTRA works, whether it's going to be possible to extract data to see if it can help to reduce or compensate for the extra costs associated with these problems. It'll be possible to look at it afterwards. With regard to the climate criterion that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party address, I believe that this has been assessed, and that it has been found inappropriate to introduce. In the case of North Norway, in particular, this type of problem will be addressed through the North Norway grant. Otherwise, it will be difficult to find objective criteria related to climate. In the state of Buskerud, there are, among other things, the coldest and the hottest places measured this year, it may be as called at Røros as in Finnland, and since I am aware, it may be both wet and violent in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1466	The case spokesperson was somewhat hurt in his first post when he said that not all parties supported the Government's arrangement in relation to the state acquisition of the specialist services. He said that those who weren't some, had no alternative, and now he doesn't go out of the way to go anymore and say that in the worst case, the option could mean zero in terms of the county municipalities. Let me make the following clear: for the centre party's part, we actually have a proposal to cover the 1,300 million that we believe there is a basis for claiming that the county councils are in deficit due to expenses with the specialist services. We're disunity in this 57pst bill of the Government. Then we've registered that the Progress Party has brought the Workers' Party to an additional 200 million. NOK, but there's another 329 million gap. kr. We have a proposal that we also made last year, and that's the one-time settlement that the county councils have to make for pensions because of the so-called break point. We're in charge of it. Lodve Solholm used the ‘negotiation’ procedure in relation to the county municipality. I could have liked to ask the Labour Party if they think, like Lodve Solholm, that this is where negotiations are going. As I understand it, it is precisely negotiations with the individual county council that have been rejected. The situation of the Central Party in the Government and outside the Government has been commented on by several. Here are strong words about our arrangement. In fact, when it was in force in 1999 and 2000, I thought there was a common recognition in the Stortinget that it was a special year to create a budget for – first in 1998 and then in 1999. In 1998, both the Norwegian and foreign economies were unbalanced. There was no addition in almost any field. One managed to do it anyway. The starting point for the Bondevik government was to cut $9 billion. We were able to cut 8, and we actually managed to cut within it for some improvement to the municipalities. We never allowed ourselves to hide that we might have thought of making suggestions about more, but the situation in the Norwegian economy did not mean that it was possible. The working party is now doing something completely different. They promise cheaper kindergarten, better schooling, cheaper and better SFO without the municipalities seeing the corresponding funds again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1483	The North Norway grant is an important element of the Labour Party's regional and regional policy. This grant to municipalities and county councils in Northern Norway was established, among others. to cover some of the additional costs arising from long distances, climate, time of darkness, etc. The distance between different functions as a result of scattered housing costs a lot, but I record that this is not perceived by everyone. For example, I have heard arguments such as: that the northern part of the country has better toy coverage than the rest of the country. So it's just heads that count and not kilometers. Such statements show that distances are hard to understand. I have noticed that the Progress Party is also going into this year to wind up the North Norway grant, but in a somewhat nicer wrap than last year. Last year, the Progress Party said that they would wind up the North Norway grant to speed up the relocation from smaller places. They would have bigger and more powerful units, the reason was. Last Monday, the Stortinget dealt with the notification of regional and regional policy, and in this context, the Progress Party used the term ‘peripheral strike’. What the Progress Party really means by «peripheral strike» in this context, I am still uncertain about, but the representative Torbjørn Andersen made clear at least that Tromsø city did not come under the term. But it seemed as if he was something in doubt about that too. We can all see that the Progress Party does not have much to do with the districts of this country. Does not the Progress Party see the importance of the enormous value creation and the potential of the districts? Does not the party see the quality of the good housing and growing conditions for the children in the districts? Does not the Progress Party see that maintaining housing and activities in the districts is also of the utmost importance for the existence of cities? In short, what makes the Progress Party have such a negative view of Building Norway? I record that the Right refers to the North Norway grant as a ‘construction that is primarily politically determined’. I also record that the Right does not agree with the proposal to adjust the price of the Nord-Norway grant, but instead will place this important grant for the municipalities of Nord-Norway into the overall framework and distribute it to all municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1496	The representative of Gunnar Halvorsen raised a specific question concerning the municipalities of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik – that they were individually merged with other municipalities in 1991, and that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party in committee have agreed that these municipalities should be compensated for the loss of basic subsidies. In 1991, the municipalities in question only kept the basic subsidy for two years. This was immediately changed to apply for five years. We all know that these municipalities, especially Arendal, got into serious problems. They broke for many years – they have worn for ten years after that merger. I have assessed it so that it would be unfair if these municipalities did not get the same thing as the municipalities that were merged later – it is actually ten years ago. If we mean something by bringing together municipalities – there are many who have called for a new municipal structure in Norway and who believe that there are too many municipalities – we must not penalise the municipalities financially in the way it was done in Arendal. However, on the part of the proposers, this proposal is that the government should place this money on the table next year as fresh money. So it's not about taking from any existing discretionary pots. Maybe it's about 200 million. kr. In fact, the assumption is that it is not to be taken from other municipalities, but the government is going to add this money to the table next year. This was supposed to be the answer to the representative's question. We'll see if he's satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1509	Several representatives have been involved in the settlement of the hospital reform, and I think it is necessary to say something more about it. First of all, the government's grip is an attempt to enable the county councils to take care of the tasks that remain after the hospitals are transferred to the state, and we do that, as we know, by allowing the total extraction from the county municipalities to be 800 million. kr less than the costs incurred by counties in hospitals, i.e. they retain 800 million. kr more than they really should have had. We give the county councils a real growth in the free income of between 300 and 400 million. kr. We give them an extra grant for holiday money of NOK 2.3 billion, and no county councils will get a greater loss than about NOK 40 per person. integrates next year as a result of changes in the income system and the hospital reform. In addition, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party ensure that it will be 200 million. kr to the counties, which are of course subject to discretion. I distance myself from the presentation given to this pulpit from several parties that this plus the municipal structure that will now be adopted here tonight would lead to zero dollars to roads, zero to business development, zero to public transport, zero to culture, and that it would also be district hostile. I have heard a lot over many years in the policy of how bad it is in both municipalities and counties. I am aware that there are still challenges, especially in some county municipalities and also in some municipalities, but to stand on this pulpit and present it as if it were going to be zero kroner for everything in the county municipality, I have to take a strong distance from. I think it's a good municipality that's going to be adopted here tonight, and it's better than it's been in very many years. The municipal structure that was adopted for the current year was better than it has been for many years, and the municipal structure that will be adopted here in the hall tonight will be even better than that. Then I feel the need for a comment to the Center Party. I think the Central Party is using quite strong words about the municipal structure that is now being presented and that will be adopted here tonight. So the Central Party proposes a real growth of NOK 7–7.5 billion, i.e. more than twice as much as the Government has proposed. Several speakers have said that, but I find reason to repeat it: when the Senterpartiet sailed in government, with the representative Meltveit Kleppa as Social Minister, Odd Roger Enoxsen as Municipal Minister and Gudmund Restad as Minister of Finance, they presented a municipal settlement of DKK 2 to 2.5 billion for 1999 and DKK 2.5 billion for 2000. In addition, the share of free revenues was significantly lower than in the schedule both for this year and for what will be adopted for the next year. I also remember that it was in the years 1998 and 1999, while the Central Party was in government, that the economy of the municipal sector became unbalanced, with a large increase in deficits and impaired operating results. Then I think it is quite straightforward to use such strong words about our arrangement and say that there is no money for, among other things. cheaper kindergartens – because it is!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1522	Since it's probably the last time I'm on this pulpit, I'm going to bring a little heart attack. If it is not possible to find better arrangements to cover the over-consumption of very many of our hospitals, one will put in action saving measures, measures that will go beyond patient treatment. The queues will increase. Will we then, when the election takes off, feel that politicians from this house will swing the whip over the county because of these cuts? And will we experience the same thing that we experienced last year, that a central health politician from this house directly encourages the detachments at hospitals in Hordaland to give the bluff in the budget – excuse the expression – a brilliant steering signal in which there was much help, you ask me.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1529	I got provoked by two articles. One was from Bendiks Arnesen, who is completely wrong. There is nothing in the setting that we intend to spread the North Norway grant to everything else. On the other hand, when it comes to the extraordinary loss compensation granted to Finnmark, it says that we would rather add it to the discretionary pot and benefits. We find it unreasonable to make a new extraordinary, lasting loss compensation for Finnmark. But that's a pretty small amount that's talking about in the big context. When we have said that the North Norway grant is a political ‘construction’, it is among other things. because it is clearly stated that it is not based on objective criteria but on a desire to have a better service level in Northern Norway than in the rest of the country, it is motivated by district policy. It's in the setting. We really disagree with that, but we think there are some problems related to the expenditure structure in North Norway, among other things. the climate problems, which may well justify the existence of such a grant. That's why we didn't want to remove the North Norway grant. But there's something different than what Bendiks Arnesen said in his post. Then there was a rush/psychiatry. Now I heard the case rapporteur make a statement that was similar to what we received in writing from the department a few times when I proposed this. That's one of the reasons why, unlike the majority, I have zero belief that the department is going to re-examine things, because that's the answer we've been given in recent years. The removal of the major urban grant in the context of Rattsø II pointed out that there were three to four different factors that would remain under investigation in terms of weights and criteria. It did a whole committee. They were referring to population criteria, and they were referring to drugs/psychiatry. In 1996, the size was not satisfied with the inclusion of drugs and psychiatry when we introduced Rattsø. What has happened has been an obstruction in getting something on the table about this – all the way through. Then you can share responsibility for this between the two governments that have been sitting, but you haven't wanted to address this one problem. I understand that it is technically difficult, but it is not more technically difficult than that one can with a certain degree of imagination, at least if one wants to incorporate the housing criteria, also take into account that, among other things. through the proposal we have put forward. In fact, it was agreed as a compromise when the introduction of the Rattsø gave a balance between the changes in the different types of municipalities. What is happening now is that the introduction of the new housing criteria completely alters that growth. This means, for example: that a municipality like Bergen no longer wins a crown on Rattsø – or maybe 17 kroner in the end. But in relation to what they originally expected, they're winning about nothing on the conversion that's going on. The mountain will still be a 90 pst.-municipality, Trondheim is about in the same situation. That's what we think is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1540	Ivar Østberg said in a reply when we had a small discussion about the flight prices between Oslo and Tromsø, that the Progress Party ‘is spreading myths’. There are, of course, many ways a myth can arise. I can refer to a bit of what is stated in the newspaper Nordlys on 7 June: “Only ten percent of the price increase comes from fees” – not fees. It says ‘fees’ in the text, and if you read the whole article, it is possible to see that the level of taxation and charges on air prices is decisive. Let me quote a little bit more from the same article: ‘Norway is at the very top in terms of fares for air tickets. On average, 34 per cent of the ticket price goes to the state treasury in Norway. In Europe, the corresponding level is between 15 and 20 %.’» And on the other hand, «And the State shall have its seat tax, ticket tax and environmental tax. In addition, the country shall have both VAT and investment taxes and taxes levied for the sale of food, equipment and fuel. In total, SAS paid more than SEK 2.4 billion in taxes out of its passenger revenues of just over 7.7 billion in Norway in 1999.’» This clearly tells us that there are taxes and charges that cause the high price of tickets between the north and the south of the country. If the Christian People's Party and the representative Ivar Østberg really want lower ticket prices, they must be there and take care of it when we deal with the budget here on the Stortinget. Then I want to comment a little bit on what Bendiks H. Arnesen was into about the North Norway grant and the criteria for having it. We believe that we should not have such a grant, and want to liquidate it. We see no reason to have a distortion of competition between the parts of the country based on the criteria that Bendiks H. Arnesen had in mind. We want lower taxes and taxes in order to ensure the value creation that takes place in rural areas, and to focus more on transport and measures that can enable business to flourish in that part of the country as well. It is true that when Tromsø sports teams play football up in Tromsø, they start on the exact same score as the other teams in the elite series do. Sometimes you might want them to have some extra points, but we like to compete on equal terms. The same should also apply to the municipalities, the counties and the business community. If Bendiks H. Arnesen wants to help businesses and municipalities in Northern Norway, the most important thing is to provide lower taxes and taxes, and above all to reduce the price of diesel and petrol.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1563	It was Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative who got me to take the floor. I shall also give an explanation of vote if the time is running out. It's sad that Bendiks H. Arnesen didn't want to read everything so he could see our whole-hearted policy. We have a different model for the overall community layout. We have a different model of district policy than the Labour Party adds. We want the state to take over the financial responsibility for health, care and education. Then the basis for the North Norway bill falls away. We've even been so kind that we're willing to remove it over four years. And with the other system, we can actually remove the charge in one year, because that shows the takeover of the specialist service that we can do. Of course we see the value of the districts, of course we see the value of North Norway, but we have another model, which we think can be better, that is, as I have said many times, many times from this pulpit: let the values stay where they are created! We can only see what has been the result of the Workers' Party's policies, and not least of the Centre's policies – large relocations, closures of barricades, closures of other services, closures of workplaces, road projects are not being built, and I could mention even more. Our approach, with a government takeover of finances when it comes to health, care and schooling, with an extensive investment on the road and with a tax policy that makes it easier for businesses and allows them to continue where they are, will be with and strengthen the districts, I'm overestimated. So to something else: in our comments in this setting, we have said that with a misguided policy, it is young and old who suffers from the fact that the municipalities may have too little money. Then we are willing – and it is also stated in our remarks on the state budget of the autumn – to consider whether to enter into an increased framework in order to ensure that the supply of young and old people is not poorer, but better than it is. I have the impression that maybe Arnesen's post was more like an election campaign post. If there wasn't an election campaign speech, he should be voting on the proposal from the Progress Party to increase the stakes for the health home site development by NOK 300,000. That would boost the municipal economy next year by $1.8 billion. He should take the opportunity tomorrow to vote in favour of the proposal from the Progress Party to increase his resources in the hospital sector by NOK 1.2 billion. Then Arnesen shows that he's on the side of the municipalities – the cities he's just going to talk to. So a little explanation of vote: we will now, when our proposal No. 19 may fall, vote in favour of proposal No. 16 and then to go on proposal No. 22nd@item: inlistbox We see that SV's proposal, No. 40, contains something of the same thing as we have said when it comes to this with the care reform, so we will also vote for it. We shall vote in favour of I and II and against III in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1580	The representative Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1583	It's a theme that has been absent, but that we should have talked more about. There is a need for relief and care measures for children with mental health problems. Very many are in line – and they are in line for a long time. It is hoped that they will receive treatment more quickly, but both pending and in addition to treatment, these children and these families need relief and care measures. I can't see that there's room for it in this budget, and I think that's pretty bad. This is a group that really needed our solidarity and our helping hand. And then I'm going to go home to Hedmark and tell the Council's party colleagues who are now in the county and believe that this year they have to put down adult psychiatry and four high schools, that they've got a good settlement, that they don't really understand what they're doing, and that of course they can't count either. But I expect that the Council of State can help them with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1590	The representative of Østberg has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1594	The starting point was that the representative Torbjørn Andersen praised competition and that it would lead to lower prices. I would like to refer to the article in Nordlys on 7 June – I have read the whole article – where it says: «Aside from taxes and charges, a full price ticket has risen 65 per cent in the last 10 years. On average, ticket prices — excluding taxes and taxes — have had a price increase of 65 per cent domestically in Norway.’ In addition, it says: ‘Flying prices have increased 75 % – charges only 10 %’ I stand by my claim that the Progress Party spreads myths that it is the fees that give the high prices and not the competitive situation, because it has had between the airlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1609	The time for the morning meeting is up. The President will propose that the meeting on case No be continued. 1 is done. - It's a note. Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has held the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1614	There is a difference between the central government and now, and there is a consultation arrangement with KS. Those who use expressions such as blue, blue, customs, and roughly $4 billion more for the municipal sector, even without being clubbed down, show an unexpected arrogance towards their local authorities' own organisation, which has also shown that there is currently an imbalance between the tasks assigned to them and the resources at their disposal. It is also said from KS that the efficiency expected from the Government can be 85 pst. by the municipalities not implemented. There is also arrogance towards the provision of children and young people, who, in spite of their promises in the Workers' Party, are in fact at risk of experiencing cutbacks to the fall. This says the municipalities. It also applies to those awaiting psychiatric reform. Finally, let me refer to pages 19 and 20 of the setting when it applies to the health sector. It says why the minority is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1623	I respect that there is disagreement as to whether the framework is large enough or not, and that we can have a different view of it. I think the commitment, also from the representative Karin Andersen, is good, but I actually expect some honesty. I have to say that it is not fair when the representative Karin Andersen stands here and says that I should be able to go home to Hedmark or go elsewhere and lay down adult psychiatry or other things. Firstly, these are debates and decisions which must be taken in Hedmark County and in other counties. Secondly, I insist that the municipal structure we have submitted for the next year is good, and that it is better than it has been for many years for the counties and municipalities. This does not mean that I am not aware that there are still challenges both in some municipalities and in some counties. But then I am also very happy that the Progress Party is involved in ensuring that we have 200 million. kr more for distribution in the discretionary court to the county councils in the most difficult situation. So it's no use standing here, as the representative Karin Andersen has done in previous speeches today, saying that the arrangement that is now being adopted means a guided winding-up of the county council, or that there must be a clear signal or a connection to anything from our side. Otherwise, I must also tell the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, to close that debate, that it is within a billion kroner to kindergartens for next year, to build 10,000 new kindergartens and to get cheaper kindergartens. It will also be adopted tomorrow, as the representative is aware, appropriations for the current year for kindergartens, so that parental payments can be reduced as early as August. For the municipal sector, this is a testament to whether this actually means that we get more and cheaper kindergartens. I hope and believe that we will achieve this through the good consultations that we have with the local authorities through the Municipalities' Central Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-06-14.ana.ud1934e1632	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then there will be a break in the negotiations. [[Footing, see page 3930]] New meeting starts at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
