ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e32	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Reidun Gravdahl, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Heidi Sørensen from 11 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Akhtar Chaudhry, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e55	Akhtar Chaudhry is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e69	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the parties as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e80	Albert Einstein once said about knowledge: knowledge is nothing, imagination is everything. It's about knowledge passing the imagination. Only then is knowledge worth something. – We should remember this at a time of comparative studies, comparing knowledge and skills for school students, then making a ranked list between different countries. The studies, which cover only parts of the curriculum, are then used for the most imaginative suggestions. Not to be misunderstood: we will take the results of the studies seriously. We're going to make changes to those parts of the training where we don't reach the objectives of the curricula. But this type of study must not cause us to doubt our own choices and our own priorities. We have a training system that has different and also many objectives. In the general curriculum, the visions are drawn up. These are common to the whole course of education. The aim of the training is to extend the ability of children, young people and adults to recognise and experience, to experience, to unfold and to participate. The general curriculum has chapters with titles such as the mind-seeking man, the creative man, the working man, the general man, the environmentally conscious man and the integrated man. This is the goal of the school, whether more or less, to provide training adapted to the individual's abilities and assumptions. This school shall provide expertise building on the various objectives. This knowledge, in combination with attitudes, shall create skills needed in a rapidly changing society. We have to be able to hold on to the different goals at a time when comparative studies can easily distort the focus of the entire curriculum, so that we relate only to partial goals. To avoid any doubt, we should not be satisfied as long as large groups read and write too poorly when they leave primary school. We're going to do something about this, not because we're going to be in the middle of the list where the countries are ranked by results, but because we want a school where everyone gets a training offer adapted to their own abilities and assumptions, a school where everyone goes, a school where we don't have segregation. If we do that, more people will now satisfy the level regardless of who we would like to compare with. The Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority in its present position. As committee leader, I would like to pay tribute to an overall committee for the work that has been done. After various attempts and different negotiation solutions, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre were finally formed, which is behind the majority position. I assume that the minority itself will justify its proposals. By the way, there is reason to note that both the majority and the minority are making changes to the Government's proposals. The majority re-prioritizes approx. 222 million. kr, while the minority re-prioritises a little bit less. The majority is a somewhat unusual constellation. We recognise that when we started the negotiations, we agreed on what was to be given priority, and that we should limit what was to be given priority. All the parties behind the majority voting promised to increase the proportion of scholarships and to increase the cost standard as we addressed the notification of reforms in higher education. This communication will be discussed in June this year. The grant fee was up to 40 pst. It's actually about our credibility as politicians. This reform, this increase in the grant rate from 30 pst. Forty pst., it would cost a lot, and it would require more large cuts. The majority of the constellation agreed to protect primary, secondary, tertiary and university schools. Moreover, it was not appropriate to cut appropriations for private colleges and private schools. We have now received a grant of 40 pst. from 1 November next year. We've got this in place once and for all. For us, this is an important victory, because we have had this on the programme as a political matter for many years. Once we get 40 pst. student participation, we can address the other parts of the reform that relate to higher education. We can address the improvement of the study environment, the closer follow-up of the students, the increased funds for organisation, all of what we have called the quality reform in the past. I would like to stress that the grant share and cost standard are part of the quality reform, but once we have it in place, we can address the other parts of the quality reform. By 40 pst. we also remove today's system of a special grant for students in the higher education school who are over 19 years old. They will receive support as other students with a grant of 40 pst. The majority in Size defined in a separate note in the St.meld setting. No 27 for the 2000-2001 national higher education year of the same length as other years of study. This is the basis for the option's comments. The majority have found room for addition to United World College. In the review of the revised budget this year, the College received an increase for the current year to compensate, among other things, for this. for increased teacher pay. The majority acknowledge that the compensation must be continued, therefore this addition. I would like to stress that we need to clarify the financial responsibility of this educational institution. The Ministry should therefore carry out an overall review with the other Nordic countries with grants in order to obtain permanent and predictable funding. We're adding 1 million. kr extra to Oslo Domkirke. We do that to cover the different national functions that this church has. Cuts our screens education. The only cut that affects education goes on national lines. There will be some lower subsidies on landlines compared to the current year’s grant. But there are crocodile tears when those who want to cut off the landlines, the government parties and the government, now cry that we have taken away a few million dollars. The Government proposed to cut the entire grant. The size left it back again. We still think it can be reduced somewhat. We're protecting the cost-intensive lines and lines that matter nationally. I register that parties that have accused SV of not wanting to take responsibility, now accuse us of running away from our promises. We've been told that the compromise means we don't get everything. We recognize that as long as we don't have a clean majority, this is our reality. For us, the scholarship rate was so important that we chose to prioritize it, even though the consequences are cut in areas we would like to protect. However, it becomes pathetic when the party here on the Grand Council, which has had such an influence, according to them, that they hardly know what to use the power for, in a statement from the National Government, claims that the students are the losers. We have chosen to listen to the student organisations and also not least to our own promises. I would like to remind you that something was done about the scholarship share four years ago. Then it was lifted up to 30 pst. At the same time, the government promised that the proportion would be up to 40 pst. during the four-year period. If I do not remember correctly, the goal was also laid down in the so-called Lightebu statement at the time. Of course, the Sem declaration doesn't have to get the same fate, but we still chose to say that now is the time, that's when we're going to take hold, that's when we're going to take the promise to secure this reform. The size has previously adopted a research escalation plan. During 2005, it shall rise to the average OECD level. There's been a cut in nutrient research. I regret that the majority has not been able to find the money to correct this bias. We have also removed a well-functioning scheme, a grant scheme to stimulate research efforts in private business. Now we're going to put in place a tax incentive scheme. I think that the best model – and we have now received many signals from business – would be a direct grant scheme, perhaps in combination with tax incentives. I wish the government would look at it once more and possibly come back to Stortinget with a grant model. In this proposal, we use funds for scholarship positions and equipment. This fund was a basic research fund which should not initially be used to finance the institutions. Once it's done that way, I'd like to ask the Government and the Department – when they're going to distribute the grant, the 100 million. kr proposed for equipment — also to be seen at the scientific colleges, so that they do not fall away. We have some science colleges that can easily fall outside if one channelles equipment only into universities. In other words, one should be aware that the scientific colleges can easily fall into this distribution process. We know that there is a new model of funding for universities and colleges. In general, it's a cementation of today's model, and we have to be very observant that we don't cement differences that we don't want to cement. Therefore, there is reason to see whether this model takes sufficient account of colleges that do not have professional training. Therefore, the Ministry must follow developments and carry out a continuous evaluation of the new model. I am also pleased that a joint committee is now behind our proposal to ask the Government to come back with a proposal for any legislative change that guarantees free primary school – that there will be a real situation. We know today that you pay a lot of bills, over 200 million. kr is the last registrations. We also know that the parental reaction «Child does not get in reprise» was concerned with self-payment. It is now up to the government to come back with a proposal that closes the hole that had to be in our training law. Let me also comment on some of the other cuts that have been made. The majority have applied a cut to the Ministry and the education directors. The majority are aware that the department is facing a major reorganization to look at the entire central education administration, so we will leave it open to the ministry that if the cut that has been made — almost 5 million. kr in the department and 3 million. kr on the education directors – may be carried out in other ways or they will propose other ways of distributing this cut, it would be natural for the department to take it up in the context of the revision. We have no strong and clear feelings that it is where the cut should be taken, what we have put in, so it is up to the department to come back with any other proposals, seen in the context of the revision of the state education administration that is going on. We make a cut on the Church, and redistribute part of the funds proposed to the Church. The majority answer is to use a greater share of the earnings of the Information Society's Fund for the financing of the Church and through the redistribution of the various items ensuring the number of new performances and a number of new slide shows. We think that's a good solution. We think that's the best solution. Moreover, it will also ensure predictability, we believe, in the future, when one can use these funds to finance the Church. We also believe that the Church would say that there is a reasonable way to use the returns of these funds. So a little bit of clarification. On page 26 of our position, it says that we're going to grant 2 million. a special measure. We will make it clear that this is not a new allocation. That's that 2 million. kr that lies in the proposal of the Ministry, which we are addressing a particular measure. The majority, therefore, want to give priority to one specific measure. So finally, I refer to the proposal that has been distributed where we ask the Government to allocate the increase in the appropriations for private colleges as a percentage of today's grant scheme. We understand that some cost standards have been introduced, but it's unclear what that is, so when we don't know what it is, the distribution should be made in accordance with today's grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e135	The President understood that the representative took up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e138	That's what I was trying to do, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e143	The representative, Mr Rikvam, then mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e148	In the election campaign, all of Norway was warned not to vote for a non-socialist government that needed support from the Progress Party. In the committee, the government parties and the Progress Party did not agree, simply because we did not agree politically. But it's clear that campaigning and what happens after the election campaign are two very different things. As the representative Rikvam Sjål said, there is a difference between imagination and reality. For not only did SV coexist with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party – it must be very special for SV to systematically break almost every education policy promise they made in the election campaign, just to make themselves at ease with the Advance Party. This political Kuvending has little to do with the credibility of the politicians that the representative Reikvam spoke about. SV promised in the election campaign that no conversion scheme for scholarships would be put in place until the quality reform in higher education had been implemented. Rikham did not say one word about this conversion scheme in his post, because it is a backside of the scholarship medal he would rather not talk about. SV promised expensive and sacred to bet on the construction of several student homes because there is a great need. Yeah, that's right. But then why are the U.S. 26 million here? kr of the budget committed for next year? SV promised in the election campaign expensive and sacred to put children and young people first. And then it's turned out to be different. So SV is going to be equal to 12.8 million. kr for language training for minority students in primary school. Then my question becomes Rolf Reikvam: How can the SV on the one hand, in the election campaign, talk so much about the things I just mentioned, and when the election campaign is over and the budget is going to snow out together, find together with those called the wickerings in the election campaign, and get an unsocial profile on the government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e161	Let me first make it clear that the limits of our area are not what we adopt. Those who define the framework are unfortunately other parties in this room, so we have chosen to deal with the framework that the Storting has put before our committee. Within those frameworks, we chose to prioritise, and we chose to prioritise some of what we have promised clearly and clearly, namely an increased grant share – one of the things that was at the top of our political agenda. And we're able to fulfill a promise, we're able to get some of the things we've promised the most clearly and clearly, namely 40 pst. scholarship share. Then someone has set some framework for us that makes us unfortunately not able to do everything else. That means we had to do some cut. But as I said, we've protected everything that has to do with education, with the exception of what goes on subsidies to country lines, what the government parties wanted to remove completely, we've taken a little bit of that. In addition to that, we have protected everything that has to do with education, and that was an important matter for us. What we had with the Progress Party was 40 pst. scholarship share. That was the starting point, and that's what we could do within this framework. We've also added a conversion rule. We don't want to convert – that's absolutely right. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party wanted full conversion. The compromise was 25 pst. That means that nominally, after this change, the students get as much as they did before. So they get the same payment as scholarships when they start in the studies, and then they have to pay 15 pst. are being converted. I think we've achieved quite a lot in these negotiations with the starting point that the different parties had, but of course I wish we didn't have a conversion; I think it's the very, very best model. But despite this, it was acceptable for us with this conversion model, which we then went into.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e172	It is so that when the Stortinge today deals with the budget for Framework Area 17 so to speak as a sort of exam, our school system is actually at the same time up to exams out in the real world. We also get one feedback after another that the public monopoly school is cancelling the exam. What is as important as the figures contained in a budget for the coming years are also the structural proposals and comments relating to the structure which can be entered in a budget and which can guide years in the future. And my question to the alliance partner from SV about the next year's framework goes into the structural area. In view of the fact that we now have fresh examples of the closure of the public monopoly school, which does not produce good enough results, will the SV representative continue to doubt that the best solution is that the public is the monopoly operator of the school facility in Norway? Or will the representative from SV also be involved in increasing the framework, letting go of other school drivers, open to other views, and that other actors and other drivers can bring in development and better results in Norwegian school – short and well do something with the legislation, as we have seen in our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, with good results? In fact, it is worth noting that Sweden is significantly better off than Norway in the OECD statistics that have now been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e179	Arne Sortevik used the term'monopoly school'. What he's putting into it is a little unclear to me, but at least the public doesn't have a monopoly on education. We have private schools, we have a private school law that allows other actors to run schools – with good grant schemes. If we compare ourselves with other countries in Europe, those grant schemes are very, very good, perhaps too good. What is most important to us is to secure the public common school, the common school as a meeting place for all children in a community. That's where they're going to meet, that's where they're going to be broken on their positions, that's where they're going to be challenged on their positions, and that's where they're going to get knowledge. It must be the common meeting place for which we are going to fight hard and defend hard: the common public school. But then we want diversity in public school. We would like to have wide variations, that public schools should have different offers and different pedagogics. And we know that today. There is a great diversity in public schools. We're going to make that happen, and we're going to stimulate it. We have tried several times to propose ear-marked drugs to stimulate diversity, to be given to schools that will test new methods, etc. That's why we want diversity, we want to stimulate diversity, but it's important to take care of the common public school. Because we believe in it, and we are absolutely sure that it is the best option. So finally, I tried initially to say a little bit about the comparative studies. We have to be clear that our curricula have different goals. Now, what we've measured and compared with is just part of the curriculum. We have to be able to focus on the entire curriculum. If we do, I feel confident that we have a good public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e190	The chairperson of the Committee was committed to acting as a credible politician, thus justifying the increase in the grant rate. But in the next sentence, the representative claims that the government parties have not been involved in the landlines. Everyone in this Chamber knows that the government parties put in place the proposal on landlines in relation to the financial situation, and they have also made sure that all the money is in place in the draft budget. I do not think there is any particular credibility on the part of the committee leader when he uses the kind of rhetoric that he is doing here. So the committee leader also points out that he has been against the conversion model that has been. And that's absolutely right. I would like to quote from a comment made by SV in connection with the quality reform: ‘This member strongly opposes such a scale-based scholarship model and refers to its comments on the study funding. This member emphasises that if such a grant model is introduced in some form, this must only be done after the quality of the study has improved through new forms of evaluation and learning.’;» Since the autumn of 2002, are these new forms of evaluation and learning not in place? Is this credible on the SV's side? And finally, I'm also wondering if we've got a head of the church committee, because Rikvam says that the government of spring must come back with funds from the Information Society's fund because this will provide better predictability in the financing of church activities. Does the head of the church committee think that own money from the church is more predictable than government funding? Is this SV's church policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e205	The representative Arne Lyngstad concluded his speech with the words ‘own money from the Church’. Who is the property of the Information Society's fund, we may disagree – whether this is the Church's property or the State's property. And I don't think we should take that debate right now. It is a fund at the disposal, a fund that gives yield, that should be usable, and should be usable, for church purposes. We are concerned that the Church has and gets good working conditions. We believe and believe that increased use of the proceeds from the fund for church purposes must be of interest and of importance both for the Church and for the Christian People's Party. The government proposed to cut landlines. It's there as a fact. Removing all grants was the government's starting point. It says so indisputably. The fact that a majority here at Stortinget, and eventually also a unanimous increase, decided to put the money back and earmark them in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research budgets, we can discuss who should have the credit for, but the majority of the population at least did so. Then we've decided that some of these means can be used for other things, but we're quite clear which parts of these landlines are to be protected and protected, precisely because they have a special function and are particularly costly. As I said, in the case of the conversion scheme for the grant share, it is not our primary position – clearly not. We wanted a zero conversion. It was not possible to do that. We still chose to say that to achieve the goal of 40 pst. And getting it in place is so important that we have to choose that compromise, because we see that we don't get a majority for our model, because there we are alone. And in this case we chose the compromise, and we got 40 pst. in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e219	Education policy is about making dreams a reality. It's about making sure that new knowledge and knowledge develop. It is about ensuring that the welfare state is provided with competent personnel. But most of all, it's about giving individuals a chance to reach out for their goals, realise their potential and realize their dreams for the future. The fight for a good school is to be conducted across all policy lines. The question is whether we, as politicians, are able to do this. After this budget round, and having noticed the playoffs of the new government in the school area, I have to say that I'm meant to be. Again, more rematches are being announced, such as: plus or minus one year at school, amendment of the private school law and new debate on the organisation of higher education. The result of this could quickly be a trenche debate, with the consequence that the principle debate overshadows the practical one. As politicians, we must take a roof and try to avoid this, so that the debate on quality in school does not drown in ideological frontlines. The State budget is a place where the parties show their priorities. The Bondevik II government has cut in the framework of nearly half a billion DKK and priority increase to private colleges and performances, at the expense of school books for students and higher scholarships for students. The Minister of Finance referred to this as a budget proposal which prioritises tax relief. Yes, I would agree with that. When, in the course of the negotiations within the framework of the KUF, the government parties went to the drastic step of changing their own budget by 68 million. kr by re-prioritising most of these funds for private purposes; yes, a question has to be asked. Not only has the State Council been instructed by Stortinget in relation to its own budget, but we also see that the government parties have not been satisfied with the Council's proposals to the State budget. The majority of the Committee has also made it clear what priority should be given. Indeed, it cannot be shown through such an alliance. A pillar in a fair school is that it's free. As a result, the Workers' Party has been very critical of prostheses. And here, the government deserves praise for continuing the Stoltenberg government's proposal to cover excesses for camp school. But the lending scheme for textbooks in high school is an important contribution to a free school, and this scheme removes as is known to the Government. I understand that the student organisations feel led by the government. On the other hand, right-wing Jan Tore Sanner claims that ‘the working party has acted with great irresponsibility in the Kuf budget’. The contrast to the world out there could not have been greater if we looked at the strong reactions of the student and student organisations on 19 November. The cut in the rental scheme is implemented without the Government providing an alternative, under the justification that it is to be investigated. The high cost of schoolbooks is a fact that we don't need to investigate. This has actually been a matter in Stortinget since 1995. International studies have recently given us a picture of Norwegian students who have insufficient knowledge of Norwegian, natural sciences and mathematics. And we know that reading and writing problems are a problem, as the Council of State has also pointed out. It should be taken seriously that several more have become worse, but at the same time we must also have the ability to bring out the positive with the Norwegian school. Norwegian school is good, but can and must get better. We also have to take into account that in a study that was published some time ago, it was found that over 70 pst. by the asked parents were satisfied with the school in the community. School-Norway has many pages. It's a big challenge, but we can't draw a one-sided negative image. The quality debate must be based on the reality of children and young people. Many students come to school with great knowledge and skills, trained in using new media and new technologies. But still this does not apply to all the students. We also know that the pressure of expectation from society has grown. Students face increasing pressures to realize themselves in new ways. We know that everyone is looking for the answer to what you're going to be, but also who you're going to be. We know that the needs are diverse. That's why it's also important that we have a good public school that captures everyone. We have to get better at using the opportunities in school to organize the teaching for the individual. One of the main principles of the Workers' Party is to provide pupils with appropriate and good training. If all students are to be guaranteed an equivalent education, we have to meet them differently. It is important to remember that there is a good deal of development work at school, both in terms of content and working methods, for example: in the field of pedagogy. The teacher is at the heart of this work, and therefore there are also great demands and expectations for the forthcoming report on teacher training. As part of the quality work, the Stoltenberg government proposed to change the central part of the exam at primary school. As stated in the majority’s comment, this implies a reorganisation, not the removal of the examination. Of course, the evaluation of the examination shall continue to be carried out in accordance with centrally established objective criteria. The majority's proposal involves getting more out of each crown used for the exam, so that we can concentrate resources on what we think can be the core of learning, that is. education. The majority of the Committee and the Workers' Party would rather be more effective than cutting the quality of education. The fact that Secretary of State Haugstad interprets it to you that this will weaken students' legal certainty makes me wonder if he's ever been with us in an hour. I hope the Council of State has done that. In the wake of the international surveys, the Clemet Council of State has often repeated that Norway is at the top of resources per year. students in primary school, and that this should give us better results in a knowledgeable way. I agree in part, but at the same time we have to be careful to adopt an entirely rational model that requires each crown to produce results that can be measured. Students play a very important role in evaluating education. Students represent a large resource in the form of experiences and opinions. They are the users of the school, and they must be listened to and taken seriously. They must be given the opportunity to exercise real influence and to influence the nature of their education. Student democracy is a good thing in itself. Work against violence, racism and discrimination is important; not least, this requires a continuous and long-term effort by our entire society. Preventive and mind-building work in school is crucial. School represents the best opportunity to reach all children and young people and their parents. This is one of the reasons for the majority's proposal to grant 2 million. kr to the Foundation MOT. Their attitude-building efforts to reduce bullying, violence and drug abuse are impressive. Here, school visits, schooling of instructors, cooperation with sports teams, municipalities and businesses are an important part of their work. It is clear that the government prioritises private schools at the expense of public schools, both in terms of funding and case treatment. The Workers' Party wishes to prioritise public resources at public schools. The draft budget of the Governments represents the opposite and signals a disagreement. We want diversity and not uniformity. The recognition of a private school within a law and regulation is far more than tolerance. It is a question of putting a public quality stamp under the administration of a law, on the part of the Council of State. Governments have in a number of chronicles invited to cooperate on better quality in school. This is affordable. In this regard, I would like to come up with some well-meaning cooperation councils on the design of the school of the future: let's avoid rematches, and let's go into the actual debate on the content of the school. The proposal for a State budget may give the impression that quality in school is only about an hour more in school and value projects. I think we all agree today on the goal of creating a better school. In the view of the Labour Party, we do this best by looking forward and not backwards, by processing school content and not by reforming previous reforms. So let today form a basis for cooperation in the future. I think we owe it to today's young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e252	I can comfort the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, that the government parties are very pleased with the government we have – especially the government council in this area. It might be a little different to what Bekkemelm Orheim is with his own retired government, because now it's only two months since the Workers' Party government disappeared, and the Workers' Party is actually involved in introducing a completely different policy than what they promised Norwegian students while they were still sitting with their own State Council. Just after the study year began, the current depositor and former government council Trond Giske sent out a brochure to all the country's students, where he promised the following in connection with a new grant model: ‘The new grant model will not be introduced until better study quality and new evaluation forms are in place.’ It was then on conversion schemes in the grant model. The first working party does when the government has resigned and a new budget is to break the promise of its own state council and introduce the precisely conversion model. In addition, the Workers' Party in the election campaign traveled around the country and the beach and warned of the horror that would come to its end if we got a government where the Right was present and where the Advance Party was a supporter. The first working party does when one comes to a budgetary procedure after we have received such a government, is to go in cooperation with the precisely Progress Party, which was warned against during the election campaign. Is it so that the Workers' Party in opposition does not know what the Workers' Party stood for? Or have both policies, attitudes and seriousness changed in the Labour Party? And is the agitation you stood for in the campaign, zero worth when you get into another situation and have changed government?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e266	I think that the right has more need to comfort the voters than the representative of the Bekkem between Orheim. Because I think there are many of the Right voters who are very, very disappointed when they know about the content of the Right School Bet after the offensive attitude Right has just had on school policy for a long, long time. Then it becomes quite obvious when we know the content of the Right proposal to the State budget. That's why it's also made strong reactions. I understand very, very well that the Right is hurting over what we managed to achieve. You talk about an unusual constellation that was about inedible, and ask what in the world it is that has happened in the Storting this time. What's happened in Stortinget this time is that a majority of the parties have been deeply dissatisfied with the scheme that the Government put forward. That is why we have reached a settlement. And I think that right now gradually will come to notice what it means to cooperate and make compromises. It will mark every day in the Government, and it is also a compromise that these parties have achieved through the majority voting we have obtained in this budget. And then it's not like the Workers' Party has changed its rhetoric. On the contrary, we are very pleased to have an overall approach to Norwegian students for whom Norwegian students themselves applaud, in relation to the scheme that the Right had. I also want to say that the Right wants to introduce a grant of 40 pst. for a small handful of students, i.e. public high school students. And I can't understand that this is in line with Right Policy, but I think it's been a compromise where the Christian People's Party probably had a hand on the wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e275	As the representative of the presumptuously inedible lot, I'm going to try to angle this a little bit differently. I have a very direct question for the representative from the Workers' Party, and then I have a question that goes on structure – to move the thread forward from the question that was asked to the representative from SV. But to take the direct question first, has the representative from the Workers' Party also wondered about the calculations related to the costs of height and direction of scholarships? That's the way the representative comes from the party that entered the 40 pst budget. scholarship, which was taken out by the government of Bondevik, and has now joined a majority who will put it back. Has the representative wondered about the calculation of withdrawals and set-offs? So to the structure – and then it's probably predictable that the question will be about the same as what went to SV, maybe more directed to the Workers' Party than to SV, because it's the Workers' Party that has had the University School as one of its big fanatics over many, many decades after the war, and with a miserable result. Will the Labour Party and the representative to whom I am now asking the question take on board that the results fail disastrously, and that it must be opened up to allow others to go to and run schools? When the OECD study gives us one after another from public school – what I call monopolistic school, what the Labour Party calls the single school, and where the public is essentially running – will you now take in these miserable results and be prepared to open up so that others can also run school? So we have to open up the legislation, as we have seen in our neighbouring country Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e284	At the representative of Sortevik's first question, I can answer very clearly yes. There's no doubt that there's a lot of thinking and wondering when to sit and give up a government budget, including the different reality that can be presented when one has moved away from position to opposition. The same applies to the other batches that have then come into a different situation, namely that they are in position. When it comes to the math on the scholarship share, we want to look at it more closely, because we see that we've probably used a little bit of different numbers. The working party is set to follow this up in retrospect to the extent that we have the ability to guarantee the quality of the calculations that the department has done. We know that there will be uncertainty about the estimates of how many students will benefit from the scheme. I guess there's reason to think that there's something similar in the ministry, regardless of which government council sits there -- I take it as a matter of course that it happens -- but we think there's a reason to look at this equation and come back to it at a later stage. On the second question, to make the Norwegian school better, it's clear that we're up to it. And here we must not fear a debate on quality. I think all the parties sitting in this room are concerned about having a quality debate and improving the quality of Norwegian school. But I think it's going to be very wrong – and I'm not saying I'm against all private schools, we've opened up to it – when everything we see from the government parties through the redeployments that have been done goes to the private school, and nothing is going to strengthen the common school. When we see many of the problems that we have in Norwegian society -- bullying, rushing, many problems related to our new compatriots -- I think it's of unique value that we have a single school that captures most of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e293	The Working Party, SV and the Centre are united on many important formulations that are not linked to the figures budgets themselves. It's going on in school, it's going on in the university and higher education sectors. Important political signals are given through these formulations. I would also like to say that it was to the extent of a rather bold proposal that the Workers' Party made when they wanted to remove $12 million. kr for primary school examination. That we have, through compromise, pulled it back again – as I experience it – may be, but initially it was an exciting and bold proposal. In Norway, we spend several hundred million dollars a year — how many I don't know, I don't exactly have the number — on completing different types of exams in primary and secondary schools. Finland, the country with which we want to compare when it comes to quality, does not have a centralized examination system in primary school similar to that in Norway. So it can't be the exam form itself that's involved in ensuring the quality of school. We know a lot about changing content, getting new forms of work and new ways of working at school. We have evaluated Reform 94, where it was pointed out that the textbook, the examination form and the character system are largely governing what is going on in school. So if we're going to get a real content reform, we have to do something about these things. And my question to the Workers' Party is: Will the Workers' Party together with us put in a blow to make a real change of content, but at the same time take the necessary steps that go on evaluation, assessment and examination, to bring about the content reform that we all probably want?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e304	If, at the end of his reply to this reply, Mr Orheim, the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, was able to make a presentation on proposal No. Two, that would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e307	That's exactly what I was going to do at the end of my post now. But I can do it first. I shall then refer to proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, and I guess I don't have to figure it out any more. As for the question from Rikvam, about exams in primary school, the Workers' Party believes that we should still have exams in primary school. But we mean at the same time that we have to look at how we can do the system better. So it's a little bit surprising that the reactions from the right-hand side are so strong at this point. I'm going to experience the right as a party that will constantly make it more efficient, get more out of every penny, but here we look at a certain right true face, that there's a stick of conservative party, that really wants to have it as it has been. In the field of education policy, we see that we have a reversal of adopted reforms – a desire to return to where one was. I think that's a slightly defensive starting point. At least I think we should try out new methods. And it's important that we put in some main foundations, where objective criteria must be important. And the examination shall continue to be part of the evaluation of professional results. We're going to have the exam, but at the same time we have to look at the possibility of making it more effective. I am not sure that only a central evaluation will be the best and most optimal for Norwegian students. I think we can try out other models. If it doesn't turn out to have the value we think, I'm going to be the first to go back and have a different position in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e317	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has taken up the proposal she referred to. Then we should be up-to-date about the proposals. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e322	The right-hand side pursues a policy of education where quality and knowledge dissemination are key objectives. Knowledge, competence and creativity provide security and ability to master challenges and transitions in a society that is changing rapidly. This fundamental premise of the Right School Policy is also a common objective for the Government Parties, enshrined in the Sem Declaration and continued through the practical policies of the Government. The good school shall disseminate cultural heritage, values and knowledge, but shall also assist mastering, unfolding and social development. A high level of education and competence is important in order to maintain the level of well-being and increase value creation in Norway. Very many of the enterprises and businesses that become established in the coming years will be knowledge-based and knowledge-intensive. They will be even more dependent than they are today on people with good education and a high level of competence. As a nation, we need to be able to develop and maintain research and technology environments among the best in the world. Therefore, the Right will increase the focus on better education and skills. With this background, the Right deeply disagrees with the Head of the Federation of Education Helga Hjetland's statement that Norwegian students are good enough. I think it is a direct insult to Norwegian school students, their parents and the school communities as a whole almost to postulate that it is natural for Norwegian school students to be mediocre. Let me stress that there is a lot of good in Norwegian school. We have students as well as teachers who do an excellent job, with commitment, creativity and mood. But when we get a survey that reveals that despite being the highest in terms of resources, only intersects mediocre in terms of results, critical questions need to be asked about how we organize and run our education and our school. There is nothing to suggest that we Northmen in general are stupider than our neighbours in the other Nordic countries or in Europe. In this area, I allow myself to be a little selfish and think that we can claim ourselves among anyone. Then we also have to take the consequences of such depressing studies — find out what we do wrong and how we can best, including in education and school. This is the ultimate consequence of how we will be able to maintain our welfare society in the future. Then it is not useful to go to the trench and accept that it is typical Norwegian to be mediocre. From the Right, we take a strong distance from such a claim and address the challenge. For this reason, the Council of State has appointed a separate sample to assess and propose how we can get out of this situation as quickly as possible. For us, it is not enough to be the best person to give money to the school. We also need to ensure that students receive the education they need and achieve the best results. An important element will be better teacher training, increased opportunities for teachers to be re-educated and higher status and recognition of the teaching profession. On the right, it is very pleased that the Government in its proposal for a government budget places emphasis on improving the quality of school, especially when this is directed towards completely fundamental and important areas, such as stronger efforts at literacy training. Without this basic skill from primary school, every student will remain silent with a serious disability later in life, both in terms of working life and in terms of privacy. The right is also satisfied with the clear marking contained in the Government's creation of the Workers' Party's proposal to weaken the examination scheme in primary school. The exam seems motivating to most students. After ten years of schooling, students have, in our view, a requirement for a proper exam and an unwarranted assessment of their results. The parties to the Government are therefore in favour of maintaining the Government's proposed appropriations. Compulsory examination after primary school is an important step in the learning process, and we will not weaken this part of the overall evaluation system. In the budgetary agreement concluded between the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, the examination scheme in primary school is weakened, as in the Labour Party Government premises. It is not surprising that the Labour Party and SV use the opportunity to weaken the examination scheme. It's in many ways completely in line with their ideology. It is considerably more surprising that the Progress Party, which I had thought was much closer to the government parties in education policy, gives way to the same gallie. I hope, therefore, that the association of the Progress Party with the socialists in this budgetary procedure is only an expression of a moment's thoughtlessness, and not a lasting side-step. The question of profile and priorities is even greater when one sees that both the Progress Party and the Center Party are involved in a serious reduction of the country lines in secondary school, and that the same parties are involved in giving the Norwegian Church and the Friars more difficult working conditions. This is contrary to the priorities of the Right. The right will maintain the landlines as today, without including the appropriations in the county framework grant. In brackets, I would like to point out that I think it serves our committee leader little honour to claim in his main post that the government parties were against granting subsidies to the national lines, when, on the contrary, the government parties that had the finance committee contribute a earmarked grant to the national lines in the position of the financial committee – which SV is now unfortunately involved in reducing. I also deeply regret the fact that the majority further complicates the working conditions in the Church, both by removing appropriations for baptismal training and by weakening the Information Society's fund. In our opinion, this is an untimely overrun of the Church's autonomy and the Church's freedom to dispose of its resources on a free basis. Right goes in to strengthen private schools throughout the education system. These schools are an important complement and corrigendum to public schools. Economically, these schools must have the same framework as public schools. This is a priority in the resolution proposed by the Government Parties. The major theme of the Committee's consideration of the government budget for next year has been study funding. In its proposal for a State budget, the Government has followed up the Hierre’s promises from the election campaign not to introduce any conversion scheme into study funding until the quality reform of higher education has been introduced. Furthermore, the Government has followed up the electoral commitments to increase the cost standard for study funding and to maintain a minimum of 30 pst. scholarship share. The Workers' Party and SV, with the support of the Advance Party, prioritise the introduction of enhanced scholarships, with the conversion scheme and implementation at the end of next year. This is financed by deducting the interest gain from all students on transition to monthly payments, while at the same time exacerbating the conditions for foreign students and students at private colleges. This seems to be an amazing form of home-scrolled financial acrobatics and prioritisation. In this context, I cannot fail to mention that SV has previously been a strong opponent of any kind of conversion, with clear principleal justification. During this budgetary procedure, it is clear that several SV principles have disappeared at the same time. Not only do you go to bed with your declared and exonerated archenemy Progress Party, no, SV also agree to introduce a conversion scheme in the study funding, while also participating in cutting out appropriations for the construction of several student homes. That the Workers' Party is breaking its promises, the Advancement Party is probably taking all the credit off – I hope so. I also think it is worth recalling that the bulk of the population – with the support of both the SV and the Centre – rejected the previous attempt by the Workers' Party to introduce monthly student loans payments. The principles in SV do not seem to last very long. The importance of excellent research to maintain and further develop our welfare society cannot be overestimated. Research is important both for industry and for the public sector, while research has an important cultural function. Knowledge and competence are essential for society’s ability to increase value creation. This is why the Right is in favour of strong growth in Norwegian research, among other things. through the introduction of economic instruments, such as tax incentives and strong growth in the Research Fund. In parts of the marine and maritime sectors, Norway is already the world leader. In order to maintain and preferably increase our activity in these areas and to exploit some of our enormous opportunities for growth in the maritime sector, the Right will further strengthen research in the coming years. Over time, the growth of the mainland economy determines the development of wealth in Norway. In this perspective, a good school, with quality and creativity as basic attitudes based on some of the world's leading research and research results, is the best prerequisite for success. The focus of the Councils on quality throughout the education system is therefore an important and good follow-up to the Higher Education Policy. This year’s budget is thus a step in the right direction and marks the beginning of a continuous quality improvement in the Norwegian education system. The representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim makes it a point that government parties have also made some marginal changes to the Government's draft government budget. It is, of course, an attempt at – and not just an attempt, but it is – a continuation of the government’s creation of the former Prime Minister Stoltenberg’s budget, which the Government had very short time to rectify. And the proposals that the government parties have made go even further in creating the skepticism that the Stoltenberg budget contained. Finally, I take up and promote the joint proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e368	Søren Fredrik Voie has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e373	I have a great deal of understanding that the Right is hurt and also disappointed that they have not agreed to a settlement through the state budget they have submitted. It is clearly a clear blow for the new Council of State that the bulk of the population wants a different bet and device from the Council of State itself. But now it's not only the majority of the population, it's actually also the right-wing group that's dissatisfied with the Council of State's management of the state budget. And I hear what the representative here is saying. Yes, there are marginal differences, but it's actually moving 70 million. kr. The majority has moved by 210 million. kr, such that there are actually significant changes. And I can only understand that if this was so important to the Government, they had to be able to get the kind of marginal adjustments in place within their draft budget. I can't understand how the Right can defend an increase in the grant rate of 40 pst. At the same time, when it is considered that a majority does so by increasing the grant rate for all students up to 40 pst, it is irresponsible. I want to challenge Right on this, and I want them to give a clear answer as to why in some way it becomes so ethically right to do it to high school students, while the majority of people do it to all Norwegian students, are totally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e390	I can reassure the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, that the Right is not disappointed at all. On the contrary, we believe that the budget presented by the Government is a good budget, which I tried to underline in my contribution. As the representative also knows, the parties to the government also reached an agreed settlement with the Progress Party, for which there was no majority in this Chamber. Don't do that. Nor do I think, as was stated here, that there is a clear blow to the Council of State that the budget is given a different facility. What is the other device? Well, the other device is to introduce 40 pst. a two-month one-year grant in respect of a policy that the Government itself has said to implement. But you speed it up by two months. Yes, it was a formidable blow – if it could be called it. With regard to the fact that government parties have moved a few dollars in the budget, there is a clear priority in line with the government’s own priorities. We have strengthened and continued in the same areas as the Government itself has prioritised, in line with both the Sem Declaration and the Government Party's objectives, and it seems to build up and reinforce the policy that the Government wants to pursue. With regard to the scholarship to high school students, we believe that it is a reasonable principle that no one should get out worse than in relation to the schemes they have had in the past. And that has been corrected by the government parties through their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e401	The representative of the financial acrobats shall have the main post and shall take some of the Hierre's grief reactions in this respect. But I have three concrete questions. One is: if the Right School effort is to arrive at the buildings, we are surprised that you do not want to participate and provide a device of the local economy that allows you to benefit from the freedom of deduction. Then you have to do something about the regulations for the local economy and the accounts in the municipalities. We are surprised that you don't want to be part of it. Would you like to review it again? And it's going to be right-hand schooling at this one school hour for two to four. class steps in the autumn of 2002, this one Norwegian hour, shall have a reasonable chance of reaching the student, one must actually be concerned with ensuring that. And the easiest way to make sure that, in fact, is to label the money so that it is done a teaching time – if that's what you're looking for. I'll ask you again why the right won't help to make sure that these 100 million. In fact, the students were able to find out from 2 to 4. class steps in the autumn of 2002. I think I'll leave it with that, I see that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e414	It wasn't stupid!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e417	With regard to the guidelines for the rehabilitation of school buildings, there is a matter for consideration in the ministry. The parties involved are included on advice — KS and other relevant organisations in the school communities, respectively. The Ministry aims to have these guidelines clear from 1 January so that they can be implemented. Then there will also be leadership, so that the construction that is the worst done will be prioritised first. With regard to the designation of grants, which the representative Sortevik had in mind, there is a basic view from the Right that we want to have the least earmarked grants, because we actually believe in local democracy, that those who are closest to the problems are also able to give priority, even if they are not on the Stortingen but pursue policies on a different level. And with regard to the strengthening of Norwegian education at the second, third and fourth class stages, I am convinced that local politicians will follow the strong signals given by the Stortinget, and that they have the same priorities locally that we want to have centrally – without any earmarking.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e426	I'm glad that the Right uses a lot of its speaking time on SV. The State budget clearly shows what the different parties on the Stortinget have prioritised, and the visions that the different parties have, when the Right and the other government parties have both removed the support for school books in high school and cut the municipalities. Principles are important. In its alternative budget, the Swedish Government’s proposal has an increase of DKK 3.7 billion in the education budget. In the case of study funding, it is part of the SV principle. We are pleased that we have managed to deal with the Government's framework, but still ready to continue the study funding. That will mean that for next year's budget, the government has to deposit about $1 billion. We haven't just managed to get a 40 pst. study funding, but we also clearly have one thing that the Government and the Right have gone against, namely an income-rated refund, which is incredibly important for many students who have completed their education. My question is, does not the Right View this issue? A good school and a public school are also important — a common platform, not only for different cultures and for different religions, but also for those who are to varying degrees weak, and for those who are skilled. The Norwegian school is on the right track. The Norwegian school has integrated both good and bad students. Does the Right not see that this is necessary in order to get a good – and important – business?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e444	It could be tempting to return the question to the representative Lena Jensen and ask if the SV sees that Norwegian school policy is not about student funding. Future academics are very concerned, but everything else that has to do with Norwegian school policy is not being given much attention. When Lena Jensen says that we have a clear and clear priority here, I owe it to you to point out that what you have discussed and disagreed about is less than 0.5 pst. of the total budget for the church and education sectors, which we have been dealing with in the Committee. All the other things we agree on. So we agree on 99.5 pst. by the priorities, and according to Lena Jensen, there is a clear and clear priority on the last 0.5 pst. Or a little bit less than that. On the right, a comprehensive school policy is pursued, where the funding for studies is part of the overall school policy. And in terms of the grant share and the conversion scheme, the right has said that this is also going to make sure that we get up to 40 pst. However, we should have introduced what the former government has promised, and which we have promised in the election campaign, namely to have the main features of the quality reform put in place before we introduce a conversion system. We will stand by that, and we will also ensure that it is implemented in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e454	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e457	Let me, before I forget it, take up our suggestions, no. Three to seven, it's done. Compared to the gross expenditure frame of approx. 36 billion kroner within the framework area of 17 in St. Prp. No 1 and Appendices Nos. 1–4 has moved the Progress Party by means of its own draft budget of approx. 370 million. kr or 1 pst. Even with 1 pst. it is possible to have a marked and clear political profile. And although the Progress Party's alternative budget has not been adopted, and although the Progress Party under the threat of cabinet issues has chosen to support the Government's budget, it is nevertheless both right and important to use a few words precisely on the Advance Party's alternative budget. First of all, I would like to refer to the part that the other parties definitely do not want to talk about, namely the foreign budget. For 2002, too, the Progress Party has proposed that we set up our own state budget for the goods and services we can buy as a high oil nation abroad, without affecting the temperature of the Norwegian domestic economy by a tenth of its heat. In such a foreign budget, the education sector can also benefit from important items. Here the Progress Party has proposed the following: DKK 1 billion for the purchase of ICT equipment for the whole educational sector 500 million. SEK to study abroad SEK 2 billion in additional fund increase in the Research Fund In our opinion, it is obvious that such an economic uplift would have great effect. Over the course of a year, we could come very far in equipping schools and higher schools with top equipment for the right number of students. Through the purchase of study places, we would be able to increase study capacity and certainly study quality. It is regrettable that we still do not have a constructive debate on such a profitable use of oil money, and regrettably that we do not yet gather a majority of measures that could give the whole education sector a boost. From the original domestic budget of the Advance Party for Framework Area 17, I mention in particular the following aspects: The frame of action. 2410 The government's loan fund has increased by more than 400 million. kr. Cape. 920 Norwegian Research Council and Chapter. 286 Research and Innovation Fund totaled 360 million. kr. Cape. 240 Private schools and cafes. 282 Private tertiary education has been provided with considerable resources. in appropriations for training in mother tongues and Norwegian for immigrants and asylum seekers — an item that appears to be heavily over-budgeted. In particular, I would like to point out that the Progress Party reiterates its structural proposals for the Norwegian education sector – structural proposals which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, would radically change supply, financing and quality. It is tempting to refer to the OECD study on students’ knowledge that became known through the media last week. Norway has a cost-intensive education sector, but it cancels the exam. It is the public monopoly school that runs for the exam! The public monopoly school — the single school where everything is to be amplified downwards — has been the very support of the post-war Norwegian school system. The beam is the rat; now the public school house collapses, not only because of poor maintenance, but also because of poor content. Today, too, there is an alarm message in the media about miserable results in Norwegian school. Today, recent statistics show that students are getting worse and worse at calculating. The time is ripe for innovation. Time is overdue to change system. The Progress Party has the solution: free access to the establishment of schools and apprenticeships in the framework of a national recognition and evaluation system, and funding to ensure that government money follows the student and the student. Students and students must become customers. Students and students must be able to set requirements for the educational product. Competition will stimulate innovation and creativity. Free schooling will also provide the publicly driven school with a pouff forward and upward. In this context, we must at least be satisfied with the fact that the vote presents a majority of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who will review the Private School Act with a view to simplifying the system of approval and shortening the procedure time. In particular, this majority will look at the financial basis of private schools in order to ensure better the choice of parents and pupils. It's a small but important step in the right direction. From the Progress Party we assume active follow-up from the Government. It is thoughtful that in the OECD study mentioned, Sweden is ahead of Norway in terms of the three subjects presented. Sweden took a radical approach to its school policy almost ten years ago; they released the schools, they opened up private schools in a completely different way from the now existing majority of people in Norway. In the work on the framework 17 budget, the Progress Party has not provided enough alternative budgets. Instead, we have chosen, through negotiations with other parties, to seek a majority for changes that the Progress Party considered important. With background in St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001 and Innst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001 – Quality reform of higher education – we have naturally put our main focus on the student grant scheme. Most probably remember that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party provided a majority in this setting for an increase in the scholarships from 30 to 40 p.m., with full conversion – i.e. a carrot linked to the study progress and examination examination. As is well known, such a scheme was also included in the draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg. The fact that the Bondevik government is resuming the same regime is initially quite provocative – nor can it surprise the government parties. It proved difficult to obtain movement from government parties on the issue of scholarships, with good effect in 2002 and 2003. An agreement was negotiated, but still rejected for 12 hours. Nothing sensational about it, it is often the case that in a situation of negotiation, it is the usual procedure for the dealers to check with their own organisation that the negotiated ‘exchange’ is acceptable. So in this case, the conclusion was not acceptable. In retrospect, it is also obvious that it was a correct conclusion. In relation to the issue clearly put at the top of the priority – the grant scheme – the Progress Party has also clearly achieved a much better count-out by means of a budgetary agreement with the parties Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. An unusual alliance, many would say. It is an unusual alliance, because in part the parties have quite a different view of education policy. But it is true that the budget for 2002 has reached a figure of 220 million. kr does not lead to any system changes and structural changes other than students’ scholarships. And the reason we managed to come to an agreement with the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party on the increase in scholarships was that all four participants had focused on this one case, all four participants were set to get 40 pst. from 2002 and all four participants were prepared to achieve this through compromises. The Progress Party is pleased that we have increased from 30 to 40 p.m., we are satisfied that we have received a conversion share of l5 p.m., and we are pleased that we have achieved such a marked increase with effect from 2002. It is true that at the end of the first half of 2002–2003, the maximum number of students is likely to take the exam. the end of the calendar year 2002. Therefore, when the scheme enters into force on 1 November 2002, very many of the students receiving loans who take the school year 2002–03 will enjoy the grant increase. And not least: we should now have secured a 40 pst system. scholarship also for the whole of 2003. The increase in scholarships is intended by the Ministry to cost 220 million. kr. There's a lot to say about those calculations, but the Progress Party will pursue outside the budget case. The balance of the parties which are in majority is distributed over a number of chapters and items. There is a mix of technical adjustments, excessive dimensioning in 2001 and the transfer of unused amounts in 2001 to 2002 and a reduction in expenditure on budget lines for 2002. No one likes to be subjected to budget cuts, but in our opinion the reductions are to live with. I would also like to remind you that most of the expenditure items in the budget for the State Loan Fund are estimates. Here, there is both time and space to adjust parts of the cuts in the preparation of the revised budget in half a year. When I underline this, it is not because the majority is uncertain about their own balancing, but simply because of the desire not to have to reduce more than it actually is necessary to do. Of the individual balancing items in the framework of 2002, there is an entry of 12.3 million. kr, such as The right has chosen to focus heavily on. I'm thinking about cap. 224 Joint actions in primary school — the system of written examination in primary school is being changed. A saving option has been demonstrated by performing censorship of centrally prepared samples in another way. When the Right manufactures this as if the exam disappears and that the exam is being conducted in a terrible bad way, they first have to decide what they really think. Then they should take the facts into consideration. We have full confidence that the department within a comprehensive central management body – with branches in almost every state through the State Education Office – can manage to conduct censorship in an objective and good way for the student. If, on the other hand, the political leadership in the department needs more detailed instructions, the majority can certainly be helpful. Finally, we must take the signals about the decay of the public monopoly school. We have money for buildings, equipment and materials, but we don't want to spend the money. We need a system that opens up school, opens up the school for impulses and development. We need to facilitate and encourage schools other than public schools. We have to remove the public school monopoly and make students and parents customers. For the time being, there is unfortunately too little political will to do anything about the structure. Then we believe that we could get a process in the education sector that would also provide good learning outcomes. It is regrettable that the Progress Party is still alone here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e535	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e540	I would like to address the last thing that the representative talked about, namely, exams at primary and secondary schools. It is quite right, as the representative says, that it is clear that it is possible to conduct the exam for a much lower amount than 26 million. kr. Actually, that's how we spend $13 million. kr only to design the one primary examination to be held in the year. If the Council of State is engaged in public sector innovation, this should be a very specific area to be addressed. If you were to follow the Progress Party program, you would have to take the exam and test in a number of more subjects than what we're doing in primary school now. We were going to spend more money on tests, we were going to spend more money on censorship – money that could instead have been used to improve the quality of teaching and learning environment. And my question to the representative of Sortevik is: isn't it a much more sensible use of resources to spend money where students actually learn, through education, through greater opportunities for projects, group work, better equipment, etc., than for more passive tests? I agree with Mr Sortevik that with what has happened in the budget now, you can fully maintain the test level and the examination level that is in today's primary school. But is it not a proper development to spend less money on the type of passive measures and more money on active learning measures that ensure the importance of the school, namely that students can do the most when they have completed their education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e549	Of course, I fully agree that we should ensure a good learning result in school, but we probably have a very different view of how best to do it. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party, who has mentioned this examination in the budget proposal from its own party, now confirms that the conversion that is being discussed will continue to lead to an examination at primary school in 2002. So I want to add that we have a desire to do something about the entire school structure. We want not only to open up through legislation that many people can run schools, but also to do something about funding, but with a speaking time of 10 minutes, which made it hustle and bustle, it was not an opportunity to touch it. So we want to do something about the funding system so that the money follows the student, and we want a national school supervision to supervise the schools. We are sure that there will be a significantly better funding system for the students than we see today, how many of the money in the framework grant to the municipality actually disappears in both empty municipal and municipal offices with ebbs, and which do not come up with primary school education at all, nor through the county municipality for secondary school education. We have to do something about both the structure, so that many can compete with public schooling, and we have to do something about funding, which ensures that there is government money with students and students. Then we think that we'll get a common good solution and a much better solution than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e558	I record that the representative Sortevik of the Progress Party in several lines and in his own post mentions that the public monopoly school is up for the exam. I think it's a paradox that he uses that expression, and I want to comment on it and also ask the representative of the Progress Party about both exams and scholarships. We record in Stortinget that the day the Progress Party has the opportunity to influence the budget for education, we see no strengthening of the private schools, which should be a complement to the public monopoly school. So, for exams. You use animals and ‘holy’ time from the pulpit in Stortinget to explain that we are still going to have the exam, and at the same time you refer to an article in the Evening Post today that writes that three out of ten students are unable to cope. It is precisely the conversion of the exams that deprives us of the opportunity to know what students in Norwegian school can do through central censorship. I would like to ask the following questions to the representative of the Progress Party: how can a few better quality in school without knowing how much students can do through the central exam? And the next question I have to ask is: When you talk about scholarships and the increase in scholarships, how can the Progress Party, which has gone into the rush to be more governing and deciding more and being a freer individual, go in so that the state through the State's loan fund is going to be babysitting and paying out the scholarship share in portions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e571	Which was waiting for terper on the right of the exam, which they are partly dissatisfied with the quality of after the conversion equal to 12.3 million. kr, and as they claim, will disappear altogether. It's not like that. But this terping by both the representative Robertsen and others in the right party must be an expression of a sad reaction – I can't tell you the other way – a sad reaction to the fact that you can't succeed in negotiating. But above all, we should ask the questions in relation to our own willingness to negotiate and our own negotiating room, which was obviously very tight. The examination will be completed. We have faith that the governing body that will continue to exist within the framework of hundreds of millions of dollars, both centrally and, as I mentioned in my post, at the State Education Office, will be fully able to conduct a proper exam for primary school students, with a proper censorship, with a sound appeal and also so that the aspects of human rights are safeguarded, since it has also been recorded by a sad Right. I have great faith that the exam will continue, and I also have full confidence that the department will be able to carry out this reorganization and take this savings, which the Right is often very eager to hunt with us. I don't quite understand that this is going to be so problematic. So here, there's a saving option here by doing things a little bit different, and with the same good result. It must be fully possible to do so, even within a fully sound framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e580	There's a lot of work to do. I allow myself to take up the OECD report that Sortevik refers to, and that he had read about in the media. When the representative of Sortevik makes it so that the OECD report shows that the Norwegian public school has a squeezing character, it is completely wrong. That the representative of Sortevik is interested in stigmatizing the Norwegian public school, I understand. But what the report shows is that we have to develop the school. There's a lot that needs to be done. But what it also shows is that among comparable countries we are in the middle of the tree. What it shows is that other countries have a lot more centralised and many more exams, so they're more used to such a type of exam. In addition, there are many more special schools in comparable countries. In Norway, we have what I think is very good – we all have in public school, both those who are weak and those who are capable. I want to ask a question to Sortevik. Passive tests don't think SV is the way to go. Isn't a continuous evaluation throughout the year something you'll have to deal with when you get into the real life outside of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e589	It's actually that exams are something you have to deal with in the real world. You're like an adult individual still up to some kind of exam. We have faith in the OECD report since it was brought forward. I brought a copy myself. We believe that this is a good and thorough investigation, which unfortunately carries a very clear message that the results of the public monopoly school are poor. If there's something we Northmen hate, it's probably getting knocked down by the Swedes, and here we're actually being knocked down by our neighboring country Sweden, quite clearly documented. Then it is also natural to ask what Sweden does differently than us in the education sector. And then it's an undeniable fact that, about ten years ago, a fairly comprehensive educational reform was carried out in our neighbouring country of Sweden, where social democrats were also involved, opening up a completely different opportunity to establish schools in competition with the public-owned school. I cannot help but understand that of the results we are now reading from this comprehensive and comprehensive OECD report, which shows that Sweden is unfortunately solid in front of Norway in many important disciplines, it is among other things. the conclusion that they have gained a diversity in school and a good development in their school thanks to the fact that many other than the public have entered the arena and compete with the public school, which is, of course, found in a very rich month in Sweden. What is also claimed in the Swedish debate is that competition for the public owned and driven school has strengthened the public school as well. So you've actually got a situation where both actors have won.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e598	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e601	Today's budget debate is the first major debate on church, education and research policy in this enlargement period. There may be reason to ask whether we see some political priorities for the next four years in today's debate. During this period the Christian People's Party has chosen to enter into a government cooperation with the Right and Left. In the Sem Declaration, we find the political basis for this cooperation. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to emphasise that the school should provide knowledge, competence and creativity. It is therefore right to focus on quality, the learning environment and diversity. But it is equally important for the Christian People's Party to point out that learning is a lifelong process. The good school shall disseminate cultural heritage, education, values and knowledge, but shall also assist children in mastering, unfolding and social development. This requires an overall learning vision based on the dignity, abilities and opportunities of the child. School policies that do not start with individual life will soon lose focus. The 2002 budget is something special. The change of government after the election resulted in much of the premises and the basis being given by the outgoing Stoltenberg government. The co-operation administration had little time and limited opportunity to put its mark on the budget. Nevertheless, there are initiatives here that alert new and important priorities. The main signal is the willingness to increase the number of hours of childhood for, among others. improving reading and writing training. The new PISA study shows that we have a job to do here. The OECD study also shows the need to work with the school learning environment. Many students complain of a devastating disturbance at school. The ‘Values in School Life’ project is directly involved in this challenge. Furthermore, the Government strengthens diversity by increasing the appropriations for private higher education, and the cooperative parties follow up on the adjustment with increased funding for private schools. Study funding is improved by increasing the cost standard and maintaining a basic grant of 30 pst. to all, regardless of whether the student is able to pass the examination. Research progress to the average OECD level by 2005 is on track, and R & D measures are taxed to increase the research effort of industry, while increasing the Research Fund. Then the Swedish Cooperative Government has shown the willingness to invest in the Norwegian Church by securing the funds for the local church, proposing more jobs and starting projects for better baptismal training. These priorities show that the Christian People's Party has an impact on the policies of the cooperation parties. In today's budgetary position, we experience a majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. This majority has one common priority: to increase the grant share in study funding. But this re-priority of about 220 million. I am not sure whether the majority is equally aware of the consequences of their budget cuts. I experience a lack of willingness on the part of the majority to make the cuts concrete, as we see in the cut on the country lines in high school, to the Church and to the native language training. Several points point out that the majority of these cuts are too serious, and the Government would like to come back with new estimates in the revised national budget in spring 2002. In addition, the majority are trying to reduce the pain by increasing the appropriations for student housing and Nordic educational cooperation in the new phase of the 2001 budget and transferring these appropriations to 2002. We, who have followed the budgetary process closely within the Committee, clearly see the overall political desire to bring a clear defeat to the Government. We must, of course, accept that in the Christian People's Party, but then I also expect the majority to be clear about how the invasion should happen and not try to minimize or shift responsibility over to the Government. It has happened several times and testifies to the lack of political courage. Another interesting question is whether today's majority will be governing education policy in the future. I don't think so, because until that's the contradictions too big, for example. in the case of examination and assessment at primary school, language training and private schools. This majority has little common policy in addition to an increased grant share. This confirms the impression that the result is clearly politically motivated. But it also means that there is no educational policy majority option for the cooperation parties' policies, and that the government has good opportunities to shape the broad lines of education policy during this major period. A majority consisting of the Arbeiderpartiet, SV, the Zenterpartiet and the Promskrittspartiet have merged to increase the scholarship share for the students by 10 pst. At the same time, they have agreed on a conversion scheme. The Workers' Party proposed a non-social conversion scheme, in which the person who did not pass his exam lost his entire scholarship. Now the Workers' Party has moderated its order, the student loses 15 pst. whether she or he does not pass the exam. The majority, in the view of the Christian People's Party, have prioritised a two-month gain for students in the introduction of increased scholarships in the next year's budget. This has cost you dearly. It has cost a lot of students in primary schools, minority language students in primary schools, students with housing problems and students at the many national lines around the country. It has also cost the Church, which now has to take the heavy burden of financing other sectors in which the parties want to invest. In addition, in order to finance part of the grant, the majority have chosen to divide grants and loans to students into monthly payments. The cooperation parties have been sceptical about this, as it has strong government control over the students' finances, because the students are not allowed to manage their own loans. Now we also see that 50,000 students at private colleges and at study places abroad can receive less advice as a result of the new payment model. Although it has been decided that half of the money will be paid at the start of the semester, this is not enough for the students to afford to pay the holiday fee at the start of the school. The ANSA association of foreign students also believes that this proposal would make it less beneficial to go out to study. The same can be said of students who need housing in markets where three months’ deposit is often required. These problems have also caused student organisations to reject this scheme. Last monthly payments were proposed in 1994, SV went against. At the time, SV's Øystein Djupedal went out and said that this proposal was close to provocation. But it's not just in relation to monthly payments that SV has turned around. Also in the case of the conversion scheme, SV has now accepted a model they have previously shown strong principleal resistance to. So SV has done a big turnaround in a very short time. And it's kind of amazing that when SV wants to have political influence, they go along with the Progress Party to get it done. Many students want to enjoy increased scholarships. But when we introduce the conversion system before the quality reform is in place, it means that many students do not get the intended follow-up from their study institution. This will lead to some students actually going down in scholarships, because they would already get 30 pst. scholarship anyway, while now they will only get 25 pst. if they are deleted. The cooperative management announced that the grant proportion should be escalated from 30 p.m. in the context of the implementation of the quality reform and that the increase beyond 30 p.m. shall be made depending on the mass taken. All students shall remain guaranteed a basic scholarship of 30 pst. The majority show no willingness to bet on the Norwegian Church. The Christian People's Party has pointed out two important priorities in church policy in the future. First of all, we need to get a boost in baptismal training. Only through good and active baptismal training can the Church survive. This has also been underlined by the Church meeting. Secondly, the Church needs increased staffing to meet the need for church services, but also to provide its employees with temporary working conditions. Both of these priorities require increased resources. Unfortunately, I note that the Norwegian Church will not have sufficient resources if the majority of the day continues. It shows in my opinion how necessary it is to move on in the work of giving the Norwegian Church an independent church economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e658	The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party share the same view of a number of areas of school policy, such as: that the school must take the students seriously, take them seriously as whole people, that the school must give children and young people confidence, teach them to show respect for human dignity and equip them for adult life. Like the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party will continue the common school with a good offer for all children. In my opinion, the representative Lyngstad made a very good contribution to a previous debate in Stortinget on the subject: Do we need an exam? One of the themes he talked about was the use of resources. Are we spending too much resources organising exams and censorship? Some of these arguments are exactly the same as the majority of today in terms of the view and justification of the reorganization of the central examination. So my first question is: does the representative Lyngstad share the majority's view on the central part of the exam? Does he share our vision today? I also want to get into the strange thing that has happened in this year's school debate and in the committee. It's strange that the Christian People's Party can say yes to the fact that the high school students deserve 40 pst. scholarship share, while the Christian People's Party believes that all the other students get to pay close attention to 30 pst. So I want to ask the representative Lyngstad: what reason does the Christian People's Party have to discriminate against Norwegian students?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e667	I agree with the representative Nielsen that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have shared and shared many fundamental values in relation to the common school, the public school. We want a strong public school for all students to get a good education. We have also had the same thing in common that we want a social profile in school policy in relation to equal rights to education. Then it's a little surprising to me that the Workers' Party in its study funding policy has been so committed to introducing a conversion system that has just created uncertainty in many students as to whether they dare to take higher education. If you don't pass the exam, you're left with an even higher debt. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that we have a basic grant precisely to give study funding a social profile. Here I have experienced that the Workers' Party has failed its own ideals. Do we need an exam? – A very good question! I wish the majority had clarified what's in this $12 million cut. Do you really want to delete this item? Does that mean that the elementary school exam is going to go away, or does it just mean that the money is going away? What does this mean? I would have understood if the majority had gone in to cut out exams at primary school. Then there would have been logic in that cut as well. But the majority – as far as I can see – don't. They're streamlining it. To me, it's a little unclear what's in it. I think we can use the funds much better in comparison to trials in primary school than what we do today. Then we can't remove the money first. It is not the way we provide better evaluation and evaluation methods. Finally, about the People's College. The Christian People's Party has been concerned that no one should go into scholarships. That's what happened to the Workers' Party's proposal and... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e678	The President must ask the representatives to seek to hold the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e681	The representative Lyngstad was concerned that the majority should have removed the entire exam. The representative Lyngstad has followed very poorly! The Progress Party does not want to remove the objective evaluation forms that we still have. There aren't many of them. On the contrary, we want to introduce new forms of evaluation, which can be assessed on an objective basis. Furthermore, the representative Lyngstad was concerned with the foreign students in particular and the work ANSA has done on their behalf. Then it is worth noting that the most important thing for ANSA was that the cost standard for foreign students should be differentiated and not as in St. prp. No 1 was raised on the basis of administrative problems in the Loan Fund. The fees paid by these students also have to pay for their school fees and be adjusted in currency. What I want to ask Arne Lyngstad, however, is a very specific question about the relationship to landlines, which he is deeply concerned about both in this house and in the press. As you know, landlines were not included in St.prp. No 1st@item: Nor did the Bondevik government find it necessary to add money to this before the financial committee was discussed – and then after strong pressure from the Progress Party. Then the question is quite simply: was this zero on national lines a deliberate policy, or was it a completely explainable forgetting?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e692	I note that the Progress Party will not remove the objective criteria in the assessment. That also means that the Progress Party will not remove the exam. They want new forms of evaluation, says the representative, Evje. But the money to do this goes away! That's the whole problem. Here the Progress Party wants to create new tasks but does not provide funds for them. Then the representative is Evje occupied by the foreign students. It has also been the Christian People's Party and the cooperation parties. We have even proposed an increase in the fee grant to the foreign students, but this would not be the case with the Progress Party. The representative Evje was concerned that the cost standard had to be differentiated for foreign students. Yes, we could have found a solution in the negotiations if the Progress Party had been interested in prioritizing this. Then comes the question of the landlines. The co-operation administration was unable to rectify this in relation to the budget of the Stoltenberg government. It was too short a time to get it done. But we took the consequences of it and got it fixed in the financial position, and this willingness of the cooperative parties that was at the heart of it also became the decision of the Stortinge. This continued the allocation of landlines. But the Progress Party would not continue all, and we have not yet heard which of the landlines' offers the Progress Party wants to put down when they cut the appropriations by 30 million. NOK 140 million. kr to approx. 110 million. kr. I think the Progress Party should answer that question before the debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e708	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been together with the Workers' Party to get to a good and solid elementary school. At the same time, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party – also together with the Workers' Party – have seen the importance of private schools being secured through the law. Lifelong and alternative educational schools have had a good financial environment. Now it seems as if there is a Right-wing policy that characterises the Government's school policy. My question to the Christian People's Party is: Does the Christian People's Party share the goal of setting up private schools – primary schools – on a different basis than life views and alternative pedagogy?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e715	The representative of the Kärlaa pointed out quite correctly that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have had a lot in common in education policy. And I have to say that I have a somewhat unhappy love relationship with the Center Party right today when I read the setting. What amazes me is that there is a slight difference between the education policy of the Central Party and the education policy of the SV in the position. It's a cross of thought for me. I would like the representative, Mr Schjälaa, to draw up a number of perspectives on what is the difference between the central party's policy and the policy of those with whom they are now associated in the vote. Disappearing get independent views as far as I can see. Then I'm challenged to this with fresh oils. It is true that the Christian People's Party wants to protect parental rights. That's the decisive criterion that we use when we evaluate this. It allows parents to choose education and schools both from the perspective of life and from a pedagogical platform, because school pedagogics in their basic attitude are a matter of education and education. Parents must therefore have the decisive word there. So when the Christian People's Party now enters into a new process in connection with the private school law, it's precisely for the sake of protecting parental rights both in terms of life and in relation to pedagogical perception. The Christian People's Party has no plans to get into a free, commercial market within primary and secondary education. We do not see the need for that. But we see the need for increased diversity in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e722	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e726	First, I would like to highlight the good spirit of cooperation that has shaped the process of creating a budget that forms a majority in the Committee, a majority of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The centre party said yes to be part of this collaboration because we had a common goal: to increase the scholarship to 40 pst. When the Bondevik II government presented the Appendix to St.prp. No. 1 and had removed the scholarship, it wasn't just us in the Center Party who reacted. The students called it a betrayal. And I understand the students' experience of being weakened. The promises of the election campaign had created expectations. In debates where education was a topic, the government parties took over each other with student funding commitments. The left even wanted to introduce a citizen's salary of NOK 100 000 per year. It is not difficult to understand the students' harsh words against the Government in this matter. For the Central Party it was important to get the 40 pst order. the share of the scholarships in place, the seas of the scheme as such, and as it has become, is not the ideal. However, the budgetary agreement means that the Centre Party’s first step towards better student funding has actually been achieved. Those who know the program of the Center Party know that we have the goal of getting into a system where the students don't have to pay back more than what they borrowed, roughly equal to interest-free student loans, that we don't want a conversion model of the scholarship of 15 pst. At the same time, we are pleased that the few members of the student loan-reimbursement scheme will continue to benefit from the scheme and that the rules for the repayment of student loans will be widely reviewed. There's been a lot of talk about the country lines. The budgetary agreement implies that the country lines continue to receive a special grant. I would like to remind you that both the government of Stoltenberg and the Co-operation Government had removed the grant for the landlines. There were also no funds in the framework grant to the municipalities. The centre part quickly identified the need for special treatment of these lines. When the grant to the landlines is now back with a total of 109 million. In fact, with a note that particularly costly lines, or lines of national importance, are to be given priority, we believe that the main issues of the regional aid are taken into account. A review of the grant scheme, which we ask the Government to come to spring, will show whether this is the case. If the government comes up with something else, we're going to have to take it up. In a budgetary settlement, there will always be compromises. In several areas, the Senterpartiet wanted stronger bets. We had in our alternative state budget, made visible in the financial situation, a far stronger commitment to education and research than the adopted framework provides for. This applies, inter alia, to: areas such as broadband development, R & D, cultural schools, and not least increased resources from the Ministry of Local Government budget to operate schools locally. The Centre Party has a strong commitment to broadband development in its alternative budget. Today it is in central and densely built districts that broadband expansion takes place primarily. It is expensive to expand into the district and the market is not a sufficient driver. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee stresses that broadband development requires strong public investment, and that the Committee together underlines that schools in the districts are demanding equally good technical solutions in information and communication technologies such as schools in central districts, seas where costs are high. It'll take a lot of the big community. But at the same time it must be a matter of course. So a little bit about the FUNN scheme. It's disappearing. This scheme has been a success. The feedback from many companies has been positive. The system has been unbureaucratic, with rapid evaluation and response to applications. The FUNN scheme has succeeded in increasing the research effort of industry and has reached businesses that would not normally be included in the ordinary programmes of the Research Council. The center party believes that one needs more models to stimulate research. A combination of a FUNN model and tax incentives we think is actually necessary. The centre party is known for being a cultural party, and the cultural schools are close to the centre party's heart. It is actually the case that a lot of positive has happened to the cultural schools since the Stortinget legalized the music and cultural schools in 1998. The centre party sees music and cultural schools as very important for the growing-up environment, and not least for children and young people to develop skills and facilities beyond what the school can traditionally contribute to. It's great to see how the cultural schools in many municipalities have contributed to raising and expanding the concept of culture. The Central Party had in its alternative budget proposals to raise the hourly rate, which would add about 37 million to the cultural schools. kr. So to primary school, which is run by the municipalities. It is through municipal budgets the framework for the school is formed. We see that ramti metal is cut down, schools are laid down, and in very many budget debates in the municipalities, the school structure is still under discussion. This does not happen because politicians necessarily want the students to go far, or that they want the students to go to crowded schools, but simply because the money to run a good school is not there. In OECD studies, we have been reminded that Norwegian students learn too little and that they are fighting too much. These are important signals that everything is not as good in Norwegian school. The centre party wants more adults to enter school – more teachers and environmental workers. Breaches shall not be tolerated. Everyone agrees. Those who are weak shall be provided with assistance and instruction, as appropriate. This is what must be the goal of all education. I am also convinced that the vast majority of teachers actually aim to provide the individual with the best possible education and help. At the same time, many teachers know of powerlessness, because there is so much distance between goals and the means at their disposal. Governments have signalled the possibility of cutting one school year. She will tighten up by tightening in time. A more effective school, maybe longer school days. Based on the situation the school is in, with large classes and low adult density, I think it's going to go out on those who strive the most in today's school. Then to a proposal from a joint committee: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to amend the training law so that the free principle of primary school is implemented’. Today, the situation is that parents have to contribute financially in several areas of primary school. This is mainly due to school budgets that do not allow for excursions and the like. All activities which are part of the school's professional and pedagogical syllabus shall be free of charge. Complaints to the education offices show that this is not the case. It shows that greater resources must be allocated to the school if quality is to improve, if organized education is to become a reality and if the principle of free primary education is to make good sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e755	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e758	Over 20 years, the Right has fought for the direct grant scheme to landlines. Our story is clear and unambiguous at that point. We therefore very much agree with the comments of the Centre Party on page 19 of the vote, where it says: ‘This member underlines the importance of the landlines and proposes to maintain the earmarked state grant for landlines in order to ensure that the landlines are maintained.’ My question to the representative of Skjärlaaen is therefore: does he believe that a reduction of 30 million. kr is ‘maintenance’ of the grant? Furthermore, he believes that the ‘significance’ of the landlines is underlined by the fact that a kite is 30 million. Do you really want to delete this item? And finally, what are the lines of land that will not be secured by the current reduction? Furthermore, I noticed that the representative in his post did not say anything about the church chapter. However, notes on page 19 of the Centre Party say: «This member will underline that cap. 295 The performance has been strengthened by 15 million. krona in the budget of the Centre Party in relation to St.prp. [[2001-2002]] No Add Can the representative Schjälaa explain to me the relationship between this remark and the majority's proposal to cut 14 million. kr on the same chapter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e775	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Olsen reads the general comments of the Centre Party. I really appreciate that. So to the country lines. In fact, we believe that our observation relating to the country lines far on the way meets what we think is necessary in relation to these. These are cost-intensive lines, and these are lines of national importance. This is what has emerged from the consultation process that we have been through in relation to these lines. And then we ask the government to come back with an overview of what the situation is, in the revised budget. Then we'll get an answer as to whether we've bombed on the target in relation to adding about 110 million. kr, but we don't think so. Then to the Church. What has happened in the church area of this budget agreement is that one has shifted the establishment of the posts for six months, until the revised budget. We ask the Government to increase the revenue from the Information Society's fund and redispatch so that it can do so. I hope that the Government has so good will and so strong a desire to get these positions in place that it takes the necessary action as the majority of the Committee asks the Government to take. So it's going to be 30 performances, and it's going to be ten slides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e784	In a previous line change, Arne Lyngstad expressed his love for the Center Party, and he was a little tired that the Center Party had obviously moved in the direction of SV. It is probably to the extent that we have some common comments in some key areas, but if the picture is to be complete, he must also stress that the Christian People's Party has quite a number of common comments with the Right and the Left. So who has moved, can always be discussed. In contrast to the Right Party here today, the Center Party has not been guided by random essays in the Evening Post, the last on mathematics education, so that in many ways it is what will govern the educational policy debate. It's important that we now be able to keep focus on what's central, that's the goal of the curriculum, and not just draw out pieces of the curriculum and say that in relation to those pieces, we're doing too bad a job. One must have an overall perspective on this. I also believe that the Central Party has had so far. But then I have a question for the Center Party, and it goes on the content, the evaluation system and all of this. We have to change the content, we have to get to a more dynamic and in some areas better school. Then we know that there are certain grips that need to be taken. We have research on that, so we know that. We know that we have to do something about our evaluation system, and that we have to do something about the exam system. We have to take some of this kind of grip, so it doesn't control the content of the school too much. [[The President clubed cautiously.]] My question to the centre party is then: Is the centre party willing to follow SV far in the direction of doing something basic with the entire evaluation system, the assessment system, and the examination system [[the president carefully clubs again]] - Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e795	The president feels it's approaching Christmas, since she didn't club harder!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e798	The representative Reikvam asks questions about evaluation methods in primary school. The centre party does not want to remove the exam from primary school. We want it to still be an exam. However, the examination is only one of the evaluation methods, and it is essential in the school policy of the Centre Party that a continuous evaluation should be carried out from the student’s beginning at school until he/she expires in the 10th school year — an evaluation such as: shall form the basis for the actions to be taken against each individual student. That's how the Center Party wants primary school, and that's what we're kind of doing with organized education, too, that there's going to be a continuous evaluation of the individual student, so that the individual student will get the best possible benefit from the resources available in school everyday life. Then I would also like to stress that in order to provide a continuous evaluation of the students who act as learning promoters, greater resources are actually required within the school system. I want to repeat what I said in my post, that there is local school running, and the parties that really want to bet on the school also have to make sure that the municipalities get a financial framework so that it becomes possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e805	What has made some of us get a little temperature in this budgetary process is perhaps most of the budgetary technique that I feel the majority is using, and I think the representative of the Skjillaa clearly gave a good example. Because in the case of landlines, the reason for this was precisely 30 million. kr i cut them, that had been miscalculated, or were the consequences too large, yes, the government had to come back to the revised national budget. But that is precisely this attitude and this way of resolving a budget cut, which I think is evidence of a lack of political courage. For where within the landline offer will the Senterpartie cut? Do they want to cut the ski line offer? Will they cut the offer of music, dance, drama – on the left, or in Valle in Setesdal? Is it these cuts the Center Party wants us to get back into the revised national budget? As far as the Church is concerned, the majority also uses the same technique, namely to refer to the revised national budget. Could not the majority and the representative of the Skjälaa just say, "We're cutting the money, and then we'll see what we're doing in the revised national budget, if we have money to take these positions?" But you can't do that. Expectations are created, and a real cut is hidden. I think that one should insist that it is cut, and therefore it is a little difficult to say that one should keep the positions within the Church, as the representative Schjellaaen says.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e812	The representative Lyngstad experiences I'm a bit hurt in the tone. I just want to stress and repeat again that neither the Stoltenberg government nor the Cooperation government had the landlines in their draft budget. It came in later, after several parties spoke loudly about this. I've been asked earlier about what kind of country lines are going to be laid down. They know that I cannot answer that question, because we have not made that assessment. But we believe that the comment in the budget position from the majority configuration is clear and clear. That's what the performances are. In fact, the central party believes that the performances are important. The center party also believes that the slide constellations here are important. I would say that the Centre Party has contributed to the fact that a solution has been found with regard to these performances through the provision of funds from the Information Society's fund and redispatched funds. 340 and cap. 341. So I actually believe that the Central Party has done a good job in relation to this in the budget agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e824	The co-operation administration presented its draft budget with a focus on strengthening educational efforts. Primary school got 118 million. kr more to be used, inter alia. to increase the number of hours of Norwegian education, examination schemes, measures against bullying, etc. Private colleges received $18 million. more, the appropriations for student housing increased by 26 million. kr, and the capital of the Research Fund was increased by an additional NOK 2 billion. The non-social study funding of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party was re-established. The alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party would make all the scholarships depending on the given weights, so that the students who for various reasons were delayed in the studies would get all the support paid out as a loan and nothing as a scholarship. Such a system would have seemed both unsocial and unfair. The government did this so that all the students got 30 pst. in scholarships irrespective of the mass produced. This ensures basic security for all, and the increase in the grant rate from 30 to 40 pst. were to be stepped up during the landfilling period. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have chosen to join the Progress Party in the 2002 education budget, and this has led to a result of which the three parties are difficult to recognise. In order to be able to finance their Christmas holiday – this increase in the grant share to come into force at the end of the harvest holiday – the new alliance on the Stortinget has among others. has chosen to cut back on the teaching of the language of the language of the minority and on the offer of the students. I'm sure the progress party is happy. The Progress Party has long been in charge of that policy. On the other hand, it is very surprising that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV join the Party's policy in the field of education. In particular, I am disappointed that SV supports the cuts of the Progress Party that hit the most vulnerable. I had never thought that SV would be in favour of the Party's school policy and get so little left for it, since the cuts that finance the opposition's Christmas celebrations seem to lead to the students collectively getting worse. The confidence in the students is minimal when the bulk of the population will regulate the student economy with payments every month. 50,000 foreign students and students at private colleges are particularly hit by this prefiguration. They may have to borrow privately to get the funding for the student support. The Labour Party, SV, the Advance Party and the Center Party cutters saw 26 million. kr in student housing. I think it's a typical example that the political courage of SV has been broken, and it must have been very painful. The choice of partner, when such things are going to happen, is quite important, and maybe it was a wrong choice. Such cuts do not improve the situation for students in large cities. Among other things in Oslo, the pressure in the housing market and the high prices makes it difficult enough for the students and other young people to get housing. We have often heard in this room the Workers' Party and SV talk about social housing. Now we see how little that promise really is worth. The same alliance votes down on the proposal of 6 million. kr more to student children's gardens. You're $13 million. kr more for foreign students. Private schools get smaller. It's expensive to distribute Christmas. There has been a lot of talk about the social profile of the budget debate this autumn. But where is the social profile when you cut 12.8 million? kr in native language education? As a city councillor in Oslo for culture and education, I have seen how much mother tongue education means for personal development and integration of immigrant students. There is this teaching the opposition now choosing to cut. SV is a party that uses big words, but that rarely or never has political influence. In this case, SV has gained power. And they've got it through collaboration with the Progress Party. It has been used to cut down on native language education for immigrants and in the welfare of students. SV is also talking about releasing school free, with innovation, but is voting against our proposal for such measures. You're against the department working on bullying, and you'd rather privatize it by putting it out to a foundation. When the Workers' Party and the Advance Party come together, the result is rarely nice. Housing speculation projects in connection with IT Fornebu, polluting gas power plants and the fight against labour immigration are some examples, and now we have one more example. We hope it's going to be a long time until the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e854	In the course of the review of the quality reform here in Stortinget before the summer, the Left took part in a decision asking the Government to come back with proposals to increase the grant rate to 40 p.m., with a conversion scheme of 30 p.m. in direct scholarships and 10 pst. depending on the weight figures. Now the Workers' Party and the other opposition parties here in Stortinget have come up with a scholarship model of 40 pst. scholarship share – a conversion scheme meaning 25 pst. in direct scholarships and 15 pst. Depending on weights, which for students means NOK 10000 more in scholarships, from NOK 21000 today to NOK 32 000 – while the government only offers higher loans. Then the government in the left gets itself to construct weaknesses – and a conclusion where it says that in sum the students get worse. Norwegian Student Union was out yesterday with a press release saying: ‘Now the opposition parties have cleared up... this is very joyful... this shows the willingness to bet on higher education!’ My question to the Left is, don't the students know their own best?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e866	Well, I think the students know their own best. And I have also received some feedback from student organisations. In a press release I received last night, it said: the students are being overrun. The press release was from the student organisation ANSA, the business economists and the student community at the Polytechnic College. We're constantly looking away that the students are now starting to take inward what's really happened, and what's about to happen in this room today. And I think this, just like the protests we saw around monthly payments in 1994, is going to fall down like a bomb in the student community when it's discovered. What have we been most concerned about? Well, we thought it was most important to keep the cost standard in the budget that was now presented. The government made a real up there. And what's most important for us, in relation to the conversion system you've discussed, is to get to the quality reform first. The Workers' Party has not wanted to implement this. You thought it was more important to do something about the scholarships for the students before you looked at the quality. We in the left are concerned with the quality first, and then you make arrangements around the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e875	The left has made strong criticism of SV because we have entered into cooperation in the Education Committee. Then I ask, where do you find the logic? The Government has entered into cooperation with the Progress Party which commits them throughout the policy period. What SV has done is that we have entered into a cooperation that gives a very good score for the students, and that provides a much better funding for the study. We have achieved a grant of 40 pst. We have achieved a cost standard, from NOK 69 000 to NOK 80 000. We have achieved something that the Government was opposed to, an income-grade repayment of the student loan, which, when the next year is over, will amount to $1 billion in increase. We come back to student housing on Thursday, for which we have secured funds through cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party. Parental education is a post where not all the money was spent last year. This is a rule-driven item that ensures that everyone is taught the same good language at home as they are entitled to. We have also ensured in our note that this is going to happen. My question to the Left is: does the Left not see it as a problem that such close cooperation has been established with the Progress Party in the entire budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e888	Now I'm a little surprised. I'm quite fresh in this room, extremely fresh, but I can't exactly say that I see what cooperation we have entered into with the Progress Party. We tried to negotiate a budget. It didn't work out. The government asked cabinet questions in this room. We tried to cooperate with the Progress Party on a budget in the areas we are now discussing. It didn't work out, but it went with SV. The left had never agreed to the cuts in native language education proposed. It's an important area, especially in this city. I have to say that there is going to be a strange debate in Oslo City Council when SV is going to bite in the choices you make in this room today. It is possible to say that the post office is an estimate, and it is governed by rules. But that we get more kids in this area that need this help, and that we actually do a cut in the post, is indisputable. With regard to the guarantee to be made, a matter to be dealt with on Thursday, it is only budgetary policy. It is not going to come from the fact that SV is actually involved in cutting off the grant for student housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e897	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e900	No batches are larger followers of private schools than the Progress Party. It is not only evident from the party programme that calls for the money to follow the students and that the choice of private schools is therefore equivalent to the choice of public schools. It is also evident from the alternative state budget of the Progress Party where the party proposes the clearly largest amount for private schools. The Progress Party has also seen every year the value of Norwegian students learning abroad and standing in the broom to support the foreign students. The country lines have also been met with a positive attitude of the Progress Party in the party's own draft budget. The progress is best – on paper. The Progress Party has a good policy that the party refuses to put into practice. Otherwise, the merits of the Progress Party during the budgetary procedure cannot be explained. Today, the Progress Party will agree with the Socialists for a proposal of 6.5 million. NOK less to private primary schools, SEK 2 million. kr less to private higher education institutions, 1 million. SEK less to private colleges, SEK 6 million. SEK less for studies abroad, SEK 7 million. SEK less for privately owned schools, church buildings and religious communities and SEK 29.4 million. kr less to the national lines than the proposal the party could have secured by agreeing with the parties to the Government. The progress party achieves its follow-up and the desire of all other parties to increase the grant rate for students. It's probably popular, there's a lot of students. But this is at the expense of the results in areas that should be ideologically important to the Progress Party. It shows that the Progress Party has become a party without ideological foundation in practical politics. The only thing that matters is obviously what's most popular with the most popular of all voters. In that case, the Progress Party is about to become a party without goals and meaning, if not so that the purpose of Carl I. Hagen's many budget shocks is to irritate Prime Minister Bondevik. After 25 years of experience with the Advance Party, I do not think this is entirely unlikely. If that's the case, at least the Progress Party has a goal with its policy. The party of progress is the only party in Norway, perhaps the only party in the world, which has a national meeting decision that the party should be serious. It has even been adopted through several national meetings over the years. Seriousity means coherence in politics and credibility over time. It must also mean the orientation of results, especially in areas of ideological importance. In the course of the year’s budgetary procedure, the Progress Party has instead trampled on the ground and acted as the Sinnataggen in Vigelandsparken. I'm going to vote with the government parties today. Then there is at least one representative of the Stortinget who is voting in accordance with the policy of the Progress Party on the crucial and important programme elements of the Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e913	For the Workers' Party, investment in education and research is an investment for our future. It is very central at a time when human work, knowledge and creativity are Norway’s most important national assets. Although not enough money alone, the priorities of the budgets in the field of education and research – from government to growth – provide important signals. The budget of the Stoltenberg government showed a willingness to bet. The Labour Party proposed the greatest increase ever in the appropriations for research. Study funding was proposed significantly improved by higher cost standards and a strong improvement in the grant rate. Students should have better opportunities to study full-time. We followed up the quality reform of higher education with funds for conversion, equipment, research recruitment and a new funding system for universities and colleges. The working party delivered what we had promised. Our objective is to improve the quality of both research and education systems. But quality costs, both money and effort. So how would this be with the new Bondevik government? I'm going to admit that it was with a sober restraint, but still a certain expectation, when it came to the field of education and research – especially because the Right in its election campaign made this one of its main issues. I must admit that the result was disappointing. Education and research lost in the fight against tax relief in the Government. The victim received higher scholarships for the students, a significant cut in user-driven research and the failure of the lending scheme as a way towards the goal of free teaching material in high school – a total of nearly half a billion dollars less in our field – and that after this government changed the estimates for the economy, so it got 2.5 billion kroner more to go with for the next year than the Stoltenberg government laid down. It makes me think of a leader in the evening post the other day, where it was pointed out the need to invest in the knowledge economy: «We hear a good deal about such future plans, but we see less of the appropriations that will contribute to such development.» That is a good description of the budget put forward by the Right-State Council and this government. Instead of a joint commitment in key areas, the Government has chosen symbolism policy, unless it is reflected in, for example: private colleges, a few more performances and a weather radar extra. Government parties make a big point that they are increasing the allocation of student housing for next year. First, they cut up to 300 million. SEK in scholarships for the students. So they take a little bit of this money and make an increase of 26 million. kr to dwellings as a winner of the students. It's got to be this thing called neutering. It shall also be added that the Government will not be able to approve its draft budget from its own parties here in Stortinget – without any pressure on it. On their own, they redispatch nearly 70 million. kr in new areas of symbols. Of course, the working party has to deal with the framework adopted for our area, which means almost 500 million. kr less than what the Workers' Party proposed. That means we don't have the opportunity to lift back all of the big cuts I've shown up to. But we had one budgetary objective: we would try to achieve a better study funding model from the next harvest. It was a cross-political desire to increase the cost standard and the grant share from the treatment of quality reform in the United Kingdom before the summer. An important goal, and actually a prerequisite for the entire quality reform, is to give students better opportunities to study full-time. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the other opposition parties have agreed to increase the cost standard to NOK 80000 and the scholarship share to NOK 40. from 1 November to the next harvest. That means about. 1000 kroner more in scholarships per month. The government only offers the students several thousand more in loans. That the students have demonstrated and perceived this as a breach of promise is understandable. The opposition parties have also reached a compromise on the conversion scheme, namely that the students receive 25 pst. in direct scholarships and a further 15 pst. by the cost standard according to the weights laid down. Performance requirements for maximum grant funding are correct. When government parties try to construct weaknesses through a greatly improved grant scheme, it is an expression of crocodile tears. And as I pointed out in a reply earlier: when the government of the Left claims that the students in total have come out worse, it is in conflict with the views of the students' own organizations. For us it has been important to keep the promise to the students. So over to some more summarizing points of view. The university and higher education sectors face major challenges in the coming years in implementing the quality reform. In this context, the working party emphasises increased appropriations for both conversion and research activities. The conversion work will involve, inter alia: extended academic year, new evaluation forms, new characterisation system, new study programmes with new degrees and an overall focus on quality-enhancing the overall activity. That institutions had preferred to see additional funds earmarked for conversions, I take as a positive sign of a high level of ambition and that there is a willingness to change and improve. The need for resources to succeed is something we must in any case consider at the next budgetary round. In this context, I would also like to point to the fact that the increased freedom of universities and colleges has been granted delegated powers. It is important that these simpler and faster respond to changing needs in society. The Ministry has further developed a new financing model for the sector which could provide a good basis for predictability in the funding of universities and higher education institutions. It is positive that there is a turning of focus from inputs and over towards results, and that a partial distinction is introduced between the allocations for education and research. I consider it certain that there will be a need for adjustments in the model when the experience and the numerical basis improve. In the field of higher education research, I would like to stress the allocation of strategic priority research, scientific equipment, research recruitment and new scholarship positions and not to forget, new professorates who are earmarked for women. The working party shares the objective of stepping up Norwegian research efforts to a minimum average OECD level by 2005. It is important to increase public budgets both through the provisions of the Research and Innovation Fund and through direct appropriations over the budgets of the various departments. At the same time, it is essential that industry be further stimulated for increased research efforts, among others. for tax deductions on R & D investment. Following a request from a majority of the Stortinget, the Stoltenberg Government proposed in the harvest a tax deduction scheme for research investment as an alternative to the FUNN scheme based on grants. We have joined the expansions that the new government has made in the tax deduction scheme. We see it as important that there is the widest possible consensus on the arrangements and thus predictable for business. However, I would like to point out two points. One concerns enterprises that have now started projects with funding from the grant scheme, which either fall outside the rules on tax deductions or have problems with liquidity. Here I would ask the Council of State to consider whether the need for these companies can be met. It is otherwise my opinion that the FUNN scheme has been well received by the users and has worked effectively in the short time it got to live. Perhaps we should consider together whether a grant scheme also included among the incentives for more research. The Research Council plays a central role in research policy. The allocation of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the Council shall contribute to increased value creation in the economy and to the development of a competitive business throughout the country. Of course, the Labour Party must deal with the framework adopted for our budget area. Within these frameworks, it has not been possible to cover again the cuts made by this government in the allocations of the direct economic and user-driven programmes under the auspices of the Research Council. It was now claimed from a different perspective and from business that there are no funds for new contracts, and I can only encourage the State Council of Clement to test the effects of a significantly lower allocation in this area. It is important that direct business-oriented user-driven applications do not stop. Education and research are crucial for society and our future. It was a bad signal from the Government and the Clemet Council to make this a balancing item in the budget. I hope both the Council of State and the Government have a higher level of ambition at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e977	I have, of course, noticed that a majority in the Committee of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party want to make changes to the draft budget that the Government has made. And although I don't agree with all the priorities you want to do, of course I take note of that. What happens is that the majority wants a more generous study funding model faster than the Government has set up and proposed in the 2002 budget. From the point of view of the students, one might say that it is now possible to get a model that is worse than the cooperative government has committed itself to implementing during the period – it is worse than SV’s model, but it is better than the Labour Party’s and Advance Party’s model and the model that the Stoltenberg government proposed, and at one point it is probably worse than all the models the students have seen now, because it involves monthly payments. What might then be problematic for anyone, is that the introduction of such a model, even if it does not take place before 1 November, has to be financed, and therefore it also has a price. In the light of the comments made both in the debate and in the vote, and because of the fact that the Government is, of course, bound by the Financial Regulation, I feel the need to make some comments on some of the cut proposals submitted by the Committee on Budgets. Firstly, a relatively significant cut is proposed for the Loan Fund. This happens at the same time as changing the study funding model in the middle of a semester and introducing a conversion scheme, and I recall that the addition that was there by the Stoltenberg government was linked to the introduction of a conversion scheme. I refer to the board’s opinion in this regard and would just say that this cut is most likely to have to be taken on the operating budget, which could mean reduced staffing and go beyond information, service, new ICT system, etc. in the Loan Fund. The second concerns primary school exams, which many debaters have been involved in here today. The cut-off proposal presented means that you cannot maintain a central and external censorship of the written examination. This means, in order to be a little more specific, that the information that has emerged in the evening post today, which tells us something about the results of the written test, among other things. That almost 30 pst. of the students score 1 and 2 for exams, is an information that we don't want in the future. This cut-off proposal will, of course, have implications for the examination system, possibly for the regulatory body, for agreements with teacher organisations, etc., and there will be special challenges for the department related to 2002, where the take-off test has already been notified and the school leave has been set. But this has to be assessed by the department. In the case of minority language pupils, I see that the majority of the Committee ‘provides that the provision of training is not impaired’. But in my opinion that is not possible. The allocation is now, in my opinion, not realistic. The cut would therefore have to lead to a reduction in the grant rate, and this would lead to additional costs for municipalities, possibly reduced offers. Personally, I think this is unfortunate, because the PISA survey that many people have also referred to today shows that we're not actually getting very good out of it, but we're getting bad out of caring for minority-speaking students. This item includes native language training, specific Norwegian training and training for children in state asylum recipients, and we will then need to assess how the cut should be done. In the case of the State Education Administration, it has been subject to cutbacks for very many years. Training offices should be included in the county offices and future tasks should be considered in this respect. The Committee says a part about the priorities of the education directors, but I believe that the Storting wants the education directors to continue to exercise the supervision, the legality control and the review procedures provided for by the Training Act, the Private Schools Act and the Municipal Law. In the case of landlines and student housing, it is well mentioned by others during the debate. As I said, I take note of this, and of course I will also try to follow this up loyally, but on some points it is not entirely unproblematic. I have outlined some problems now, and I allow myself to make reservations about possibly coming back to Stortinget with further information. That being said, a government council must look beyond today and the current problems. My and the Government's ambition is to contribute to increased quality throughout the education and research system. It is necessary if we are to achieve the goal that the Government has also set itself, and which I think we share with many, namely that we want to stay close to knowledge, competence and new technologies in Norway. If we're going to do it, we need to know what goals we want to achieve. We need to know what quality is. It's not just about professional performance, it's also about it. We have to allow ourselves to make assessments and measurements of both individuals and systems. Although Finland, which has been mentioned here, does not have primary school examinations, they have a comprehensive system of national testing. And we have to, no matter how large a resource effort, try to improve the relationships between resource input and results. With regard to initial training, I believe that the results obtained from the recent OECD study are alarming. It's a reminder that if we don't even care about the results we achieve, someone else will. In this case, it's the OECD, and that's the OECD we're dealing with in terms of the research we want to step up. In summary, this study shows that we have a very high resource use in Norway, and the length of training is extensive in relation to many other countries, but the professional performance and creative problem-solving ability in Norwegian and mathematics in this case, and real science otherwise, which is well in line with our curricula, are only average. Perhaps the most alarming thing is that in Norway there are very large differences between strong and weak students. So our goal of conducting customized training has not been as successful as we would have liked. That, I think, is an alarming result of this research report, which I stress is very solid and comprehensive. We also have problems with minority language students. We have disciplinary problems, and the study shows, according to the researchers, that we have a little too little use of what they call constructive learning strategies. I think we as adults have an obligation to engage in this. We have an obligation to give our children the best possible education for the future, for life and for the working life. The government has started. We've done something through the budget. It is not very extensive in relation to a budget that changes over two to three weeks, but we have proposed increased hours, increased measures against bullying and problem behaviour in school, and increased bets for, among others. to stimulate girls to take a real-life job. We have recently set up a public sample, a quality committee, which will review the entire 13-year initial training cycle to see how we can get more overall, coherence and quality in this training cycle. And the Storting might be familiar with that we've also asked the sample to evaluate a shorter race. We're going to present a big message on improved teacher training in the spring. We have submitted a note of consultation on this. It involves greater freedom of choice, but more professional immersion, and we focus more on the continuing training of teachers. It is not good that many of our teachers lack teacher training, and that many of those who are teachers lack the depression we would like to see. 50 pst. of the teachers who teach mathematics in primary schools, have zero weights in mathematics. Nearly 9,000 teachers who teach in high school do not have the necessary, or the desirable, I say, depression in the subject in which they teach, so this is a long canvas to pale. I want to bet more on the professionalization of the school manager role. I want to implement a more liberal approach to experimentation in school, and I want to focus more on ICT in education. In the case of higher education, the first task is to implement and implement the very comprehensive quality reform. We're going to follow the content and tempo plans of it, and that means the Storting is going to get a number of issues to deal with in addition to spring, perhaps the most important of which is the proposal for changes in the law on university and higher education. We'll make a couple of adjustments to the previous government. In mid-2002 we will be sending a proposal for a system of a special-law society, which will be voluntary for those institutions which may wish to do so in higher education, following an application to the ministry. However, this should not delay work on quality reform. And we're going to promote a proposal for changes in the private college law of spring to achieve maximum equivalence until a common law comes. As far as research is concerned, we want to continue the escalation plan, focus more on basic research and continue to focus on the four thematic areas, but also focus more on quality. Over the next year, we'll set up a dozen centres of excellent research, and I'll put a lot of emphasis on that. As far as private research is concerned, it must be seen in the context of extending the system of tax deductions, but also with the general tax reliefs proposed by the Government in its State budget, which, of course, make companies better and more able to invest themselves in research and new technologies for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1024	The Council of State did not start its speech with large views for the Norwegian school, but problematised the findings made by the majority of the committee. She did it in such a way that I think there is reason to ask the Council of State whether she has problems living up to the invasions that a large majority of the Grand Duchy has pointed out. When we look at the government's investment in the budget, there's no doubt that what the Right does in government is the same thing as the Right does in the capital, which is very clear cut to education. It doesn't agree with honorary words in this field. There is more money that needs to be done if we are also to be able to raise the level in Norwegian school. And since it may seem that the Right does not get through in its own government for more money to school, I want to ask the Council of State whether it is such that more quality in the future in the Norwegian school is going to push the teacher's powers, and whether the resources that are currently perceived as small are going to thinn even more. An hour more education and a so-called value project throughout the Norwegian school to 2 million. kr, yes, it seems that I am puzzled about the offensive bet Right has had in school not only in the election campaign, but also for a long time in opposition. I almost got the feeling that it was Bondevik's value commission that was joking when I heard about this value project in school. But that can't be true, because I remember that Kristin Clement was very strongly opposed to that project. I want to challenge Kristin Clemet on what she would have wanted to add up with the value project that a majority today will vote for, and I also want to hear a little bit about how the council thinks about it as the minority in the committee adds, with a bonus scheme of five million. NOK to reward some schools that do a good job. I also want to get a deepening of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1034	When it came to my post, I explained a few times that of course I take note of the will of the majority of the population, but I think it is my duty to inform them about the consequences the proposals may have. I also tried to do that. With regard to the challenges at school, the representative, Mr. Bekkelem Orheim, expressed that something should be done, only more money is involved. I don't agree with that. I believe that more resources are needed for the school, more resources for education and research, but I also feel that the person who thinks it's just about resources will be disappointed. We're already at the top of the world when it comes to spending money on basic training, and we're going to spend more, but I also think you have an obligation to try to make better use of the money and get more quality for the money. Quality does not just mean professional performance. It means a lot different too, but it means that you have to get something left for the resources you use. I just think it's a wrong attitude to have, that you think you can solve all the problems with more money. Just let me give you one example: lack of teachers who have the qualifications we want is, of course, not solved by just granting more money now. It is quite a long-term work that deals with teacher training, continuing training, motivation to take teacher training and to remain in the profession. For that matter, it is about pay, status and authority – and, of course, much more than money. It was therefore interesting that the representative, Mr. Bekkemelm Orheim, mentioned this proposal, which I see the minority have come up with, to establish a bonus scheme. I think actually they've learned a little bit from SV, because this is a system that I think SV is concerned about, and that I think is very interesting. There are too many system errors in the public sector that are about you being rewarded for problems and that you are not rewarded if you solve problems. There is too much of this in the public sector. It's system failure. If one could introduce incentives that were positive, which reward good results, it would have to be much more stimulating for municipalities, for school leaders and for teachers. What SV wanted with this, and what I think the minority wants with this, is to figure out something like this. I would be happy to – and I can do it too!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1041	I have a specific question and a more structured question. First of all, the Council of State shares the concern that we have heard from the right, that this cut to 12.3 million. Is the entire examination scheme raging? Does the Council share the view that the red tape and the remaining apparatus, which in a few appropriate chapters are several hundred million, are not capable of carrying out the examination scheme for primary school students in 2002 in a reassuring, objective, clear and orderly manner? Then to the structural. I have shown several times the experiences of Sweden, which almost ten years ago released free schooling in a completely different way from what we have done here in Norway. I have read, among other things, A series of booklets coming from the NHO, titled: Release the schools! When it is that Sweden achieves better results than Norway, measured by OECD studies, it may be interesting to ask the Council of State whether she still has the same idea that it is wise and wise to release the schools, so that we get freer establishment and greater diversity, and that there is an important step on the way to ensuring better quality and better learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1050	To the first question about these 12 million. There is an attempt to accurately describe the consequences of the cut proposed. The $12 million. kr goes to fees and other costs associated with external censorship of the centrally awarded examination. The Ministry has not yet taken a decision on how to follow up the Committee's comments. But using expressions like it's "fastening the entire examination scheme" doesn't want me to do it. I've had two possible options outlined. One possibility is the conversion of the test of departure into mandatory test positions in all the written subjects, where a specialist assesses the tests and the nature of the test is included in the stand. Such a conversion would require a regulatory change. Another possibility is that the written take-off test is omitted, while the oral take-off test is maintained. In both cases, what falls away is the central and external censorship of the written take-off test. I'm sorry. I'm not saying that it's not possible sometime in the future to think that you're going to drop this and maybe replace it with something else. I think it is, among other things, is interesting to hear about what is happening in Finland. I am personally in favour of a final assessment. In Finland, which is very good in these OECD studies, it is clear that there is not an examination in primary school but a comprehensive system of national testing. I think everyone should be open to evaluate that kind of thing. But in this context, there are no alternatives, as far as I can judge, so there is an attempt at a sober description of the consequences of the cut. With regard to the more structural aspects, I agree with the representative Sortevik that it is always important to engage in it, because I think this is where the source of many of the possible problems you have in the public sector lies – organisational issues, governance issues, regulatory development and financing issues are important, and I am going to engage in this when I am the Council of State. Both Sweden and Finland are better off than we are in many areas. What has been done in Sweden is, as the Blackevik representative says, to release the schools. And to put it simply, we're not going to copy Sweden, but we're also going to release the schools. The government has, among other things: to say that it wants to have a liberal attitude to experimentation, evaluate it and do things permanently if it turns out to be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1057	I'm a little uncertain about what the Council of State concluded with, "May I do it," should be seen as a threat. I didn't see it as a threat. For my part, I would like an investigation, a look at the contents of the school and a proper review. I agree with the Council of State that it's not just a matter of granting more – we probably have to grant significantly more – but it's also a matter of reorganizing and doing things differently. It's all about organizing learning in completely different ways than what we do today. So if that's what's in the "threat," my council has the full blessing of starting to investigate and evaluate and make good, exciting suggestions. So to what I was really going to ask about and comment on. It's on the edge of research. The councils have a seagoing time that we all have. I have four years earlier in the committee, and I've had a lot of talk from Kristin Clemet about how bad we've been in research in Norway, and that's quite right. Then we get a budget proposal from the government of Stoltenberg, which contains an escalation. And the first thing that happens now is that on the direct research appropriations, the Bondevik government cuts, it reduces the industrial research funds. So my question to the council is, does she feel comfortable with the cuts that are made there? There have been some improvements in tax incentives — well, there are obviously large and heavy cuts that cause the Research Council to have problems in entering new contracts in relation to user-driven research, and this is serious. So my question to the Council of State is whether she feels well about what she's done in the past. So another question. I have put in a proposal that goes into the distribution of $18 million. kr to the private schools, that they should be distributed on the basis of previous appropriations, and that we should not start with any changes in the normal costs, which are a little unclear to me as it has been added. Does the Council of State agree with what I have suggested, that we get the kind of distribution of these 18 million to private colleges? And then we might get back to the normal cost later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1066	First, a comment for the last. That increase of 18 million. kr, which we have proposed for private colleges, is linked to a review of the normal costs of individual education and an adjustment of these, and it is a review that took place during the previous government. The Ministry, when doing so, has cooperated with the private higher education network in this review, and the distribution of the increase in the additional proposal thus brings the distribution of budgetary resources more into line with the cost picture of the state higher education institutions. As I understand what SV has proposed, it will not help to balance inequalities between private and public higher education resources within the different education systems. But I can still say to the representative, Mr Rikvam, that we will review the funding of the private universities and come back to the Stortinget with this at the latest in connection with the submission of a common law to private and public universities. As for research and government budget proposals, whether I feel comfortable with it: Yes, I feel comfortable with the draft budget presented by the Government. I feel comfortable with the whole, but I also feel comfortable with the research budget. There is some reduction in nutrient research in relation to the submissions of the Stoltenberg government. Of course, we are continuing the escalation plan. However, the reduction we have proposed must be seen in the context not only of the representative of Reikvam, the tax incentives, but also of what we are doing on the tax side in general. And let me just give you one example: the double taxation of dividends. It was an effective tool to lock resources within businesses — where they had nothing to do — instead of bringing them out of businesses and to other companies and projects and new technologies, and, for that matter, focusing on research. And when we fix it, it could also contribute to increased research efforts. But I will give the representative Rikvam one point: with the short time available when we were going to change the budget, I do not feel that as a research minister, I have been given the complete, coordinating and coordinating approach that has been taken, among other things. can go through the government's research committee, and I'll do that before next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1073	Governments say a part about teacher training as a necessary strengthening area within our schoolwork. I share that, and I think most people in this room share the view that it is necessary to strengthen teacher training, and we look forward to it. What I think the Council of State takes on a little bit of light is this about the use of the school's resources. She repeats several times that here it's about making things more efficient, making things more effective. I want to challenge the Council of States on this issue of evaluation. Because when we talk to the right-hand side about evaluation, you talk first and foremost about exams. However, when I think of evaluation, evaluation is about something that will help the student to progress, so that the student can organise education according to the objectives pursued by the student through an individual evaluation. I believe that one, based on today's school situation, is in fact unable to conduct organized education. In fact, when carrying out an evaluation, there is not enough resources to drive the student forward to achieve its goals. And then my question is, does the Council of State think that there are enough resources in the municipal budgets to run a primary school that is organized for each individual student, depending on abilities and facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1080	It's a natural human factor, and not least a political factor, that you can want more resources. It's clear that each of us in our field will certainly always be involved in politics, and certainly elsewhere, fighting for increased resources. But I think it's wrong just to have looked right at it. And I would like to tell the representative, Mr Schjälaa, that the concept of efficiency needs to be nuanced. When you talk about efficiency improvement, many people think about cost-effectiveness, running faster and getting more out of money. But there's also something called purpose efficiency improvement, that you're able to target resources for the right purpose, that you don't waste your money by working with the wrong things. Let me give you one simple example: if schoolteachers and teachers work too much with forms that may be unnecessary and bureaucracy, rather than working with students, then there is a kind of inefficiency that you should do something about. These are resource issues and efficiency improvements. I think it is completely wrong for politicians like in a country where, after all, we have so high levels of taxation – and now I am not talking about the small differences that, after all, are between the parties here – and such a large public sector, which has said that we are going to deliver so many offers free or tax-financed, not to be interested in the efficiency of resource use. So I'm going to be interested in it no matter how big the frames are. In terms of evaluation forms, I think it may be important both with final evaluation and with in-depth assessment to help with learning. What we have to notice in relation to the question of resources is that a country like this. Finland, which has a system of smaller exams, more extensive national testing, less resource use — but far above the OECD average as well — and larger classes, succeeds in organized education than we do in Norway. I don't know why – there's speculation – but I think we have a duty to be interested in it, because it's a bit daunting that weak students have a harder time in Norway than in a lot of countries we like to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1093	For the sake of the matter, I want a strong Council of State. I think we got it. But it is a fact that the Council of State lost the first round of the Government, not necessarily in rhetoric, but in terms of funds for the sector of education and research. And I'm a little bit uncertain about how I'm going to interpret the Council's answer to a line from Bekkemelm Orheim. I agree that it is not only about money, but also about the organisation and use of it. I got the impression that there was a small reservation when it came to whether the school could look forward to more resources, that one might not be able to get more money for the school sector in the next round either. And when I see the proposals that the Council of State has been concerned with, for example. in one year’s lower education, it may indicate that one is more interested in finding solutions that will save money. One of the areas that have been cut in this round is the lending scheme for school books. By the way, it's a little wrong to call it just a school book lending scheme, because these funds would also be used to produce digital learning materials, so that the educational materials in high school would be free. And then it's disappointing that the government has removed the funds without providing any alternative, which will immediately lead to increased costs for the students, and which clearly gives the impression that this is a saving proposal. For the Workers' Party acts a fair school for everyone, among others. on free learning material. Now I see that the Government will assess the support scheme for high school students, but I will – to clarify – ask the State Council directly: Is the Government in disagreement with the Workers' Party's objective that the educational resources in secondary school should be free?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1102	I do not know what kind of relations the representative Vidar Bjørnstad has with government work and political work, but I notice that he and some of his party traps use rhetoric like ‘to tape’, ‘to win’, ‘to argue in the government’, etc. I do not perceive government work that way. The study funding and the lending mechanism – which the representative Bjørnstad and his affiliates have been particularly concerned with in the amended budget we presented – are two items that are not just about money, but about policies other than money. There are two areas where we have a different view from the Workers' Party on how the arrangements should be. With regard to study funding, we believe that we should not have a conversion scheme of up to 30 pst. And we also thought that we should not introduce the conversion system until the quality reform was in place. We changed this not just for economic reasons, but simply because we're in favour of another model. As far as the lending scheme is concerned, I would like to say that a little at the top does not help to have free learning material – if they are poor. We also have a different view of how students in higher education will receive learning material. We believe that the lending scheme is not a good one. The teaching materials get old, they can't be used as actively by the students as they should, and that's why we're looking for other arrangements. We have said in the Sem Declaration that we want a grant scheme instead. We are now investigating this in the context of investigating the study support system for them in higher education as a whole. But I've told you before from Storting's pulpit that I think we should be open to look at other arrangements, because evolution is tearing. And it's about doing the best possible teaching materials for students – not bad teaching materials, but the best possible learning materials. That is why we are also considering other possible arrangements. And then I have to say that even if we changed a couple of arrangements in relation to the submissions of the Stoltenberg government, we have proposed an increase in hours, we have proposed more to private colleges, we have proposed more to improve the learning environment in school in order to dampen violence, unrest, etc. So I'm satisfied with the budget I've put forward, but I take note of what the Storting decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1115	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1118	The Council of State pointed to problems arising from the priorities of the majority and two proposals for resolving the question of examination. I learned many years ago that there are no problems, but challenges that need to be solved. This means – if my lessons are correct – that the Council of State needs to think again, find new forms of objective testing of students within the framework already there today – the Educational Centre, the State Education Office, etc. Further: Mr. Lyngstad took on board in his reply to me to give an interpretation of the ideas of the Advance Party about compromises and majority proposals that were quite special, but not unexpected. The educational policy of the Progress Party is long-term work, regardless of whether we participate in one or the other majority. I would like to refer to our alternative budget, where country lines, foreign students and students in private higher education are very well cared for, not only in the budget for 2002, but equally in the budget for 2001, for 2000, for 1999, etc. When Mr. Lyngstad then takes on to refer to negotiations that did not lead, it becomes almost a little premature when statements given in secrecy behind closed doors are suddenly referred from the Stortings pulpit. It's unfortunately not the first time, but it affects the possibility of positive cooperation quite considerably every single time this happens. Politics is a majority. Multiplicity means cooperation, and the ability and ability to cooperate depends on whether you can trust or not. Yesterday, it was claimed in ‘Tabloid’ that it burns a blue light for the Norwegian school. It was first amanuensis at the University of Tromsø, Kåre Skagen, who claimed it. This has actually been said by the Progress Party for many years without getting any special impact. We have been informed in the last few days that Norwegian students have less knowledge than students in countries with which we compare. As if not enough, Norwegian children and young people are also fighting most in the classroom. Norwegian children and young people rush much more now than they did a few years ago. Who is responsible for this misery? The teacher team is quite clear that it is the parents who are. Self-recognition does not appear to be part of their professional education. I am inclined to join Kåre Skagen's professional opinion on the basis of the following considerations: When it appears that every fourth student in school does not get the job satisfaction and the training they are legally entitled to, I consider this to be something in the vicinity of an infringement. As responsible politicians, we need to get to grips with this quickly and dryly in a school policy context. The school policy that has been over time by a majority has had these things as a consequence. When I then see a public question as to how well the Teacher Layer as well as the Parent page makes a number of statements without material content, I find reason to respond. For a long time, serious researchers have shown that as many as 10 pst. by Norwegian parents, the fear that teachers will raise their children if they dare to express their distrust of the school's professional competence in terms of trouble and unrest, or to use the Nordahl Committee's own words: Knowledge of preventing learning disorders is a black hole in the world of international knowledge. In this context, I find it serious when the head of the country's largest teacher's organisation presents it as if it were just about parents having to get together and follow up on their children. It is the responsibility of parents to teach their children respect for others, but is it right that respect does not have to be earned by the individual teacher in a school situation? I will not undertake to teach the school, but I am fully prepared to speak to the parents' case when I experience a total lack of self-recognition. Because it cannot be possible for all teachers in Norwegian school to be completely irresponsible when serious researchers reveal that one of Europe’s richest countries seems to have a level of training in line with one of Europe’s poorest countries, namely Greece. On me and on the Progress Party it seems that today's children in Norwegian public school are being taught with yesterday's teaching skills, even though these children are going to take over the administration of the society we leave behind. So I'm going to go over to a relationship that I think it'll be more and more important to put your finger on, that's a necessary reform of prison education, which, over time, in the light of what I said earlier, is going to be a demanding piece of work that needs to be put in both resources and competences in relation to. Developments in society show that more and more young people are committing some serious crimes, with long penalties. These are young people who are under the Training Act, and they are entitled to education whether they are in prison or outside. Prison education today appears with many non-competitive courses, without the necessary professional linkage that allows young people to have their exams. On page 79 of St.prp. No 1 it says: ‘Teaching contracts are less drawn and theoretical instruction is taken to obtain professional letters as practical candidates than in the previous year.’ This should be a warning signal. Prison education is as theoretical as the ordinary high school, and will not capture the practical good students – call them school losers – who are overrepresented here. The Progress Party will request that, especially for young prisoners, a course of expertise be given according to curriculums with a practical and theoretical design in the future. This, I think, will be one of the most important elements of the rehabilitation policy that we need to pursue. Then go to the Mjøs Committee. When dealing with the position of the Mjøs Committee in spring, it became, as it is now, a varying majority for some things. The Progress Party so quickly that the Workers' Party had done half our study funding from our program, and then presented it as its own thought. Because the Progress Party did not want to get into the situation – which is otherwise well known – that it voted against its own programme formulations, it became the majority for the study funding at that time. It is therefore inexplicable that the new Council of State chose to take a rematch on this particular subject. This point of the Progress Party programme must under no circumstances remove the focus from students in private higher education and foreign students. In the past, the Progress Party has made proposals for economically equivalent treatment of quality-based education. With the framework allocated to us, this is an impossibility this year, also for 2002. And I get bored when it's not possible to get an equivalent financial balance for all young people in education. Fee grants, both nationally and outside the borders of Norway, are further reinforced by monthly payments of student loans to students. If a fee grant is not granted, this will mean that we only have one education chain left, that is, the public, and that does not want the Progress Party. So we're going to show that we were keeping these issues in our alternative budget, and we're going to keep working on this. Furthermore, it is clear that Giske’s quality reform from in ours will cost money – a lot of money. It is therefore regrettable that the necessary funds are no longer there, but rather – in order to use the words of former State Council Lilletun in a matter of competence reform – that the road will be made as we go. And that way is still not ready, we famble. As far as the University of Oslo is concerned, the Progress Party has taken note of the funding model for higher education, which is not a discussion theme, as provided for in the treatment of the suspension of the Mjøs Committee. As far as the University of Bergen is concerned, another precarious situation has arisen. Everyone knows that marine research is an adopted field of activity. This will require the establishment of peripheral zone companies. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and we hope that this will find its order in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1166	Schools, education and research are the highest priority area for SV. In its alternative budget, SV increased the framework for the KUF by nearly NOK 3.4 billion compared to the Government’s proposals. Investing in education is the most important step we have to take to ensure that we become a leading nation internationally. To invest in education is to combat class divisions and create more justice, and it is an important means of eradicating poverty in Norway. It is important for SV to ensure that children and young people are safe and healthy growing conditions. The aim of primary school is to provide all children with a common platform and good growth conditions in a secure environment. It's giving each and every child – both the schooly Siv, who's good at reading, May, who can't read, Lise, who can't concentrate, and Step, who has problems at home – a good start in life. We are responsible for giving each child good development opportunities, so that they can be involved and develop their creativity. All children will be able to meet an increasingly complex world. There are many skilled teachers and many capable students, but what's missing are the tools. And the challenges in Norwegian school are great. In the election campaign, all the parties promised a strong commitment to school. The parental reaction, the pupil councils and the youth councils around the country have all made it clear that the public school is neglected. Buildings fall almost down, pools are closed, school kitchens are closed, gymnasiums are closed, and even windows are closed in many schools. 350 students occupied a few days ago the town hall in Tromsø to show that the schools they go to, don't hold the goal, that the schools are too bad. SV proposed in its alternative budget to strengthen the local economy by DKK 4 billion in order to improve schools. I agree that more efforts need to be made in public schools. We have to look at the learning material situation, we have to see if we can restructure. But what you can't come from is that you have to give the municipalities more money to meet the criteria for a good school. A unanimous committee has agreed that the free principle in primary school should become a real principle. This is an important victory for SV, and this also obliges us. This does not only apply to the investment that has now been made in the camp school. It is a step in the right direction, but as I said, the local economy needs to be strengthened. One thing that hasn't been up in the debate before, but that's very important for SV, is the school leisure system, SFO. We are very pleased that this time we have got the Workers' Party in a comment that you should have a roof in terms of the price of the SFO. And we're going to have to go on working in the period of quality raising of the school leisure system, so it doesn't just become a storage facility, as it is in many places. The State budget clearly shows the priorities of the different parties on the Stortinget and the visions of the future. In its budget, the government has removed support for school books in high school. I have asked the question earlier, but in a way I have not become wiser. It may seem that the government is missing out on free education in high school. The government wants to look at the issue of money for school books in high school, but you don't commit to it. In its alternative budget, SV added 400 million. NOK to this. Politics is prioritizing, it's credibility, and it's predictability. We keep what we promise. We had an alternative budget where we greatly increased the appropriations for the education sector. In this regard, we have taken responsibility within the framework set by the Government in terms of education. It's been tough, but we're satisfied with the change and rotation of the budget we've managed to achieve. A grant of 40 pst. is very important to us, and an income-grade repayment of the student loan is also very important. The cost standard increases from 69 000 to 80 000 kroner per year. This is a victory. The possibilities in the negotiations have been met. But we're not satisfied. SV will continue to work to get a study funding that is even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1199	In the proposal for the 2002 State Budget, the Government proposed a bet for the Norwegian Church. The most important thing was the proposal to increase the number of new performances from five, as proposed by the Stoltenberg government, to 35. Of other important proposals, I mention the proposal that the government proposal to the ecclesiastical councils should continue as a direct appeal to the councils. In addition, we added the 2 million proposal. kr for pilot and development actions before the baptismal training in the Norwegian Church. I've noticed, and I'm glad that a joint committee in the budget setting underlines that the baptism training in the Norwegian Church is an important commitment to keeping up a wide and engaged church. The Committee even sees it as an important task to strengthen baptismal training. Hence, life and learning together is poor when the majority of the committee won't be on a 2 million prize. kr to test and development measures in the field of doping training. Of course, the future design of the baptism training in the Norwegian Church is a major issue, which I will present to the Stortinget for careful handling later. We're going to have a 2 million. For this purpose now would be a concrete signal to the Norwegian Church that the Stortinget sees baptism training as an important field for the years to come. If I'm surprised by the proposal from the majority in the committee at this point, I'm even more surprised that the majority is proposing the rights to the achievement reduced by 14 million. kr. This results in that we do not get the increase in the number of performances next year that the Government posted. This is not good, because I know that the Church's need for new settings is great. Many priests have a very stressful and demanding work situation, and it is a problem that many people are not allowed to take out the free time they should have and that they are legally entitled to. It was a good step in the right direction when the new pastors' leisure contract went into effect from 1 April this year. This is an agreement of the department of Stoltenberg government and trade union there were some about. But without practical arrangements, it does little to help. The 35 new performances, in addition to the 35 that were put in place for the current year, would have been an important measure to help with this situation. I thought it was thought that the majority in the committee could not join the proposal of the Government here. It is alarming that the majority have no greater respect for the agreement between the ministry and the tradesmanship of the clergy. I would also like to remind you that this year the Stortinget dealt with a big message about the economy in Kyrkja. From this message it is clear that there is a need for new performance settings. The Stoltenberg government, which provided the message, would go in so that for years to come, there would be a significant increase in the number of new performance settings. When the Church, Education and Research Committee dealt with the paperwork, members from among others showed that: The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre have shown that in recent years there has been an ever-increasing pressure on the work force of the priests, and that an increase in the performance and working environment of the priests is therefore important for the church sounds and the church sound work. When, at first instance, in the 2002 government budget, the government follows this by proposing a larger increase in the number of paroles, the same parties go against it. Both Church and I have after this good reason to express both wonder and hopelessness. In addition, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee is in favour of reducing the appeal of the Church Councils in 2002. The majority suggests that the permissions should be 100 million. kr. Government proposal worth 112 million. kr, which is a continuation of the level from 2001. In the generally tight and difficult economic situation of most church councils, the proposal of the majority in the Committee would seem very negative. It is very negative that the plurality could not be included here in the proposal to strengthen the Church’s local work. Of course, I am aware that the majority believe that the reductions in the church budget should be able to be corrected to the spring of the revised national budget. The solution pointed out by the majority of the committee is to use the information society fund's return. In general, I would like to remind you that the fund is not a Sarepta pot that never becomes empty. The disposable return from the fund is closely linked to the development of the financial markets and to the extent of other expenditure obligations of the fund. In addition, we want to secure the real or the basic value of the fund – a goal that was widely debated during the treatment of the news of the economy in the Church of Stockholm this year. Without regard to questions about the use of the fund: Church and I have to take note of what is the reality of the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The church budget will be reduced by more than 27 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Government. I must say that on behalf of Kirkja I had hoped for a better result in the handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1217	Let me do the last one first. Our Council of Churches says that we must allocate funds to the councils of the municipalities; the municipalities cannot take responsibility for prioritising the council. It is strange that municipalities can give priority to health, they can give priority to the small children, the large children, the elderly, but in this particular area there is no confidence that the municipalities will give priority. In the forthcoming debate on state and church, we are many in the Workers' Party who have a strong commitment to the peoples' churches of the future. I'm looking forward to that debate, because that's where we're going to be. To me, it's uplifting; it's a good perspective that we have a young and female church council – relatively young, at least she's female – because then you can have the hope that the Christian People's Party will join in and renew and open the church room. I would like to ask the Council of State to say a little about the progress made in setting up the Bakkevig Committee, and also a little about how she takes care of the consultation round and the treatment in advance of the Storting's treatment of the Bakkevig Committee's setting. How does the Council of State think that affected people throughout the country, the entire Church of the People, will be able to participate in and speak in advance of the treatment of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1228	I thank the representative Nielsen for her question. I'm also very concerned that we should have a good and open church. I also believe that we are dependent on having a good baptismal training in order to have it. So I'm going to start by stressing how disappointed we are that the Workers' Party could not help us set up a trial plan when it comes to baptism training. When it comes to the Bakkevig selection, it is a selection that the Church itself has mentioned. The selection will deliver its own during the spring. This option should be applied to wide-ranging listening throughout Church-Noreg. It's natural, I think, that they turn to the part of society that has brought them up, namely the Norwegian Church. They will then make a audition for the Church Council, which at the Church meeting in the autumn will probably get the first debate on the setting from the Bakkevig selection. Then I think it'll be natural that we also get a public-appointed church commission, which can go through the Church Council's input and the Bakkevig selection's setting and the listening recordings that come from church sounds all over the country. We have plenty of time when this is the case, because if you want a distinction between the state and the church, you have to change the constitution. This process therefore needs to take some years. I would like to stress that I am of course open to the recordings that come from the Church. I want to take it with me. Then we'll have to evaluate the situation of the Norwegian State Church. What is absolutely certain is that if we are to have a good and open church in Norway, baptism training is important, and the economy of the Norwegian Church is important. Therefore, I would like to stress that I believe it was right for me to listen to the advice of the Church itself to mark the appeal of the Church Council. But I'm really sorry that the Labour Party has been cutting down $12 million. kr on that entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1239	Two things to the Council of State: One is the fund of the Information Society. I assume that the Council of State has taken the position, page 43, that there is in fact a majority structure in which the Progress Party, together with the Government Parties, is calling for a review of the rules relating to the regulation of the fund's basic capital, and not least to be incorporated into the fund's laws governing the future use of the fund. In this way, we will show that what we are now using for balancing in 2002 is an emergency solution. We admit that there is an emergency solution, but we've also pointed out that there are at least two possibilities here. We have a chance to get back into revision, but there's also a rare chance for those who are hit by cuts here, to turn around and find funds elsewhere. In fact, there are few of those who get budget cuts, who have the opportunity to turn elsewhere. And then to the regret that you used the first opportunity to cut and remove performances. I feel that there is a problem that we can also turn around, related to scholarships. We can also argue that the Bondevik government used the first opportunity to remove what it was a political majority for at the end of the previous session. Then there was a political majority who wanted to increase the grant share, and it was also followed up by the government that put forward the first budget, in line with majority decisions in the Stortinget. And then we can turn this around and say that the Bondevik government used the first opportunity to remove the long-prolonged and long-promised increase in the grant share in the budget – you can just as well put that point of view. If you want to make adjustments within a button frame, so we have to do within the budgetary system we're living after, someone gets something, while others get a reduction. This time we have chosen to give priority to the scholarships. There was a visible priority at the end of the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1248	First, I would like to welcome the comment that the Progress Party is making on the use of the Information Society's fund. And that's what's paradoxical, that there's kind of a framework here for the use of the funds that the Advance Party has with another multiple, and the question is how do we cover all of this through the fund, once we've already charged the fund an extra 15 million. kr for additional expenditure by financing the municipal housing. We can add up to $15 million. We don't know yet, because this is dependent in a lot of cases of returns. We can't do what the Central Party representative said in his post, and only increase the rate of return. There must be a return before we can get something. We are then pleased that we have had an intrusion on which the Progress Party is involved. And then about using first terms. I said in my post that we used the first opportunity to add 30 new settings – I mentioned in so far as not the aspect of the Advance Party used to remove them again. But we did this because our pastors' organization, together with the ministry, have signed a pastor's leisure agreement, which requires 30 new positions more than the five new positions that the Stoltenberg government found available, so that the pastors actually have to keep the leisure contract that they have signed and that they need so badly. That was what I thought was important to get in place. In the case of scholarships, students with what the Bondevik government has proposed will be better off next year than they do this year. We've promised 40 pst. the grant share over the four-year period, but we would first get rid of the negative of the conversion system that the Stoltenberg government stands for, a system that is very unsocial. So those who cancel out on exams, with the new system, will get less in loans for next year than they'll get by following our setup. And then we want to fill in with new percentages on the scholarship part, and I'm sure that over the four-year period we've kept our word in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1257	Just a little comment on the very last one. You said the exact same thing four years ago, that you had to add up to 40 pst. scholarship share. We stayed at 30 pst. You don't keep words that time, but maybe the situation can change now, so that we can believe you'll keep words about the scholarship this time. But to avoid the same situation, we helped introduce 40 pst. So at least we're sure to keep our words. So to what goes on at the Norwegian Church. It may seem like when you hear the Council of State, that the Norwegian Church is largely made up of prestige positions – and thank you for not just that! The Norwegian Church is much more than that, and we'll be happy for that. With regard to the earmarked funds, I regret that they were not included in the framework – that they came back as earmarked funds. I think it is absolutely crucial for the Norwegian Church and the local communities that they are able to join forces with the rest of the community on the municipal funds. That is, we need a municipalisation of the Church to activate it locally, so that they do not just sit and expect the funds to come from central governments. When it comes to baptismal training, we're clear. We're going to have a big message, we're going to deal with it, we're going to put the frames, and we're going to put strong leads on how doping is going to be. But we're waiting for the big news and we're expecting to get it in the spring. So to our solution in terms of performances and slide constellations. We have assigned the fund and said that it will be a good way to finance this. When I heard the Council of State, I wondered if she was really interested in implementing this – whether she was willing to use the funds as the majority of people here have said. I think the Council of State should answer that question. Will she take this seriously? Will she go in and use funds from the fund so that we can create more jobs, as we have pointed out? Or does she think it's not so important to get more jobs, to get this done, so she won't – that the fund should be untouched, that collecting taxes on the earth is more important than using it for new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1275	I have noticed that SV's approach to the study funding is to make it worse for some people to do better for others, instead of waiting for us to have a stepping-up plan that would have been a good arrangement for all the students in the long term. It's a priority SV has done. It has been a little strange to be here in the Chamber and listen to SV this time; for the first time they have had to defend a budget where they have not only been able to stand proud of what they have meant, but they have had to make a compromise. And this is part of the compromise that SV has been on, which, in my opinion, is very bad. So to the positions in the Norwegian Church. I am fully aware that it is not just performance they need – we have e.g. Diacons, we have cathekets, and we have a bunch of others as well. But for the government, it was actually important to follow up the leisure agreement that the Preste Association signed with the ministry. In the next round – when we present a big message about baptismal training – we need to come up with a new escalation plan when it comes to other options. We need some new settings, especially in relation to the catekets, but also in relation to the diaconia. Now, probably the result for next year is going to be bad. What we could have done this year isn't safe to do. We depend on what one can get out of the fund. It's very uncertain. As the representative probably knows, the return of the fund is very uncertain. We've already said we're going to spend $15 million. kr. more. I don't want to make numbers today for what we can get out of the fund, but we know there's a multiple that means we shouldn't lose the fund so it gets smaller. The money here – some think they're their church, and others think they're their state – is to be used for church relations. But it's the first time that you've been asked to pay the prestige, which is the responsibility of the state, from the funds of the fund. With this we will get less money for the ecclesiastical operation of the return of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1283	I want to come back to the performances, because I also asked myself the question, after hearing the statements of the Council of State, whether she will follow up what the majority of the Committee says, in relation to the Information Society's fund, and set up these posts. I think it is very serious if the Council of State does not do as the majority of the committee says in this matter. It's not long since I myself was in the priesthood, it was before I got into the Stortinget, and I never think cut is anything good, not for the Church either. But what I feel is that we've done in relation to these performances and the slide constellations, it's just to shift them for six months. There is a clear communication from the Committee on the financing of these posts. I expect the Council of State to follow it, but I should like to have a clear and clear answer as to whether the Council of State will follow the majority of the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1288	If the Skjellera is amazed at my answer, I am very surprised at the behaviour of the Skjellera in this matter. He sent out a press release two days before we presented our budget, where he demanded 13 new performances from the government, with the comment that he didn't think we would follow it up. But we did, and the first difference is to go against these positions. So I'll be able to answer in relation to the use of the fund. It is already decided that the fund should finance the municipal housing. Here is an annual additional cost of 15 million. kr. So the majority of the committee believes that one should also transfer more than 27 million to the state budget. kr in the context of the revised national budget. Today, it's actually impossible for me to tell you how to find an invading for these. I can't answer that today, because I don't know how much we're going to use. What is important for me to stress is that there are expected to be modest gains in securities this year, developments in the financial market have weakened the value of financial capital, so that in this situation it is highly uncertain whether it is possible to find these 27 million. kr as the plural asks us to find. So I can't answer any more clearly. It's not the will, but I don't know if we have so much money to get. In addition, the Committee also states – and these two positions should correspond – that we should not conflict with the basic requirements that the value of capital should not be impaired. If these two things are to be seen in context, we may not have the money that the multiple asks for. If one had supported the Government's proposal, the Intersect could have been quite sure that these 30 new performances had come in. But as the situation is for the fund today, I can't answer that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1295	Governments wonder why the majority could not trust that the government would raise the scholarship to 40 pst. in the course of four years. The background is that when there was more money for use in Stortinget, approx. 2 billion kroner, did not prioritize the government and government parties to increase the grant to 40 pst, but they prioritised tax credits for those who already have the most. Obviously, it was important for the Workers' Party to increase the scholarship, so convert loans into scholarships and get a percentage of 40. There was actually a multiple for in the previous stacking, as that also SV supports the increase in the percentage. I thought it was a very big challenge on the part of the Government to challenge a multiple in the Storting on exactly the 40 pst. So that's the background. These 40 pst. was very important to those who were in multiples, and those who are in multiples today. One doesn't trust that there will be a scheme here, when one didn't prioritize this year, when one had so much more money to spend. So to the economy of Kyrkja. Governments make it a point that the Labour Party has been involved in cutting off on the first occasion. The work force increased performance in the last year especially, and we also had an increase this year. But when the first thing I was talking about, scholarship, not being overreached, we saw the need to make some changes and say that this can be returned by the Government, they can find coverage for these performances in the revised national budget. Because I fully agree that there is a need for more performance positions in the Norwegian Church, even if a person talks about the future – but not least to observe the rules that have been agreed upon by a trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1302	Now I am responsible for loans and scholarships under a government council other than me, but I still have no difficulty in defending what the government has done. What was important for this government was actually changing these unsocial conversion rules that the Labour Party stood for. In fact, we think that it must be possible for those who are not quite able to follow the course of study, also to be able to get loans and scholarships, and that not everything should be converted into loans. For us, the first point was to change it, and then we said we wanted to step up the scholarship part from 30 to 40 pst. during the four-year period. Now we know, and take note, what the Storting will decide. But it has cost, and one of the sectors it goes over is the Norwegian Church. It is my duty as the Church's supervisor to do what has gone wrong when the Workers' Party, which the reply holder represents, prioritises students, and falsically also prioritizes that some students should get the worse. These priorities have gone beyond one sector, and that is the Norwegian Church. In fact, I believe that in relation to the debate on separation between church and state, in relation to baptism training and in relation to the plural budgets around the councils of our municipalities, it was important for me to stress that prioritising as the plural has done has violated the leisure agreement that the ministry signed at a time when the representative of the Frøiland Party put in a responsible position in government. The appointment is not serious. I am quite aware that for the current year we received 35 new performance settings. It had to be in place for the agreement to come into effect. This year, the workers party government wanted to prioritise only five. There will be 30 performance settings too small, and it will go beyond those added. Thus, they cannot trust the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1311	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1314	The government's amended proposals to the challenge budget are a disgust seen from the fact that the election campaign in the fall became a competition for which party would be the most interested in challenge and competence. I find that the government of Bondevik failed in extra freedom of trade chose to cut hard work and research significantly. There is absolutely no reason to be content with it, but the reconciliation between the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and the Labour Party shows, on the other hand, the willingness to strengthen efforts within the challenge area. In this house and in this room, probably the school day may seem distant and a little concrete. But there is no lack of feedback. It's mostly not a day without the media breaking up with misery when it comes to the level of competence of the students, the miserable working environment and the poor teachers. And many politicians throw themselves at this wave. Yes, I don't want to criticize it, but I feel that this debate is too nuanced. It's well documented that the standard of our school building doesn't meet our goal, but we're going to wake up so we don't generalise it. When it comes to the quality of teachers and students, I'm probably more nuanced than we're often presented through measurements and surveys. Statistical material can be used for so much, and it's true that the school can't rise to a higher quality than what the teacher is raising to. That means that the most important factor, in other words, is the human factor. That's why it's important to grab hold of the teacher education, as the government also announces. In these days, municipalities and county councils spend the last time on their budgets for the next year. It's not a merry job for our local politicians, and I get a lot of feedback about big cuts in municipal and county budgets. We know that schooling and exorcism are necessary. Multiple municipalities have less population base than before, and this results in less tax revenue for them. And then it's important to make impact assessments of what kind of sequences this will get for businesses that are going to apply to everyone, regardless of housing. We see a tendency for alleys to be laid down and private schools to be established. The question becomes whether it is that the private schools do not have the same financial pressure on themselves as the public. Several municipalities fear a sluggish supply of training for further training next year. And it's a real fear if the county doesn't get a fair statement in connection with the state taking over the hospitals from 1 January next year. During the last week's budgetary procedure for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it was agreed that, in the context of the revised budget for 2002, the Government would return with a proposal for such a fair figure. These days we can enjoy good sports performances on the handball court. In addition, we have seen good results in the ski trail, and the good results in the alpine hill showed up yesterday. Many of the practitioners have taken the further education on the landline, where they have combined challenge and top sport. I note that a majority in the Committee consider the system of landline to be important and that they are satisfied that the scheme is being passed on. However, when a multi-annual figure reduces this budget item by 30 million. kr, it is not said that the offer will disappear. The background to having the landline system is that these services are specifically cost-required. Several offers have been introduced in the last few years without one having assessed whether the scheme has worked according to the purpose. Furthermore, there are some who believe that today's takeover order is a little fair and satisfying. That is why it makes sense for the majority to stop a little and ask for a full review of the Landline Code in the revised budget for 2002. This will also provide an overall review of the structure of the landline supply. I am surprised to note that the State Secretary in the department through TV 2 has already made an evaluation and assessment of this issue. This has caused great unrest all around the country, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1337	The President will inform you that with the speakers, including the 3 minute speeches, we have a speaking time of around 1:00 p.m. 15th If there are no more speakers, the President will aim to complete the vote immediately after the debate. However, if there are a number of 3 minute speeches in addition to those that have arrived, we will continue the debate at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1340	I would just like briefly to make the previous speaker aware that it is probably not the statements of the Secretary of State and the Department that make the students at the national lines concerned, but that it is cut off by the majority, which makes the students – for good reason – concerned. 15 pst. the conversion of the study funding was not the primary position of the SV, according to the representative Rikvam. But when Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party told the majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee that they should jump, it was that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Rune J. Küllaaen, Rolf Reikvam and even Kristin Halvorsen made a little jump – for the husband of political curvature you have to look for a long time. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim said that the Cooperative Government will have to learn from day to day what it means to have to cooperate. But unlike the Workers' Party, we are the basis of our policies for that cooperation. We let it rule if it becomes a cooperation or not. If we do not agree with the Progress Party on a political course, it will not be an agreement either, precisely because we do not agree. We don't change our policy in a late night hour to make the Progress Party a team. This year, both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have done so. Both the SV and the Progress Party talk very much about their alternative budgets, but it is not the alternative budgets of the Centre Party, the SV or the Progress Party that are adopted tonight, that is the budget they came up with. And the only way SV this year has helped to fulfill their election promise to put children and young people first is simply by putting children and young people in line only when it's going to be cut in the budget. The budgetary balance between the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party has been totally blind to conducting symbolic policies. They want to put in place a scholarship scheme for some of the students two months before the cooperation administration had agreed to start the escalation. So to get to this, they've cut 12.8 million. kr in Norwegian and native language training for minority students in primary school. They're gonna kill 26 million. kr on the construction of student housing. And, not least, they're introducing a conversion system that's very biased in social terms. The representative Beckemelm Orheim spoke warmly against bullying and racism at school. Still, she has no concern about introducing a cut of almost 13 million. kr on language training, as the Labour Party has said, is an important part of the work against racism. The representative Heikki Holmås of SV has earlier taken up the question of the construction of student housing from this intercom in the Questionnaire and stressed how important it was to reach the goal of 1000 built dwellings per person. years. So anyway, the $26 million is going to be cut. kr that the Government had just added to meet the target of 1000 student housing per year. Both the representative Giske and the rest of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre promised that conversion would not take place until the quality reform was in place. It is also stated in the brochure that came from the department of Giske. However, they are now introducing a conversion scheme, and they are leading the students behind the light. The representative of Bjørnstad claims that the Workers' Party has delivered. The Workers' Party has not done that. The student organisations called it just a few months ago a historic breach of promise that they now agreed to a conversion scheme. To be able to hit the chest with a grant of 40 pst. for some of the students, the majority have been quite active in what would be called a ostrich policy – excuse me, President. The cuts hit students in the study period, and that's what's problematic. Money is redistributed from those students who have not standardised the study progress, who are not on the exam, to those who are successful. About a third of all students are either delayed or cancelled in their studies. Those students are getting less scholarships with the proposal of the new majority. The quality reform shall ensure better follow-up, and it may also be natural to look at a conversion scheme, to which the Government provided. But before it is in place, the conversion system can never be anything but an unsocial system that redistributes from those who fail to succeed to those who succeed. The students are cheering neither for this nor for cut in student homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1361	It is the President's opinion that when the representative himself finds reason to apologize for the use of language, she should not use such a language.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1364	As I said to some colleagues in the Rutunden a little while ago, it is actually the fact that the Progress Party on its party program for more than 15 years has had a change in study funding, so we wanted to give a reward to the students who had normal progress in the studies, who concentrated on studying and driving a little less with fixation and other things, and thus finished in normal time. For 15 years, we've said that we're going to reward them for those who, because they might be a little bit late and do other things, spend more time and take up space. Although we are happy to have had an impact on this after having had it on the program for 15 years, it is a little strange that it is with the Workers' Party and SV, and not the Right! It's always been the Right that has talked about rewarding the angry, those who stand on, those who work, compared to those who don't. And so now the representative Eriksen talked about the students who succeed against those who fail. It is not a question of whether or not you are able to carry out the studies in a normal time or not! It is a question of skills, but also to a large extent of self-employment — concentrating on the studies and not doing everything else. In all other situations in society, it's actually the Right who's talking about rewarding those who are industrious, who are on and who are doing great. As far as education policy is concerned, it is suddenly reversed. There's a question of good luck if you do an exam! How the council can defend it, to me, is completely incomprehensible when I have heard some posts by her up for very many years. She's given the impression of exactly the opposite. So here the new government party Right has a very serious internal problem. We are very pleased that we have now implemented such a reform together with the Workers' Party and SV. It became some kind of extra bonus that we think is really nice. That's the result that matters, and the result that matters. And it's a signal to those who are now going to take higher education, that you're being rewarded if you make a real effort, if you stand by and follow up both lectures and studies, etc. Of course, if you're talking about sickness and stuff like that, you have to find schemes that take care of it. – So we are very pleased, after having had it on the party program for 15 years, that it will be implemented. Then we realize that there are some in the government parties that are a little disappointed – that is, among other things. talk about the fact that students abroad may have some minor problems due to the new form of payment. You can fix that. But what I think is strange when some people talk about studying abroad, is why, on a principle basis, the Progress Party's proposal for a foreign budget is rejected. When there is so-called pressure in the domestic economy, as some claim – we no longer think there will be any particular problem, because it is going the opposite way now – and the Norwegian State has a lot of money that cannot be spent in the home country because of pressure in the economy, why in the whole world are we not introducing far more extensive purchases of study places abroad today, without all these notable calculations being charged to tailor economists in the Ministry of Finance? We should be just the country that actively bought universities and colleges in Australia, England, Germany, France, Switzerland, the United States and other countries, and had good grant schemes for foreign studies, so that we also reduced the pressure on our own education system here at home. I think it's sad that the world's richest country, which has good opportunities to make long-term investments in building the skills of the growing family, says no, and says that it's more important that everything should be placed in shares in Coca-Cola and Philip Morris and other companies, instead of being more placed in the competence of young people. We should have been able to assume that expenses incurred abroad are not included in the macroeconomic calculations that are the basis for what you can spend on money here at home. We should see the possibilities of transforming some of that capital into knowledge capital in our young people. I also challenge Kristin Klemet here to start working within the Government to get an impact on a proposal as sensible as a foreign budget of my own.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1389	It is striking how this year’s budget debate in the Committee has made the Christian People’s Party tighten its lips and at times seem insulting. In the meantime, the temperature has been rising, and it may not be so strange. After all, it must be a testament to many good KrFs to sit in government position and uncritically defend a pure Right-wing policy. And everyone knows it's more of the same kind. But despite the lines of division: as a representative of our northernmost country, I must say that I am pleased that an almost collective committee has taken a positive view of the proposal to seek to establish a training offer in technical subjects aimed at young people in internal Finland. Such an offer has many positive elements in it and is an important contribution to meet the competence needs of the region facing so many challenges and opportunities in the Barents Sea. On the other hand, it is very sad that only the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have the power to make a decision that our northernmost part of the country needs a dental study, established in Tromsø. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee has asked for even more paper, more investigations, which, in the case of North Norway, means that the same conclusions that were available in 1999 were humiliated when the previous investigation was presented. The difference from then to now is just that now the need is even greater. As the government parties have expressed it, it seems that you want to set up dental training in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø against each other – that is, a conflict model – which hardly continues the decision-making process. So for fisheries and marine research. Here, the Bondevik II government has really clung to and shaved the budget. Compared to the Stoltenberg Government's proposal, this important sector is losing 30 million. in 2002. It's a solid lifting break. Marine industry has an enormous potential for growth throughout the country. Research is also important in the light of Norway’s position as a future fishing nation, and not least in relation to the limitations that may arise in the resource take-off. Let me change the theme. Next year, when the Bakkevig Committee is set up, Stortinget will take the big debate on church and state. I'm looking forward to that. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to get answers to all the unanswered questions about church and state. What about the future, design and structure of the Church? At present, the debate is going on in the Church's own organs, and here on the Stortinget, we have to find ourselves in slow motion – in respect of the Church's own processes, the Church's own opinions and the Church's inner life. It is essential to stress that this debate is also owned by the great majority of the people of the Church; those who are there two or three times a year. Everyday people must be able to look into the church room and recognize the values and attitudes that mirror elsewhere in society. We who stand with one bone in the old church prayer house culture and the other bone in an inclusive work church want to be good representatives of church life and church work in the local Church and what it stands for. I want to warn against something that I see tending to by the Christian People's Party, namely trying to monopolize church affairs and monopolize the right attitudes of the people's church. In fact, in the People's Church, everyone has the right to vote and each member has the same number of shares. And here at Stortinget, we're going to take care of all the small shareholders and their interests. Finally, I would like to refer to proposal No. 8, from SV, which the members of the Workers' Party will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1412	Through its supplementary proposal to the State budget, the Government strengthened the original draft budget of the Government of Stoltenberg on essential points. Among other things, the church chapter received a significant increase, primary school received funds back to carry out written exams in a traditional way, while at the same time the number of hours in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th classes was increased through the framework transfers to the municipalities, the appropriations for student housing were substantially increased, and there were funds for raising awareness-raising valuables in the school. The review carried out by the Financial Committee further strengthened Framework Area 17 by 139.2 million. kr to maintain direct subsidies to the country lines of secondary school. Unfortunately, the consideration in the committee has led to the budget being almost back where we were. The majority of the Committee has chosen to prioritise a higher proportion of students from 1 November 2002. In order to achieve this, important budget lines have been reduced. This is very regrettable. It is regrettable that the majority chooses to shave the church budget. By reducing the cap. 341 with 14 million. The 30 new posts that had been filled are removed and we are in a situation where the state's obligations relating to the provision of services cannot be fulfilled. The creativity of linking this to the Information Society's fund is with respect to reporting little impressive. It is also regrettable that the majority is 2 million. kr for development work on doping training. The church had earned these funds. It is serious when the majority reduces the specific grant to the Joint Councils by 12.3 million. kr. Everyone knows that the funds of the Municipal Councils are scarce. Now they're making them even more scarce, which will definitely go beyond the activity. I would also like to mention that the minority of the Committee, the government parties, will retain the special grant for privately owned school and church buildings. We note with amazement that last year's Progress Party was pronounced at the end of the budget. S. No The 12 sides 19 and 20, that cutting these means is ‘complicates our objective of equivalent training for all children regardless of the income and wealth of their parents. These members therefore propose to maintain the allocation of Item 75 by 15 million. crowns’.» There is therefore with amazement we note that the Progress Party this year proposes to cut the appropriations completely and thereby hamper its own objective. The majority proposal to cut the landline system by 30 million. kr is highly regrettable. The future of several country lines is now uncertain. Based on the timing, it is impossible to know how to distribute the remaining funds. The note that ‘lines that are specifically cost-intensive or of national importance should be prioritised’ gives few leads within a system in which landlines are established precisely because they are cost-intensive or have national significance. It is regrettable that the examination system in primary school is weakened. For those of us who believe that the examination is important both as part of the learning process and in the overall student assessment, it has been important to maintain appropriations that allow the central censorship of the examination. I have to admit that I have no distant relationship with school every day. Two months ago, I was the headmaster of a high school. We note that the majority now weakens the examination system, also parties that have previously supported the scheme. And this conversion of the examination system is also taking place at the same time as the appropriations for the Department and the State Training Office are being reduced. As case rapporteur for Chapter 203, the State Education Office, I would like to point out that the offices have been reduced their allocation for many years. A reduction also this year will greatly hamper and delay the tasks of offices, and so now they will also have to take the exam. Finally, I would like to point out a happy thing. It's unanimous on a note about the cultural schools. We are now awaiting a case on this important cultural offer in the municipalities of the department. The wholeness of the proposal by the minority of the committee is very good. In addition to the above, it means maintaining the allocation to linguistic minorities and to student housing, as well as increasing to foreign students and to student kindergartens and some private schools. I therefore allow myself to recommend the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1439	The President will state that there are now so many people who have signed up for three minutes' speeches that the meeting will be interrupted and set again at noon. 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1442	One has said it this way: I don't really understand education. First we learn to walk, then we learn to talk, and then we come to school and get the message to sit still and keep your mouth shut! Your heart sugar may not fit anymore. For the last few days, it appears that many students are neither silent nor silent. The research project PISA compares the competence of 15-year-old students in reading, mathematics and natural sciences with the focus on: What seems to lead to good learning? In Norway, reading skills are far worse than in most of the countries we compare with, and we get to the bottom in terms of discipline and trouble in the classroom. The Bondevik government therefore put in place two measures to address this, one hour more in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th classes to strengthen Norwegian education and measures for values in school everyday life and measures against bullying. It has to be worked in several areas to get a better school. A good school that helps children master and develop, also impart cultural heritage and values. To that end, we need skilled teachers, many of whom we have today. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to a new report of teacher training. We want to strengthen the role of teachers, including: by allowing the teacher to concentrate on the teaching itself, and by involving other professional groups in social educational activities, together with a strengthening of advisers and social teachers. Children don't get in reprise, it says on the door to my office. There's a poster from the parental reaction in the campaign on quality in school. I agree with FUG, which points out that parental involvement and influence in primary school are crucial to the learning and learning environment of pupils. Parents know their children best, but teachers know the school content and pedagogics best. These two conditions must be followed up and completed. Therefore, school-home cooperation needs to be strengthened, and both parents and teachers need to be clear-cut. The national colleges are also a good contribution to our school system and an important part of the popular education tradition. The Christian People's Party reminds us of the decision taken in spring, where the majority says that'students at the national colleges will receive scholarships and loans for 10 months'. Government parties will also strengthen the financial situation of foreign students by increasing fees. When the opposition parties are not involved in the 13,5 million increase. kr for school money, many will find it difficult to study abroad. Then it does not help with fine words about internationalisation and globalisation, as we have heard. What about the monthly payments for these students? We want to give ANSA, which represents over 20,000 foreign students, a boost by strengthening them with a student adviser to counterbalance the commercial players in the market. The majority refer to the major building needs of the higher education sector and join the priorities of Rogaland, Østfold, Oslo and Nesna. I am pleased that the University of Westfold has now come to the conclusion that the completion of the pre-projecting of necessary construction will be completed. We have waited a long time in Westfold to see that the Teacher Training Department can also get its heavily elongated barley. In the case of private schools, the Christian People's Party underlines the right of parents to choose alternatives for their children. I am pleased that a majority say in the vote that the private school law should be reviewed, and that the ministry should work to ensure a better financial basis for the choices. The opposition parties, inter alia: In this context, the party of progress does not agree with the growth of the government parties in the private school sector, for example. grants for teaching equipment for private schools. Much has been said in the debate on grief, ulceration, etc. It must certainly be about the government parties. Because when we point out the consequences of the majority's proposals, we also have to include the negative sides, because of course they don't. If only it had gone beyond the Christian People's Party or the Right or the Left, we would have tolerated it. But it's the Church and other parts of School-Norway that go beyond, and then it's not about the Christian People's Party having or taking monopoly on the Church. We listen to what the Church needs, and therefore we have more than monopoly money to distribute. I would quote from a reader's letter in our country today, which has the title «Policy-made disdain and frustration» to point out what you think out there: «To the majority of the church committee.Do you know what you're doing? With a pen stroke, you have erased the suggestion of 35 performances. Who's making fun of you? I am one of them." So there's a prost in Senja Prosti, Oddmund Brundtland. He goes on to say: ‘The agreement was concluded between the Ministry of the Church and the Preste Association while the Council of State of the Republic of Gish ruled. And he was “much proud” of the agreement when he visited the church meeting last fall.35 new positions had triggered the agreement, “and more will be!” He said this – and went away from the promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1480	In this year's budget, the Christian People's Party prioritised tax laws for those who have the most of them. Therefore, teaching frameworks were far too small in relation to what one should have wanted and spent on teaching and research – to everything that belongs to this sector. But when everyone has to stick to the established frameworks, it is clear that one has to make strict priorities. It is against this background that the Labour Party was so busy getting the scholarship in place when we discussed the quality reform, that we were going to increase the scholarship to 40 pst, and that it was important to get it done in this budget round. I have to say that I was very surprised when I heard the Council of Churches talk about the scholarship design that the multiples in the hall have done, in the way that she did, that it is unsocial, and that it affects all students. It's really a good arrangement. No students with two years of study — if they are unlucky, for one reason or another, unable to pass the exam — will be affected by it. Everyone gets a better system of the systems that we set up. Now there's been a slightly different compromise arrangement, but it's very good for the students. I have also had the pleasure of having the State Council responsible for scholarships, at the hearing of the Committee. There she was, of course, in another situation, but believed that this form of scholarship – to convert loans to scholarships – was a good arrangement. I believe that inside the government college there are also different attitudes to it. That's why I think the scheme that we've come up with right now is very good for the students. I also think there are many people who don't study today, who think it's a good order. We promised 40 pst. scholarships in the election campaign, and we deliver. I think it's very important to focus on keeping the promises you've given. It does not do the center piece. They also promised that the scholarship part would go up to 40 p.m., but they prioritised other things when they came to power. I never wanted to talk about anyone as arrogant, but it's getting closer, I thought, with the way State Council Reply City Haugland refers to the plurality of this hall in this matter. It amazes me. Back to the budget: everything that goes on research and development, in this Chamber we have very much agreed on the need to develop further – we have to invest in research, because that is what will happen in the future, that is what we are going to compete in. Then I get very surprised when the government that is now has cut off some of the research budget. It's not the big sums, but it means a lot in relation to the small amounts that are for a lot of research. The government budget of Stoltenberg provided funds – 10 million. kr – for the establishment of a new company for marine biological mission research in Bergen. There is a cooperation between the University of Bergen, the Marine Research Institute and the Nutrition Institute. That's what Bondevik's government has been following up on. Then you're going to have to go into the various areas, which the Bondevik government has also followed up. But then there is no doubt that because of the cuts in the Research Council's budget that the Bondevik government has made, one cannot get this company on its feet. That's why my inner advice to the Government is that in the next few months it finds a chance to get out of it, because the Storting has joined in what both the government Stoltenberg and the Bondevik government have done in this area. That's why it's important to get it in place. We can't now experience that mission research in the size of many, many million to this company can't find a place because there's been so much cut in the Research Council's budget. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries, when he has the floor later today, to tell me a little about this matter and to assure me that this company will be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1495	The basis for the 2002 framework area of the Church, Education and Research budget was laid by the Stoltenberg Government and amended by the Cooperative Government. The changes meant a strengthening of the Norwegian subject in primary school, the construction of several student housing units, a real increase in the payments made by the students from the Loan Fund, and that it was again budgeted with a full degree in primary school. This, together with the Storting decision to increase the framework for continuing the country lines at many of the high schools in the country, should have provided a good basis for reaching a budgetary union with the government parties. Many voters have trouble understanding what's going on in this house, and I understand that. I have to say that in this case I am not so sure what is going on. Of course, it can be explained that I am new in this congregation, but it may also have other reasons. Throughout the election campaign, in all debates, SV has warned against the policies of the Progress Party and at the same time tried to scare the voters into believing that the Cooperation Government, with the support of the Progress Party, would conduct a bad policy for Norway. I think the SV's scare picture of the Progress Party must end abruptly after this budgetary procedure. When SV gets an opportunity to participate and form a majority for its main campaign case, partnership with the Advance Party is the most natural of all. There are only two conclusions to draw from this: either SV and the Progress Party agree on education policy, or SV must have thrown many of their election vows on the boat. We know that promises about multiple student homes are the victim, we reduce grants for training for linguistic minorities in primary school, and we cannot support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to introduce a bonus scheme for schools that will try out new forms of work. The latter is very strange, as SV has previously wanted such a scheme. So it's not so strange that you have a hard time understanding how some political parties think, and it confuses more than just the voters. If SV believes that education is so important, it is completely incomprehensible to me that you were not interested in talking to the government parties until you found company with the Progress Party. Research in the fisheries sector is a priority area for the Cooperation Administration. Following the submission of the additional proposal by the Co-operation Board, there has been a rise in criticism of the level of investment in this area. First of all, it must be pointed out that through the proposals of the Cooperative Government, the effort in fisheries research is increasing by 392 million. kr in relation to 2001. In addition, the Government proposed to start the construction of a new weather radar on Røst in Northern Ireland. This would help to provide better weather forecasts for North Norway, and would be of great benefit to the fishing fleet in the region. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, have not given priority to increasing efforts in the field of fisheries research. There is no interpretation other than that the majority of the Committee supports the line of the Cooperation Government in this area. On the other hand, the majority have removed the funds for the new weather radar. This is bad news for North Norway. The right, Christian People's Party and the left support the draft budget proposed by the Co-operation Government with the adjustments proposed in the Committee. One wants to make it easier for students to study abroad, and to introduce a bonus scheme that promotes local innovation, creativity and commitment. It is proposed to step up efforts in private schools as well as to raise the number of pupils attending higher education institutions. This, together with compulsory examination after primary school and enhanced reading and writing training for the 2-4th grade, is major steps in the right direction to achieve a better school in Norway. And then finally, there has been a lot of progress from here on the part of the Progress Party on the so-called foreign budget. There's a lot that can shine like a paradox when you hear it. When you talk about wanting more students to take their education abroad, but at the same time wanting to exacerbate the conditions of the students who, after all, are studying abroad, it seems to me that not much logical.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1516	There is a lot of good in the education budget that is being adopted today. The budget shall include, inter alia: the largest increase in student funding in history, the largest increase in the research budget, the largest university and higher education budget in history, the first step in a package of DKK 15 billion for upgrading school buildings, the introduction of free camper schools, the continuation of a record-high expansion of student housing, ICT investment at a record high level, DKK 1 billion in continuation of the pay gap for teachers, DKK 50,000 on average for one and a half years, and senior policy measures for more teachers to be able to work longer. However, the budget could have been even better. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Progress Party adopted a framework in the field of education of 350 million. less than the Labour Party's proposal, and that does not help to ensure that the government parties now complain about some cuts in the budget. It's a long distance from what was said before the election, and the Right does in government. In the election campaign, the Right goal of a free school – now they're taking away 100 million. kr for free school books. In the election campaign, the Right was to invest more in research – now they're cutting business research by 200 million. kr. In the election campaign, the Right would spend $1 billion on providing more education for the students – now the idea of cutting a whole school year is being launched. At that time more attention was to be paid to education and research – the result was a budget where they cut DKK 1⁄2 billion in education and research. Of course, it is true that much can and should be done without it costing money. Quality has to be the hallmark of everything we do. For this reason, the Labour Party government reduced a sample to look at the content of the 13-year-old, so the Workers' Party started to work on better teacher training, and therefore the Workers' Party also adopted a quality reform in higher education. It is gratifying that the new Minister of Education has announced that she will follow up this work. The main point, however, is that the Right must understand that quality costs. The quality reform in higher education shows just that. If we're going to have new subjects and degrees, universities and colleges need to have money for conversion. To improve the quality of teaching, we need to have money for seminars and follow-up of students. If we are to allow the students to deepen, we must also make it economically possible to study full-time. In my view, the worst breach of promise from the new government is the cut-off in the study funding. The speakers of the government parties try to misjudge this by circumventing the truth. At long last, the State Council answered Haugland, who in my view was very close to the limit of simply misinforming the Stortinget in his post. It is wrong when it is said that the promise was that 40 pst. the grant share was to be implemented during the period. It was due in the autumn of 2002 and it is clear from the appointment of the Education Committee in June this year. It is wrong when they say that a full scholarship had to go beyond other areas. It's cut to 350 million. kr in the framework of the financial position that has made it necessary. It's wrong when they say that the majority's arrangement leads to some losing. Everyone gets more, including those who are delayed. It is also wrong when they say that monthly payments will affect foreign students. It is fully possible within the budgetary framework envisaged by the majority, to continue paying twice a year to foreign students if the Government so wishes. And it's also amazing to hear the criticism of a conversion model that differs 5 percentage points from the Right and Christian People's Party itself entered for in June 2001. The truth is that the new government has presented a government budget that no one supports. Even the government parties have – without having to – moved into a budget agreement of 68 million. kr in relation to their own budget. It's not fun to lose the government's budget battle, or to get a government budget to rule after which you have had no influence over. This is how state councillor Clement deserves our sympathy. But the Right, who has the majority in the Government, does not deserve sympathy for having made education the balancing point of tax relief after a campaign where the school was the main thing. State councillor Clement says there has been no budget struggle. In that case, she must have cut SEK 1⁄2 billion in education and research without any resistance. If that's right, I'm afraid the education and research sector may encounter relatively dark times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1533	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1536	I would like to express great pleasure at the fact that the government of Stoltenberg, in its budget proposal, stated that the University of Westfold should be co-located on Bakkentegen in Borre, and that Bondevik II did not turn this around. That reaching the majority of the committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, maintains the co-location of all departments of the University of Westfold, is excellent. There has not always been such agreement on this matter before, but after the impact assessment has been completed, at least the majority are convinced that this is good. But the jam has taken a long time. We in the Workers' Party have for a long time thought that this is the right solution, both because the teaching powers can be disposed of in a more sensible and economical way, and most of all because we believe that one place and one environment for students and teachers in any case gives very positive ringing effects. Where students who are to become sailors, engineers, nurses, pre-school teachers, teachers and other professional groups study together, there is a great deal of good exchange of human and professional character. Many of these working groups will also cooperate in the labour market later on. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that they already know each other and each other's fields of work. The old idea that the students' distinctiveness is important to process alone without the impression from other courses of study is fortunately over, and I hope for good. Now it must start a pre-project as soon as possible, so that construction can begin. Only in this way can co-location become a fact. Priority must be given to the progress of new buildings on Bakkentigen. It must also be important for the current Minister of Education to know that old unsuitable premises are being replaced. I know the Minister of Education from before as a capable and quick lady. That is why I hope that she will do everything she can to get ahead of this case in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1545	The exploitation and processing of natural resources is the basis for a large proportion of Norwegian business and the potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries is particularly high. Therefore, government policy will also help to realise that potential. A targeted investment in marine R & D is an important prerequisite for triggering the potential for value creation. And I notice that the Committee stresses the objective that Norwegian research efforts must be stepped up to at least the average OECD level by 2005, with marine R & D as one of the main areas of activity. The government’s proposals for R & D appropriations in 2002 are in line with this escalation plan. In addition, the proposed tax changes provide a significant boost to business’s own ability to finance R & D. I also have great expectations of the impact of the new R & D levy, which the fishing industry itself will finance. It will be an important instrument for the industry's own research, and provide opportunities for smaller enterprises, too, without good opportunities to conduct their own research, to now get started. The representative Eva Nielsen is wrong when she claims that marine research is the loser, because the committee itself says that it is pleased and has noticed the important and forward-looking research carried out in marine research. In the 2002 budget, the government has proposed an overall increase of 392 million. kr to marine R & D under the Ministry of Fisheries. The budget is strongly influenced by the big promise of 307 million. kr for the construction of the new research vessel. Other research appropriations have increased by 85 million. kr, with emphasis on the institutes in Bergen and in Tromsø. The government has high expectations for the research community in Tromsø and wants to strengthen this. We are therefore proposing an increase of 23.5 million in the grant for fisheries research. SEK, of which 7 million. kr is earmarked for commercialisation of cod as a farmed species. In addition, basic appropriations are increased via the Norwegian Research Council. Together with the planned merger of fisheries research and the Research Institute of the Sildemel and Sildemel industries, it will provide a good basis for a forward-looking investment in Tromsø. The operating budget of the Marine Research Institute in Bergen is increased by 33 million. kr, which is mainly intended for marine research, resource research and scientific equipment. The Marine Farms Stations at Austevoll and Matre and the Research Station in Flödevigen will be upgraded under the direction of Stadsbyg. In addition, from 1 January 2002, the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea will assume responsibility for the tasks of fisheries research in the field of resource research and will start work on setting up a separate department in Tromsø. It is also the case that consumers should have confidence that the products offered are safe and manufactured. Therefore, the Nutrition Institute’s operating appropriations are increased by 6.5 million. kr to increase the effort related to safe seafood and feed for fish. Let me also briefly comment on what the representative of Frøiland asked for, namely the establishment of the new limited liability company that the Marine Research Institute, the Nutrition Institute and the University of Bergen are in the process of establishing, PROTEVS AS. I cannot see that it should be right, as the representative of Frøiland suggested, that this establishment should be at risk. In the budget, we have proposed that the contribution of both the Nutrition Institute and the Marine Research Institute to the share capital should be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1562	It's going to be line change. The President would have thought we would avoid it, otherwise he would never start with the Council of State at 0 p.m. 15, but all the good promises didn't hold here. Governments are then asked to stay here for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1568	The fisheries and aquaculture industry is expected to become a growth industry in the future, and in particular this industry will be important for the value creation along the coast of the districts. A successful effort requires both public authorities and the industry to set up a maritime service. The first greeting of all those involved in fisheries and aquaculture research by the PCF is cut in the budgets. In addition, the Government proposes to cut 23 million. kr. In addition, 7 million were cut. kr on the budget of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea to find cover for other proposals. The question is then: does this warn you about the course that the Government will follow in this area? And what will these reductions have to do with fisheries research?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1577	I fully agree that if we are to trigger the growth potential of the fishing industry, both public authorities and industry must contribute. I believe that the budget is spending, because that is the way to bet on increasing the budgets for research. Research efforts are also increased by building a new research vessel, which provides greater efficiency, better resource utilisation and better working conditions, and, above all, by using new and better technologies. So you'll get better research out of it. One increases the effort on the Tromsø-Bergen axis, which is the two heavy environments, with the heavy institute. The reorganization of these institutes is helping to get more out of each krona, and increasing efforts are being made in the cultivation of cod. The effort in the marine sector, which is one of the four main areas of activity identified by the Research Council and others, remains strong. Then it is that this budget has created room for tax changes that improve the ability of business to finance its own activity, both through the tax-incentives for research and development that lie there, and through the use of equity and the creation of larger financing of its own operations. In addition, when we took over the budget for the Ministry of Fisheries, we had to find cover for some things. One of the bills that lay there uncovered was one of 35 million. kr to move the Coastal Works from Oslo to Ålesund. It was very well known that you could not move for free, but that bill was not paid. I have paid it when Stortinget now decides on this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1588	I'm sorry, but I have to follow up some of what the Council of State concluded with, namely the relationship with the company PROTEVS. It is correct that the company is established by the three institutions and that the share capital, at least for the Marine Research Institute, is in place. But the University of Bergen is also going in with its share of the share capital. In addition, it is provided for an equity held by the country with which those actors are required to enter. What's the main problem is that it hasn't been set up for these 10 million. kr, which was provided for as equity in the company, so that this company has the possibility to operate from day one. Working with a 1 million share capital. kr, which shall be equity, does not hold out in that market among those wolves to which they are to be subject. So my question to the Council of State is, can he guarantee that necessary equity will also be made available so that the company can become operational? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1595	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1598	Firstly, I'm not sure that we have the same definition of equity, but I assure you that, on the part of the State, from the Ministry of Fisheries, the conditions have been set up in the budget to establish the company with the equity and the share capital agreed upon, i.e. 1 million. kr. In the case of funds for the operation to be carried out there and for the financing of programmes, it will be returned along the way. What is established, and which is in place when the Storting has adopted a budget, is that of the Nutrition Institute's 33 pst. share and 33 pst of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. the proportion is in place. The University of Bergen must then contribute its bit in addition. Then this company, for which I have great expectations, which is going to carry out research on behalf of national and international companies, and which I have expectations to become a center of gravity precisely because so heavy players with so much competence are behind it, must get funding, along with what the questioner called the wolves. This is an industry where there is a lot of competition to participate, and where competence and top skills will be what makes someone win and someone loses. I have expectations that this company will become a winner, because both public authorities and others realize that there is an unusually high level of competence at the bottom of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1607	With regard to this company, which I was so far in my post, it is a fact that in the proposition we are dealing with here today, it says: ‘A company is planned to be established for mission research in the fisheries and aquaculture industry in Bergen.’ Finally, it says: ‘See report under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, chap. 920, heading 50. ‘... It was in St. prp. No 1st@item: In Appendix No 4 is not mentioned at all. This makes our treatment of such a serious matter unnecessarily complicated. Once upon a time, we expect the next oil adventure to come, not from mineral oil, but from fish and aquaculture. Then we have to get these things in place. It is the case that the University does not have the opportunity to build up funds to have an account in the event that such things occur. That's why we have to get some other treatment of this than to point out that at the moment it's only the University of Bergen's 33.3 pst. that are outstanding, because it is a fact that this university does not have the funds, and then the whole project is in danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1624	I agree with the questioner that the next oil adventure, if you can call it that, is linked to marine bets, that traditional fishing industries and aquaculture are what should form the basis for filling in the welfare box when oil sources gradually start drying out. In the case of PROTEVS AS, the purpose of the company is to include and present projects to contribute to this growth, to trigger the potential for value creation and to the extent that the employment potential of this industry lies. From my department, we have been absolutely involved in bringing this forward. We have been anxious that the three parties who will be on the owner's side can realise the company. The first step is to establish the company with the equity of which the actors have agreed. From our side, we have added NOK 330,000 from two of the actors. And then you're going to have to get your share of the University of Bergen in place, and I have good hopes that you can get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1631	I am really sorry that we had to spend so long on this company in Bergen. It'll be a little bit small in relation to the entire budget. But it is right, as the Minister for Fisheries says, that the Nutrition Institute will be given its money, the Marine Research Institute's share, and I think it is entirely right that the University of Bergen will take its third. But then it's the operation of the company. The Research Council of the Ministry of Industry's budget has been cut to such an extent that they cannot take any further action. They need to focus on the agreements they have already concluded. That's the problem. That is what I and others ask the State Council for Fisheries to be involved in, so that they can conclude these contracts that they are currently negotiating. It is for the operation of the company The Research Council lacks money, because the cut is so big.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1638	I guess we could agree that in itself it's a small company. But this applies – I think the representative Frøiland and I agree – to a large and important part of the value creation potential that is. I must remind you that it remains firm, despite the fact that certain reductions have been made in appropriations for the Research Council, that marine research is one of the four areas that should remain areas of activity. That means that I and other government councils will make sure that it's still a priority. There's no point in establishing a company if we don't mean it. From my point of view, I am serious: this company should be a heavy and important player! I also remind you that the government has set up its own government committee for marine value creation that will probably be busy with these things in the future. But I look forward to this company becoming a heavy and important player. Then most of us will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-12-11.ana.ud1953e1645	Then the president realizes that this company does not become an adventure, but a reality. With that morning's meeting is over.
