ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e24	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e33	In connection with the current examination of Document No: 8:26 that the State is to cover the costs of the landowners in disputes concerning reindeer grazing, a unanimous nutrition committee is in place to establish a system in which the landowners are to bear their own costs in cases of principle. In the negotiations on the reindeer management agreement for 1999-2000, the parties agreed that funds from Rein driften’s Development Fund could be used to cover the costs incurred in dispute over reindeer grazing. Today's decision will lead to the establishment in the course of the year of agricultural negotiations of a parallel system to cover the costs incurred by landowners in dealing with such disputes. There are several conflicts in the country about where the limits of reindeer graze go. One still hopes that regional mediation councils will be able to resolve these conflicts. Nevertheless, such disputes may easily be brought to justice. Now one does not have to depreciate this mediation mechanism yet. It may be that when some fundamental issues are settled in the judiciary, this could provide a better and safer basis for the work of the conflict councils. An overall committee allows the Government to assess whether the parties should contribute to the liquidation of such legal disputes. If this is implemented, the parties in smaller cases may try to find solutions through the conflict councils, thus avoiding both legal and procedural issues. There is reason to believe that the procedures to support the recovery of such costs for landowners will also be designed in the same way as the procedures for obtaining financial assistance from Rein driften’s Development Fund. Aid will then be granted on an application basis and a case-by-case assessment. Today's decision in Stortinget will lead to that it is not the economy that decides whether a case of principle is dealt with in the legal system. This will be a clear strength for general legal certainty. Nevertheless, it must be mentioned that, as a rule, there is a large group of landowners who are opposed to a small group of reindeer in such disputes. This means that the cost of each reindeer may be significantly higher than for each landowner. Therefore, it is easy to understand that the reindeer owners got such a scheme into the reindeer management agreement. In dealing with this case, the dispute between the reindeer industry and the landowners concerned in Selbu has been used as an example of such a case which has been brought to justice. This case shall, if not long, be dealt with by the Supreme Court in order to clarify the issue of reindeer grazing. In retrospect, we will then be able to see how the possible recovery of the costs of the dispute will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e52	The size has been gripped here by a matter of great importance to them. There is reason to argue that the legal situation following the treatment of the reindeer management law has not been sufficiently clarified and that, therefore, fundamental decisions in the legal system are necessary. By strengthening the economic basis for landowners in legal disputes in this area, which is of a principle nature, there will be a better chance of ensuring legal certainty, as we see it. There is no doubt that the reindeer management law gives a strong position for the reindeer management tests with regard to the practice of reindeer management. Conflicts in the cold water of this law were therefore not unexpected. The Progress Party will argue that the basic owners have a weak position because the rights and interests of the reindeer committees are well safeguarded by law. The basic owners are weak in principle and should at least strengthen their financial position. It is correct and fair that the basic owner interests are covered by the costs of the case under the agricultural agreement as a counterweight to the possibilities established for reindeers through the Rein drifts Development Fund. It is gratifying that an overall committee has taken this position and that landowners are given a stronger position financially, related to the recovery of the costs of clean-up evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e59	I just want to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we've got the whole committee on this note, and we're excited about the follow-up from the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e64	This case started with a request from the landowners in Selbu, who has had a case going on for many years, and who now has the case before the Supreme Court. It turned out that the costs of such proceedings are very large. In this case, there are some landowners who are behind the case, but there are a few who have taken on the guarantee. I am pleased that there has now been such a scheme that, once the case has arrived, they are sent their application for recovery of the costs to the parties to the agreement in the agricultural sector, and that they will have their costs covered in the same way as the reindeer interests. There can be no doubt that the matter that this setting is about is a typical principle matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e71	The majority today addresses the issue of the state coverage of landowners' expenses in the case of disputes concerning reindeer grazing which are of a principle nature. I have noticed that the Committee is in favour of the landowners having to cover such expenditure within the framework of the agricultural agreement under a similar arrangement as that established under the reindeer management agreement. I take this into account and will ensure that, according to the Committee's comments, the situation will be taken up by the State in the course of the year's agricultural negotiations. The Committee's observations have the consequence that both parties to the negotiations must be prepared to make available funds from the contractual framework for this purpose. I have expressed my view of the issues raised here in a letter to the nutrition committee of 25 January and 14 February this year. The letters follow as attachments 1 and 2 respectively to the setting, and I do not see any reason to go into the details of what is stated on my part. However, I would like to remind you of the background to the proposal to amend Section 2 of the Act on reindeer management which was promoted by the Government in 1995 through Ot.prp. No 28 for 1994-95. An increasing number of conflicts relating to the geographical extent of reindeer management in the Sami reindeer grazing areas were identified and a desire of the authorities to provide the reindeer industry with a safer legal environment in the areas where reindeer operations were actually carried out. In this context, Norway’s international obligations to the reindeer surveys played a central role. I believe that there is a broad consensus that Norway should follow up the international commitments we have regarding the protection of indigenous peoples and minorities. It would be unfortunate for all parties if we now have legal conflicts to an even greater extent. For reprocessing tests, such conflicts would have a strong impact on the business environment. To the extent that reindeer operations are the losing party to such conflicts, the State may seek to conclude leases, where appropriate expropriating if the conditions so permit. These are issues to which it may be necessary to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e84	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e98	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e112	In the present document, the proposers present the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to the Storting to include outreach and preventive home care in the Health Services Act of the municipalities in line with the content of the proposal.’ With regard to the proposal itself, the proposers indicate that outreach visits to citizens aged 75 should be carried out in Denmark at least twice per year. years. Furthermore, reference is made to government-funded trials that have taken place, inter alia: in 21 Swedish municipalities, and there are also municipalities in Norway that have good experience with the scheme. As arguments for the measure, it is argued that it can prevent disease and functional loss, for example: by detecting unknown high blood pressure, under-use of aids, misuse of drugs and under-use of home services. The proposers also put forward some other arguments that a scheme as described should be implemented, and that the Government should include outreach and preventive home care in the local health law and that health care should be allowed to develop and keep up to date a brief guide to the municipalities. The Committee's examination of the matter contains an overall committee of comments which underlines the positive intentions of the proposal. A majority of all parties, other than the Progress Party, emphasises the good experience that also exists in relation to the determination system in Denmark, and points out that it may be wise to see the two schemes together, because improved cooperation between home-based care and care providers will be able to deliver worthwhile results also for the elderly population, and not least for home-based residents with a need for home-based care. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, points out that the results of the Swedish programme will not be available until the end of 2002, and the same majority then emphasises that if an investigation is carried out, it will also be useful to look at the results that are to be presented from Sweden, Denmark and England. An overall committee believes that it would also be useful in Norway to gain experience with a scheme in certain municipalities before considering the scheme implemented as a general scheme. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, will therefore oppose the proposal that the proposers promote in the document, but instead call for the conduct of home-based outreach trials. In describing the content of such an experiment, the majority emphasises that at present different groups are carrying out different types of work, and that, among other things, they are carrying out different types of work. blood pressure treatment when carried out at home may be different from when carried out at the doctor’s office, thus once again stressing the importance of close cooperation between different disciplines. Finally, an overall committee proposes that: ‘The Government requests the launch of a pilot project with outreach, home-based preventive care for the elderly in a representative sample of municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e140	Prevention is important, and in the vast majority of cases it brings benefits both to people and to society. In this way, we may be too little good at implementing effective prevention measures, both in relation to the older population and those younger. The most important thing about prevention is that they contribute to improving the quality of life of the person concerned, but it is important to bear in mind that society as a whole benefits from the optimum functioning of individuals in everyday life. In this way, the intentions of the present proposal are good. In Norway, we have come a long way in prevention, but we need to be able to recognise that much can be done even better. In this context, I welcome the introduction of the fast-track system, which will soon enter into force and which will undoubtedly be of great importance as preventive measures. A possible system of home-based prevention needs to be seen in the context of the fixed medical system. Although I am very positive about health prevention, I am concerned that we should not ‘sicken’ people. In my opinion, we need to be careful about angle prevention so that it can affect people's health in a negative direction. Prevention is so much more than measuring blood pressure, medication and the use of aids, etc. Prevention is also social contact with other people and the possibility to participate, for example: cultural activities. These are factors which have a greatest impact on the health situation and which are preventive. The organisation of the place of residence so as to avoid damage is also of the utmost importance. For example, carpets and loose wires along the floor have caused many fractures that could have been avoided. There are many other examples of simple domestic conditions that can be greatly prevented from being corrected. Therefore, it is important that outreach, prevention measures in the care of the elderly are addressed not only to home care but to the entire home-based care of the elderly. We therefore support the launch of a pilot project involving outreach, preventive home-based care of elderly people in a representative sample of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e157	The reason why the Progress Party has promoted this document No. The 8th proposal is that more recent research shows that preventive home visits by professionals can help elderly people to improve their quality of life and health, and that it can appear that such prevention can also lead to a reduction in hospital and hospital lay-outs. The best examples in this regard are found in Denmark, which, among other things, is the United Kingdom. a well documented experiment in the Roedovre municipality, which was published as early as 1985, showed that preventive home visits provided improved quality of life, improved functioning, fewer hospitalisations and reduced mortality. It is also worth noting that in 1995, Denmark adopted its own ‘law on prevention home visits to the elderly’. Also in Norway there are some who are offered preventive home visits according to the Danish model, and the experience gained there is very good. Hareid municipality at Sunnmøre has introduced a model where home disease treatment offers a visit once a year to all over 80 years in the municipality who do not have regular visits to home-based care. During this visit, the caregiver conducts a structured interview with questions to identify threatening health, potential risk factors in the home or at risk of the personal behaviour of the person concerned. If something is found to be significant, measures are offered, such as aids or services in accordance with normal procedures. In addition, blood pressure measurement is offered and information on local services and other relevant services is provided. The Advance Party wants to establish a right to outreach, preventive home care by including this in the law on health care in municipalities, but sees that it does so per year. Today, there is no mood for this in the Social Committee and, therefore, not in the UK either. However, we are pleased that the Committee takes this initiative in the Progress Party seriously, as an overall committee asks the Government to launch a pilot project with outreach, preventive home-based care of elderly people in a representative sample of municipalities. This is a joyous and a step in the direction the Progress Party wants, and I expect this to be put into action as soon as it is practicable to get it done. It is important that we can get this kind of action started, so that we can also get better at prevention in this category and not only with treatment when a possible situation has arisen. This is not only important for economic reasons for society, but above all it is an action to prevent unnecessary pain and suffering for those of our elderly, where simple action can prevent this from happening. The representative Arnesen was concerned that some prevention also led to morbidity. But this is not an offer in that direction. We want to be able to offer a service that will as far as possible prevent accidents from occurring at home and that conditions may be discovered in advance, so that action can be taken. So you can ask yourself if this is necessary today. Then I will very simply refer to the Varden of today. I would like to refer from an article on the front page, ‘Elderly care in crisis’. Under the heading ‘Failure’: ‘Nearly daily, the medical clinic, the senile demente TSS, which is debilitated and dehydrated — and in some cases also frozen. Many perish, they cannot be saved. Most of the senile denments are women who live alone in Grenland, they are helpless and do not need help.’ I hope the Council of State can confirm that we can try to get these trials started as quickly as possible, so that the elderly in this country can get an offer that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e179	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e187	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e193	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Agriculture at the Stortinget meeting on 13 February 2001 on the professional assessments of the risk of infection and the real impact of measures on the environment on which the Norwegian authorities are based be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e200	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The President shall draw attention to the amended version of the proposal. The amended proposal was distributed to the representatives' seats in the Chamber and reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of all infectious diseases to the Government and other legislation or legislation which may affect animal health and infectious status and, where appropriate, implement changes to minimise the risk of spreading infection.’ That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e208	The intentions of this proposal are well under way in the majority voting and in the measures taken by the Government. Nevertheless, I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote in favour of the proposal, with the amendment it has received during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e213	I just want to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left that we will also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e218	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e240	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Lund on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e252	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, we will vote in favour in the light of the outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease over the past few weeks. I refer you here to posts by representatives Lilletun and Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e257	I would recommend the SV's group to vote in favour of both minority proposals, with the same justification given by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e262	I refer you to speeches earlier today, and inform you that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e267	The President will then vote first on the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to impose without delay a temporary ban on imports of meat products of bovine animals likely to contain risk material from countries with a lower BSE status than Norway does.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e281	It is then voted on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to impose without delay a temporary ban on imports of live bovine animals from countries with a lower BSE status than that of Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-05-2.ana.ud2583e351	There is no record.
