ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e34	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map is finalised — and considers it also adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e45	This issue concerns changes to two laws – the Law on Social Security and Child Protection. The changes will allow people working on Norwegian continental shelf to become members of the population, in line with those working on land. The provisions of the social security scheme of the EEA Agreement will also apply to them. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Centre Party and the SV, considers that it is reasonable and fair to equate work on the ground floor with work on land. Workers have free mobility to work beyond their own borders today. It is therefore very important to focus on the rights of individual workers. Norway is currently charging employers' fees for all workers on Norwegian pedestals, but they are only entitled to professional injury. It is therefore fair, in the majority’s view, that these are offered additional guarantees by paying social security contributions entailing social security rights. The majority are also concerned that we have a great responsibility to recruit staff on the stable and well-qualified base to ensure that we are competitive in the industry that provides Norway with a good economy. The option now adopted will have retroactive effect. In other words, those who believe that they are entitled to social security rights from 1 January 1994 will receive it in return for paying a social security fee equivalent to what was to be paid in the same period. In the case of child welfare, this will apply only to workers residing in the EEA country. They will also be able to apply for child benefit with retroactive effect from 1 January 1994, but without the social security charge being charged, as the child benefit is not part of the social security system. Membership of the population will also mean that work on the pedestal is included in the international social security coordination system. This means that the time worked by the worker on the base is included and combined with other social security agreements between the countries, so that the employee can meet the minimum conditions of membership as a whole. The costs of these changes are difficult to predict, but it can be estimated that in the short term, there will be a fairly similar relationship between expenditure and income in the population’s security, at around EUR 15 billion. $180 million. kr. In other words, it's going to be balanced. In the long term, there could be a net cost increase of 200 million. kr. In the case of child benefit, there could be arrears of 35 million. kr, the annual impact is intended to be approximately. Fifteen million. kr. The administrative additional expenditure is estimated at approx. Seven million. kr per. years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e71	The rapporteur has gone through the government's proposal in a clear way that persons working on Norwegian continental shelf may obtain membership of the population in line with those working in Norwegian territory. It is also proposed that the provisions of the social security component of the EEA Agreement apply to persons working on Norwegian continental shelf. This means the right to child benefit and cash benefits from popular security, including for the spouse and children of dependants, within the EEA territory to the same extent as when working in a country. This matter has been difficult, among other things. because several ministries have been involved. After an overall assessment, the Christian People’s Party has chosen to support the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ assessment that it is essential for Norway’s interests to avoid the case being brought before the EFTA Court. A negative outcome for Norway could lead to interpretations of the concept of ‘territory’ in which we disagree. The Christian People’s Party shares the Government’s view that the EEA Agreement does not apply outside Norwegian territory and therefore does not apply to Norwegian continental shelf. We share the view that the proposed changes in popular security, so that work on the pedestal is equated with work on land, is based on a reasonable view and is fairer compared to the individual pedestal worker. It is important that EEA citizens working on Norwegian continental shelf are not left standing without any form of social security coverage. The Christian People's Party considers it reasonable for them to receive social security rights such as pension provision, sick pay and disability benefits. It provides security for those who work there, and it is consistent with international social security policies, which are based on the labour market taking responsibility for the workers. It is a prerequisite that a person pays a social security tax. We find it difficult to defend that EEA citizens who work on the pedestal and do not live in Norway are entitled to child protection. The amendments to the Child Protection Act are proposed to give effect retrospectively to the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. As the reason why the case was raised is that the non-payment of child benefit to people living abroad with sockets, the Christian People's Party finds it difficult not to support this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e84	Today, the government is given a number of pluralities for people working on Norwegian continental shelf but living in other countries. In addition, those who are members of the EEA Agreement are entitled to health services and child benefits for dependent family members residing in the EEA territory. The centre party believes it is important to secure all workers in Norwegian enterprises on land, at sea and on the continental shelf welfare schemes that provide the individual security of income in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability and old age. The centre party has ours and will continue to be the guarantor of important professional courts. They're under heavy pressure for the time being. But that's not what this is all about today. With the exception of the lack of follow-up of the pioneer divers, it has not been the only case where there have been reports of lack of dishes on the continental shelf. We are currently talking about missing security on the socket, but it's not about social security rights. The workers on the Norwegian pedestal who live in Norway are members of the population. Other employees, whether Norwegian citizens or of other nationality, are mainly covered by the country of residence's social security schemes or included in private insurance schemes if they are not resident in Norway. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, received a complaint on 16 September 1999 from a Norwegian citizen who was resident in France and employed on a Norwegian base. The complainant did not receive child protection from Norway. ESA has followed up on this with a so-called ‘reasoned statement’ to Norway. It is about making Regulation No. 1408/71 currently on the socket. Child welfare laws require that the child is resident in Norway for child protection. Today, the Workers' Party is receiving support from the majority to subjugate Norwegian social security legislation to its social security component in the EEA Agreement. This happens even if the Government itself argues against ESA by maintaining that the EEA Agreement does not apply to the continental shelf. The decision will be given retroactive effect until 1 January 1994, the date on which the EEA Agreement became applicable in Norway. The government and also the founding of the majority is a ‘fairness and justice point of view’. An extension of the rights of foreigners to live abroad has previously been rejected because it would be too costly and complicated to administer. In the legislative proposal, the government does not give any specific reason to state its previous position. Following the proposal, Norwegian nationals shall not be entitled to the corresponding rights in the country of origin of the foreign national concerned. The central party of my Government should rather initiate several international mutual social security agreements. Major socket countries, such as the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, do not practise the regulation today. The United Kingdom has received similar demands from the EU that Norway has now received from ESA, but has refused to meet these demands. Today, the government is given a number of pluralities to ensure that EEA citizens who are still resident in their countries receive not only full social security rights, but also medical support, funeral assistance from the population and child protection – without regard to whether they are also covered in their country of origin. This is an eye-catching new form of generosity. It is particularly difficult to understand because the Labour Party, by pointing out the growth of expenditure in the population, has not so far found room to follow up targeted proposals from the Equalisation Communication, proposals that would provide greater financial security for disadvantaged groups, for example. if they have children to care for. It is also close to keeping this case together with the proposal for guidance social aid standards, as the Minister of Social Affairs recently presented. It looks as if it takes advantage of the single provider's economic advantage of double child-care and double child-care supplements. If an EEA citizen is an EEA citizen, and in what has often been well paid for work in the North Sea, he/she receives child benefit in addition to income, even if the child has not seen Norway, perhaps not even at home on the globe. The fact that people who are not EEA citizens will not be entitled to child protection even if they and their children live in an EEA country shows that it is not they who have added their security or ‘reasonableness and justice’ that are in the highest place. What this is about is an unmistakable willingness to become an EU. The government says the economic estimates are uncertain. It may seem that it has not been the great attempts to get them to look special either. In Ot.prp. No 16 states that the social security contributions will cover the costs. On questions from Ola D. Glöttvold, the Council of State says that costs on a long-term and uncertain basis can amount to 200 million. kr. Based on the Labour Party's own words of justice and solidarity, based on their own words of strengthening the situation of poor children in Norway, one might expect another priority of spending of 200 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e105	On the wall of the trade union Nordens Klippe in the former mining community in the churches, it said, "For your duty, demand your right." In many ways, this is what this matter should be about. The fact that you also have non-resident workers on a Norwegian base who perform their duties, to put it this way, and who then get their rights, should be lacking. And that's not least when you link it to professional damage. It is clear that a person who is injured on a Norwegian base should be entitled to such an injury. What, on the other hand, is quite absurd in my opinion – and also in the opinion of the Centre Party, as far as I can understand – is that others who have nothing to do with Norwegian capital and who are not associated with Norway at all, will suddenly have a number of social security rights in Norway without possibly having stayed there. An example is children abroad who will receive child benefit in addition to the benefits they may already have in the country in which they live. This kind of generosity is completely unnecessary. And the Norwegian big thing didn't have to decide for it at all. It is obvious that neither the Netherlands nor England have made EU social security rules applicable to their continental shelf. In this way, I think it is quite eye-catching that a large majority is in favour of these types of schemes. It is almost so that you can regret today that the social minister still does not come from the Central Party, when you hear the absolutely excellent post that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa made here. In other contexts, it has been heard – not least from a party such as the Progress Party – that abuse of social security schemes, social security schemes should be stopped and that people should not be entitled to benefits. But here you get a kind of statement where people who initially have no connection with Norway can claim social security rights in a country they do not live in and with whom they have little contact, perhaps except that a father works on a Norwegian base, then travel back to his home country – but not to Norway. That also means, against taxation in relation to obligations that should be assumed, that you do not have these kinds of obligations at all. What becomes very clear here is how the EEA Agreement binds us on our hands and feet and makes us have to go into arrangements that are logically completely unreasonable. And it's clear that SV here wants to take a clear distance from entering into this kind of arrangement. We're saying that this is unnecessary, you wouldn't have to do this. One goes further in its adaptation than one country in the EU does, as I have mentioned in the case of the Netherlands and England. If there were Norwegian social security rights and rights attached to Norwegian citizens who were supposed to be central, and not to be drawn from other countries in terms of the consequences of not doing so, it should actually have been the case today that a majority had done the same thing as the Central Party and SV do, namely to oppose this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e116	Workers on Norwegian foothills are currently a member of the population's security only if they are resident in Norway or in another Nordic country under the Nordic Convention on Social Security. In addition to the risks of standing without adequate social security coverage, people living abroad are at risk. They may receive benefits in the event of occupational injury but do not qualify for a pension, nor do they receive sickness benefits in the case of sick leave which is not due to occupational injury. The amendments tabled by Ot.prp. No 16 means that work on Norwegian continental shelf is equated with work on the mainland in relation to the population's return. A person working on a Norwegian base will therefore initially become a member of the population's rights in the same way and to the same extent as workers on a Norwegian territory, irrespective of nationality and irrespective of residence. The main argument for providing full coverage for the workers in the social security system in line with national workers is to provide them with the same social security that workers in Norway otherwise enjoy. In my view, such non-discrimination is quite natural for reasons of social fairness and justice. This is all the more so for the workers concerned today, and much more so for the employer. It is a common principle in international social security that the country of work bears the primary responsibility for social security cover. I find it difficult to see that the need for an adequate social safety network is less at work on the base than at work in the country. The employee organisations on the base have also given their unreserved support to the amendments. Social considerations of reasonableness indicate that the extension should be general and cover all workers in the same situation, irrespective of nationality or where they come from or reside. In the case of child benefit, too, the proposed amendments will mean equal treatment of work on Norwegian pedestal and work on Norwegian territory. Thus, the workers in the socket will receive child benefit for children residing outside Norway, provided that they belong to the EEA Agreement and are resident in the EEA territory. Consequently, child protection will be provided in the same cases and under the same rules, whether the worker is engaged in work on the base or in work in Norway. This will also meet the ESA’s requirement that the provisions of the EEA Agreement and Council Regulation No. 1408/71 must apply. Norway shall use per 1 000 tonnes. currently not the regulation on the continental shelf outside the territorial border. The Norwegian view is that the EEA Agreement does not apply to the socket. The agreement is limited to the territory of the countries and the continental shelf is not to be regarded as Norwegian territory in the context of international law. Furthermore, there is no clear and unambiguous common practice in this area that would provide otherwise. Among other things, neither the United Kingdom nor the Netherlands apply the Regulation to its parts of the continental shelf. However, Norway may choose whether to allow the individual acts to apply there. In addition to the general extension of compulsory membership in the social security system for workers on Norwegian footings, which also applies to persons residing outside Europe, it has been proposed that the right of residence and the right to family allowances should be supplemented by a provision that Regulation No. 1408/71 is applied mutatis mutandis to EEA persons. Furthermore, it has been proposed that the rules on the after-payment of child benefits from 1 January 1994 and on the possibility of membership of the population with effect from the date of entry into force of the Agreement against the payment of the corresponding social security charge have been proposed. This latter is important, not least for the purpose of opening the right to a disability and survivors' pension in the social security system, which requires membership for at least three years until disability or death. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports these proposals. I can have some understanding of the minority’s arguments for the proposal to unilaterally apply the social security rules of the EEA Agreement from the Norwegian side, given that major sock countries such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have not done so. I find it more difficult to understand that the proposal to equalise work on the Norwegian continental shelf with work ashore in relation to membership of the population is also opposed. This proposal aims to ensure that all workers living abroad – including those who are not EEA citizens living outside the EEA territory – have a basic social protection that they do not currently enjoy. It is difficult to understand that the minority refuses to provide full coverage of the population in line with that of national workers and to ensure that they receive the same social security as other workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e142	Governments have now confirmed the real reason why these changes are proposed today. She's done the right thing for ESA. She has done well to ensure that Norway, by saying yes to social security on the base, introduces rules that are more favourable to those who work on the Norwegian side of the socket than those that are in force, for example. for Englishmen and people from the Netherlands when they are on their respective bases. She has also confirmed that, unfortunately, there will be discrimination between those who belong inside and those who belong outside the EU. It is surprising that she has so much support for these changes. The Cork Advance Party or the Right finds it necessary to take the floor at all in the debate. The Christian People's Party had some objections in connection with child-responsiveness, and that seems to me to be very understandable. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: does he understand that there are strong anti-representatives from at least two parties in this Chamber, that this is not reasonable and can mean justice, but actually lead to greater differences and injustices than today, because it is very difficult for families with children in this country who do not get improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e149	The real reason for the matter coming up was said in the post of the representative, Kleppa. For good reason, the representative is aware that these are of the matters we have taken over from the central government that you did not get ready to deal with. It doesn't mean that you can't have any other thoughts than that there's only one court case that threatens. There are considerable reasons for reasonableness in what we are doing now. If an EEA citizen works in an oil company in Stavanger, he is covered, but not the brother if he works on the base. That there are injustices in society, I know well, and I'm doing my job to make amends. I think what we're doing now is making justice among the workers on the Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e154	The Minister for Social Affairs stated that there was a significant reason for reasonableness. We have heard in a number of other contexts that perhaps as many as 75 000 Norwegian children live below the poverty line. We see that, in relation to child welfare, there is coordination between a number of other benefits, perhaps social welfare benefits, curtailing them. We see the same in relation to the cash support. We see a number of benefits for those who are the weakest in Norway being curtailed. So the Minister of Social Affairs says that ‘significant reasons of reasonableness’ are in favour of providing child welfare to children who have never lived in Norway, who live in completely different countries, who have no relationship with this country. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: what are the significant reasons for reasonableness that would mean that these children should be given priority under Norwegian legislation, under Norwegian social security legislation, while at the same time shortening the lives of a number of Norwegian children – perhaps as many as 75 000 – under the poverty line? What kind of reasonableness is the Labour Party Government proposing with this type of proposal and this kind of measure to children who have no relationship with Norway? I would like to hear a justification for that on the part of the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e162	So what we are dealing with today is about people from other countries who work on a Norwegian base, having rights under Norwegian social security legislation. I believe that it is a significant right for these workers to be insured in social security. I had actually expected that also SV would see. With regard to the issue of the provision of child benefit to children who ‘have no relationship with Norway’, this is not the case. So at least one of their parents is working on a Norwegian base. It's their relationship with Norway, as if one of their parents worked in Norwegian territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e169	I quoted initially from the wall of the Nordic Rock, where it said: «For your duty, demand your right.» Now I record that the Minister of Social Affairs makes a point that when you work on the Norwegian Socket, other family must also have the same rights. But does the Minister for Social Affairs not see that in that case there should be a certain relationship with the obligation? What is happening here is a situation in which the best things are to be learned from two worlds, taxation in relation to the home country, benefits in the home country, without any coordination or scoring to it, and at the same time significant benefits from Norway. What we see is that other countries, such as England and the Netherlands, have chosen completely different solutions for this. Does the Minister for Social Affairs not see that there must actually be a connection between what you provide to the community and what you take out of rights from the same community?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e174	The Northern Rock had an excellent slogan, as was quoted here. The fact is, for these people who work on the base, employers’ contributions have been paid up to now, and for each member of the social security system, social security contributions are also payable. Therefore, this will not cost Norwegian citizens any more. This gives me the opportunity to also correct what the representative Meltveit Kleppa said in his main post, that it will have a cost of 200 million kroner. kr. It will also be covered by income.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e181	This means that the cord shift is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e186	I'm not going to use my 3 minutes. When it comes to costs, I stick to a letter sent by the Minister of Social Affairs to the Committee in response to questions from Ola D. Glow violence, where it is said that net costs in the long term, on an uncertain basis, can be 200 million. kr. Then it is done well for what both expenditure and revenue in the short term may mean. We have noticed that this proposal is so important that it does not, in fact, have any rules – so far reported – that the suspension must have a certain length in order for it to be included in the social security system. This may mean that some of the foreigners who receive short-term membership in Norwegian social security will receive less relevant and valuable rights than home or private social security. This can lead to disproportionate administrative disadvantages and costs, even though it does not do them any good at all. So here's a lot of things that have to do with costs. Let me just say in conclusion that the round that has been in this Chamber today seems to me to have underlined again how far the Labour Party is willing to go to the EU. It also emphasises that, in order to use the Government’s own words, the ‘fairness and justice point of view’ should be more concerned with securing international, mutual social security agreements in its area, including those from countries other than the EU and operating on a Norwegian basis. So in Norway, all of this has been an internal issue, and that's because we're talking about net costs in the long term. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Social Affairs that she spends more time getting involved in how the most difficult people in Norway are doing, and especially the children, and that she also sees the cost to Norwegian society of not doing anything to the most difficult children in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e199	I am concerned about distribution relationships in Norway, just as I think the previous Social Minister was concerned about it. So it's her I've taken over, so I'm doing what I can to keep going where she left off. With regard to the net cost increase, it's true that on a long-term and uncertain basis it can amount to it, but in the years we have an overview, there's no cost associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e214	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e289	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e301	It was wrong, because I got in the wrong place! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e308	That means that the representative in the wrong place would vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e311	I voted correctly, but I voted from the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e318	The president expects Odelstingen to take a big look at it. [[Laughter]] It is then voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e333	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-27-lower.ana.ud975e342	There is no record.
