ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e32	Two permit applications are available: on the welfare permit of the representative of the representative Eli Sollied Överaas on days 8 and 9 November from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland on welfare leave on days 14 and 15 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the Vara, for the More and Romesdal counties of Ola T. Heggem and for the Rogaland counties of Ingrid Fisaa, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e83	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Councillor Kristin Clamet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e99	Unemployment in Norway is low. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this, because I am sure he agrees that it is good – it is good for Norwegian economy, and that is good not least in the fight for social justice. The more important it is that we are on guard when we see signs of increasing unemployment, as we now see in the industry and some parts of Norwegian competitive activities. And the more important it is that we help those who are not at work to get to work. For this reason, the Labour Party, in its proposal for a State budget, has presented many and comprehensive measures to make it easier for people to get into work — grants to enterprises that take up the labour force, the stepping up of specific labour market measures and their own programmes to bring the unemployed back to work. This is particularly important when we now see signs of increasing unemployment, and when we are now discussing what to do to combat poverty. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with what is called the line of work, the effort to get people to work, both to avoid unemployment and to combat social injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e106	I can immediately say yes to that. The Collaborative Management stands for the Collaborative Line. We want full employment. We see unemployment as an evil. Our policy will be aimed at keeping unemployment as low as possible. I can also say that the tax arrangements that the Cooperative Government will present in its proposal to amend the State budget proposal from the Stoltenberg Government on Friday will have a profile of being business-friendly and contributing to innovation and value creation. That's the way we can best keep people in work. In addition, we are concerned that families with poor finances, which are also often caused by unemployment, should be helped out of this situation. There is a background for the co-operation administration to address the poverty problem. In our draft budget on Friday, we will also present our first action in the fight against poverty in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e111	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so clearly joining the line of work in the fight against poverty and in the fight to contribute to the highest possible level of work, and also sees it as a signal that no cuts are planned in labour market measures or other measures that contribute to helping people into working life. However, I feel that they alerted the changes in social assistance rates that the Government came with yesterday, breaking the line of work, because it says that when social assistance is determined, all social benefits, all forms of social security, resettlement, child welfare, disability benefit. That's one exception, and that's the cash support. And that means, for example: a single-parent who tries to get out of a situation where he is dependent on social assistance, by taking work or education and having children in kindergarten, is penalised financially, while one such as: takes two children out of kindergarten and receives cash support, will win NOK 6000 on it. Does the Prime Minister see that it is a problem to so strongly reward those who take their children out of kindergarten and receive social assistance, with the way in which social assistance rates have now been set?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e118	Firstly, I hope that the Workers' Party and other parties in the UK will cooperate positively with the Government to combat the poverty problem. We will propose increased child supplements for disability pensioners who are among the poorest in Norway. We want to adjust the rates of social assistance, and in particular increase those relating to families with children. We will increase the grant of light and heat in connection with the housing aid scheme. We want to increase measures for drug users who are among the poor, and we want to give the tax regime a low wage profile. In the case of cash support, there is a well-known disagreement between the Workers' Party and the cooperation parties. The cash support has a different function from that of part of the other support schemes Stoltenberg mentioned. It does not form part of the general income base of a family, but has the function of increasing the freedom of choice of young children’s parents in terms of the form of care of their children. In fact, we believe that such freedom of choice should also apply to those who have a bad economy, not only those who have a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e125	We have five follow-up questions for this main question – and I had almost said, it's okay! First follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e130	This government says they want to follow up the line. And what we know about those who don't get into work is that they are largely lacking skills and qualifications. In the previous period, the Christian People's Party agreed that the better the sooner you get into activity or action, the better. This means that this government will have a much more active commitment to action and empowerment, for example: by ensuring that the right to secondary education for adults becomes a reality? Or will it continue as it has been, with many fine words about increased bets on the taskbar, but no more measures and money to make the taskbar possible for those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e137	I can assure the representative Karin Andersen that competence and education are a main field of action for the Cooperation Government. It is about competence and education in ordinary schools, including those who have fallen outside, who are in a difficult situation, and who need action to get into work. The most important thing about the so-called line of work, however, is that we have an industrial policy that creates new jobs, that reduces unemployment and that allows us to maintain full employment. The right to secondary education shall be effective and this government will continue to work to ensure that it is realised by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e145	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e148	Although we in Norway have continued to have an approach to full employment, there are some dark clouds in the horizon, especially in competitive activities. I see in my own country, which is a heavy industry, that woodworking is in trouble. We also know that large parts of the mechanical industry have problems. And I think about horror and horror of what happened after the Japs. Nearly ten years ago, in 1992, we had 200,000 unemployed in Norway. So I want to ask the Prime Minister: will he put the fight against unemployment as job no. 1? And is this contrary to the open-door policy we are now seeing in this area of free labour – or almost free labour immigration – from non-Western countries, where people at medium and lower levels are now to be opened up to gain employment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e155	First, let me stress that in most sectors of Norway, we still have a tight labour market. We see a slight tendency towards a modest increase in unemployment, and the Government will be on guard against trying to counteract developing into a larger problem. Where unemployment in particular shows a small trend towards growth is in the commercial and service industries. Working for everyone is also a primary goal for the Cooperative Government – and I think this is a cross-political agreement in the Stortinget. We will set up economic policy, and not least the tax and tax system for business, precisely with the aim that businesses should be able to do well, that they should be able to take care of the jobs we have and that they should be able to create new ones. It will be primarily the general economic policy that determines whether we are able to realise work for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e162	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e165	It is good that the labour force became the theme of the first question in this period. There are many tens of thousands of years' worth of free hands, there are tens of thousands who go free and want work, but don't get it. The expectation is now that you will get a lot of work from outside. Those who want to work here in the country, probably want to get it before these others. One of the groups in which we have many involuntary unemployed people is it over 55 years old. If they lose their job, it turns out that companies do not take them in as a priority. Enterprises with job vacancies must then be stimulated in some way by the public to give priority to that group. The centre party has proposed a reduction in the employer’s contribution for them over 55 years of age, while the agreement concluded limits itself to them over 62 years of age. An estimate that's done shows that we can get an increase in value of 13 billion dollars a year if we have as little retirement among them over 60 years as we had 20 years ago. Is this a group that the new government will give priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e174	Yes, I am concerned that also those who have come over the age to which the representative Morten Lund referred, of course, should have the same right as others to work. We know that, in fact, the retirement age in Norway is lower than it is formally. There are relatively many people who, at least when they pass 60 years, eventually leave the labour market. Many of them might have wanted to continue. This government is committed to creating more flexible schemes that allow employees to work even over the age groups we have just mentioned, and if they are not always able to be there 100 pst., that they can find more flexible arrangements between work and social security. Starting to differentiate the employer's fee even after age, I think I'll make the system we have, which is already relatively complicated, even more complicated. I don't think that's the way to do it. We already have a geographical differentiation of the employer’s fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e181	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e184	For the sake of order, the Prime Minister agrees with a description of what the Government is now proposing in relation to social assistance recipients, who insist that a 1-year-old and 2-year-old social assistance beneficiary will receive NOK 6000 more per year. month to live on if he/she takes care to keep his/her children away from a kindergarten? And does the Prime Minister think that this will increase the likelihood that social welfare recipients will take their children out of kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e189	Social assistance rates are the municipalities that determine, while the Government and the Ministry develop guidance guidelines. It happened under the government of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. We didn't think the guidance rates were good enough. There was a discussion about whether it was correct to calculate the cash support. For if one does, one for those who have poor advice will destroy the freedom of choice that the cash support is meant to involve. My opinion is that if one first gets freedom of choice for young children's parents, it should not only apply to them with good advice. If one allows the cash support to become part of the calculation basis for the social assistance rates, it becomes illusory to them with poor advice. I am aware that there is a disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Cooperative Government regarding the freedom of choice for young children's parents, but we stand on that freedom of choice. It should also apply to those with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e196	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e199	It is very good that the Government has so quickly taken action on behalf of the most difficult, and that the Prime Minister focuses both on offensive business policies and on follow-up to work and housing. My question relates to the child welfare and the economy of the most difficult family members. Now, the Justice Department's law department has stated that when collecting tax debts, child rights cannot be claimed, for child rights are the child's money. What is it that makes the Prime Minister here well focus on cash support and freedom of choice, but ignores and does not want child welfare to benefit the individual child, including the children of the poorest families, and not as today, when child-rescue in many cases is actually going to abstinence, to give birth to parents, rather than to the individual child?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e207	I do not ignore the fact that child-responsiveness will benefit the individual child. But there's two ways to attack this. Either you – as I understand it the representative of Meltveit Kleppa is a follower – can keep child welfare out of the calculation base when setting social assistance rates, or – the other way in which you can meet the same purpose – you can raise the child benefit rates in the indicative social assistance rates. That's what the Co-operation Administration is committed to. We want a real increase in child rates in the guidance guidelines for social assistance. We then achieve something of the same as the representative of Meltveit Kleppa requested. The reason why a person has thus assessed the amount of the child benefit differently from the amount of the cash support is that the amount of the child benefit is part of the income base of a family of children. It is known that in the tax table it is regarded as a so-called negative tax. The increase in child welfare is therefore considered to be tax havens. It illustrates that child welfare is part of the income of families with children. However, we take into account the fact that these families of children are also going to get better, by increasing the rates of children in the social aid guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e214	The President is aware that there are moving transitions in relation to the issue, but wants to reiterate the provision of the Rules of Procedure that supplementary questions should be linked to the main issue. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e219	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Anxiety and opposition to the war in Afghanistan are increasing in many environments, including in the Christian People's Party. It was clear at this weekend's national government meeting in the Christian People's Party, which ended with a unanimous call to the Government and Foreign Minister Jan Petersen to address the question of the use of class bombs in Afghanistan with Secretary of State Powell in the United States. It was a rather strange opinion, in which one member of the government asked another member of the government to address something that a growth in Norway has been in favour of, namely working internationally for a ban on the use of class bombs, while, according to the media, the Prime Minister obviously did not have the same need to oblige the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do what his own party’s highest body has asked for. I would like to have the Prime Minister's view on how to work actively to comply with the Storting's decision to work internationally to ban the use of class bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e228	Let me just say first in general that I think what's happening in Afghanistan these days is something that many of us see as a difficult situation. I understand people's concerns. At the same time, it is important to remember the background. We must not forget 11 September and that terrorists deliberately killed 6,000 innocent people. The Taliban regime has subsequently not been willing to cooperate to place those responsible in charge. They've had the opportunity, but they've refused it. Nevertheless, both political and diplomatic work continues to reverse the Taliban regime. The use of military actions is the last instrument to be used. For me, it will always be a matter of limiting evil, in this case terrorists', mercenaries. I also understand that there is a particular concern about the use of so-called class bombs. A decision has been taken here requiring the Government to work internationally for restrictions, leading to a ban on the use of class bombs. It's especially the bombs that are being unexploded, that could be blown up later and hit innocents, which it's important to limit. I can assure you that the Government will actively follow this up in the ongoing disarmament negotiations in Geneva and in the framework of the Inhumane Arms Convention. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in Washington, this was not a major issue, but in the talks with the President’s Security Counsellor, Condolezza Rice, the Foreign Minister referred to the debate in Norway on the actions in Afghanistan, and also mentioned in that context the concern about the use of class bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e239	Class bombs can – if they are unexposed on the ground, act just like landmines. Afghanistan is one of the countries in the world that have been hit most by previously unexploded landmines. So that means that the remnants after this war can be lying down and affect the civilian population for many years to come. There is also a background for SV to have a majority in favour of its proposal to work internationally for a ban on landmines. Does the Prime Minister really think that an international ban on the use of this type of weapon is being actively pursued if, in passing, the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentions it to the US authorities, but does he not ensure that the use of — what to say — so serious remains after a war, to a population that has already been severely hit by landmines?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e246	Yes, I can assure the representative Halvorsen that the Government will actively follow the decision of the Storting and work for it in the forums where it is natural, and this is primarily the case within the Convention on Inhuman Weapons and in connection with the disarmament negotiations in Geneva. There the Government will exert power in the work on this matter. We are also interested in finding out more about the question of the use of class bombs in connection with the warfare in Afghanistan. The UK Minister of Assistance has, after examining this, provided information to the British House of Commons indicating that these could have been used against five military targets in Afghanistan, but in the event of a type of class bomb that has not been out of play, there are different types of them. It's especially those who get laid out, which are the worst, because they can hit innocents and civilians. However, in any case, the Norwegian government will work to limit the use of class bombs, with a view to a possible subsequent ban on the use of class bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e253	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e256	I will follow up on this with the situation in Afghanistan. Regrettably, the government has refused to take initiatives to prepare for a UN Special Session on Terrorism. It is difficult to interpret it in any other way than that the Government wants to put the UN on the sideline in the fight against international terrorism. My question is whether the Government will help to give the UN a role in reconstruction in Afghanistan, among other things. by ensuring a Afghanistan-based political regime and not an American-based regime. If the answer is that you actually want to give the United Nations a role, what role do you think the United Nations should have, and what initiative will the Government take?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e265	The co-operation government does not want the UN to be on the sideline with regard to the long-term objectives of Afghanistan, namely to end the acts of war and rebuild the country. On the contrary, both in terms of the coordination of humanitarian aid and in terms of finding a political solution in Afghanistan, the UN must be absolutely central. In my view, it should not be a US-based government in a future Afghanistan. It should be an Afghanistan-based government, but different from today's Taliban regime, which has brought great suffering to this people and which made the humanitarian emergency a major one even before the war began. Unfortunately, the world community has not done enough to bring humanitarian aid before the war. At least one of the highlights of the otherwise difficult situation in Afghanistan is the fact that much more humanitarian aid is being provided now than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e270	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e273	Around Norway, there is a great deal of concern about what is happening in Afghanistan. In More and Romesdal, among other things, anti-war networks in Volda, it's Christian environments, it's most people who go and carry a concern, and maybe especially when it comes to this last, with class bombs. How will the Government communicate to the international community this grassroots concern in Norway regarding the war, of course, in addition to the official views of the Government? Will it be possible to express the concern that is actually out there among people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e281	I take seriously and I understand the concerns and concerns that are out there among people. Every lost human life is one too much. War acts and military actions are difficult for all of us. In my view, it can only be defended if there is a last resort to limit the mercies of evil – in this case of terrorism – and limit the tragedies that could otherwise happen. If the international community is now cracking in the operations in Afghanistan, I'm afraid the terrorists bin Laden and the Taliban will achieve exactly what they want. Then we can have a new horrific terrorist attack. I am going to share the concerns with my colleagues in other countries, but at the same time we must not forget 11 September. The terrorists deliberately killed thousands of innocent civilians. What is happening in Afghanistan is one of the opposite; one will try to break the cells of the terrorists in order to avoid something like this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e291	We're changing the theme. My question is about school hours in Kommune-Norway, so it becomes a question to the Minister of Education. A number of municipalities across the country now report significant budget cuts for next year, with a corresponding reduction in the provision of services. The school sector also appears to be affected. It's going to be cut for hours, and school closures are being announced. The Sem Declaration, on which the Government is based, begins its list of education and research that the Cooperative Government will: ‘– pay particular attention to strengthening the literacy skills of students.– Strengthen training by increasing the number of hours spent at the childhood/intermediate stage’» My question to the Council of State will then be: what will the Council of State do in the light of these degradation signals from the Municipality of Norway to ensure a municipal school offer, i.e. the number of schools and their school contents, including: the number of hours acceptable in relation to the desire to strengthen basic skills and hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e307	It is quite right that in the Sem Declaration and for the Swedish Cooperative Government, it is an important issue to strengthen the quality of Norwegian schools. I myself have stressed that we should, on the one hand, strengthen the content of school and, on the other, strengthen the learning environment. The content can be strengthened in many ways. The municipalities and the counties are responsible for the quality development of the school, but the state can also do something. One of the things that the state is doing is to provide extra grants for continuing education for teachers, but we're also busy with the hours at school. The co-operation administration will strengthen the hours at school, and especially I am concerned that we should strengthen the literacy skills of children and young people. Unfortunately, there are signs that children and young people have reduced their literacy skills after Reform 97, and that is what I think it is important to address. We need to do this in the short term, for example. by increasing the number of hours, but also through long-term measures such as: is about strengthening teacher training and training in basic student reading and writing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e314	I thank you for your answer. When the municipalities are in the driver's seat, I'm afraid that today's economic failures will end up determining the priority. In our opinion, the best thing would be to let students and parents go to the driver's seat, be equipped with public money, become customers and create competition in the public waste school. But while we're waiting for it – because that's where we have to go a little bit for the other parties – the second best solution can be a national standard. My follow-up question to the Council of State is then whether she will assess a national standard of school provision and school content, in order to ensure an equal offer for all students wherever they live, and no matter what the economic situation of the municipality of residence may be at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e323	In Norway, we have a system in which, on the one hand, we have a local autonomy, which we must respect. We have to respect the local priorities and choices made within a nationally designed legislative framework. On the other hand, we also have many national standards. There are many central rules for schools in Norway. But what the representative has in mind is to give students, teachers, parents and communities greater freedom, for example: to exploit resources differently, to find other forms of teaching, etc., I support. I think, among other things, that we should generally be positive about all the initiatives taken at local level, in order to do things differently. I can mention that already today has approx. half of the country's municipalities applied for trials, which they have also been allowed to do. I think that we should generally be positive, because it's an expression of an enthusiasm that it's very important not to kill or to inhibit.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e330	There will be follow-up questions – Rune J. Skjellaa.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e333	The Minister of Education said to the Post of Evening on 20 October that getting more quality into primary school is a major challenge. In the light of the questions raised by Mr Sortevik, I would like to ask the Minister of Education whether she believes that more funding is also needed in the school. And will the government increase the school framework, by increasing the framework of the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e340	The question of the local economy is, first of all, a second state council, and I cannot address budgetary issues. The additional proposal will be submitted on Friday. In general, you might say that there will always be more funding for the school. But I also think it is important to take inwards that resources in Norwegian school, especially at primary level, are quite large. We're almost in the middle of the world when it comes to resource access per. student. And I think it has the assumption that it's also possible to streamline resource use and get better resource use, get more out of every penny that we invest. I felt this was a main message from the previous government that it is possible to get it, and it is a message I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e349	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e352	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The co-operation administration has put the poverty problems on the agenda. That is good, although of course some of the measures can be discussed. We are not going to get to that debate. We'll have plenty of time to get back to. But I want to have a slightly different focus, because the center government was busy with cohesion. I also know that the Prime Minister has been busy balancing the increasing differences that we have experienced over ten years with Labour Party rule in the 1990s. My question to the Prime Minister is short and good: Has the Prime Minister and the Government now shifted the focus from wanting to balance the differences to concentrate on combating poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e362	No, it's for me two sides of the same thing. But the most important way to even out the differences is, of course, to lift up those who have the most difficulty. That's what the government will start a goal-conscious work for. The central government in which the representative, Enoxsen and I both had the pleasure of sitting in, left a very good foundation for the work the Cooperation Government is now continuing, because the Equalization message the Center Government sent out, was largely analysing what groups it is that have remained behind. This applies, for example: a part of the single-parent population, in the case of families with heavy drug abuse, in the case of long-term unemployed, and in the case of the homeless. The co-operation administration is now continuing this work by just trying to tackle schemes that can reach those groups that have remained behind. For me, it's the most important part of the anti-dithering policy, that we lift up those who have the most trouble in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e371	I thank you for the answer, but I do, in fact, disagree with the Prime Minister's description. It is important to lift those who have the most difficulty, and the initiative that the Government has taken is affordable. However, when several of the new state councils at the same time take on increased pay differentials, and the government at the same time will eliminate the dividend tax, how close to 70 pst. goes to those with revenues above 1 million. kr, and close to 90 pst. goes to those with revenues above 0,5 million. In fact, it is accepted that differences will increase — both by facilitating increased pay differentials and by allowing those with the highest incomes to recover tax-free dividends. Then help for those who have the most difficulty can easily appear as offspring, because we will get more tension in the population's living conditions. It's a development that the Center Party doesn't want, and I didn't think this government would stand for either. That's why my follow-up question is: will the government accept the increase in pay differentials that might indicate that you're adding up?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e380	What I have recorded is that the Minister of Labour and Administration has called for is a dialogue with the social partners on how to make an even greater contribution to individual wage determination, also based on factors such as competence, experience, etc. That dialogue I think one should take, without one thus presenting it as if we are going to increase the differences in Norwegian society. In the case of dividend taxes, it is in reality a double taxation of business. This has to do with the question of bringing private capital into our businesses so that we promote innovation, value creation and thus full employment. I think that one must also be willing to see the question in the context that we should have a better corporate tax than what we now have. We want to promote Norwegian owned business and capital formation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e387	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e390	SV is strongly critical and disappointed that the Government seems to have more detailed proposals in relation to those who serve well and have high incomes than to those who have the least. We have seen some of that today, in the unprincipled discussion about child welfare and cash support, where it was argued that cash support gives freedom of choice, while child welfare is something that can be equally useful for caring for mother and father. Does the Prime Minister not see, when the Ministry of Justice's law office states that children's rights should not be claimed in tax courts, on the basis of the principle that this is children's money, that this should also apply to the poorest? Is it possible for us in rich Norway to continue living with a system that is such that millionaires and even billionaires get child welfare, while the poorest families are not supposed to have this money to have a minimum of freedom of choice in their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e397	I cannot agree with the representative's description that this cooperative administration is more detailed in terms of proposals that will benefit from wealth than in terms of proposals that will benefit the poor. If you are willing to look at the first poverty reduction package published yesterday by the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister, you will see that we have done a concrete job. This is a first step in stepping up the fight against poverty in Norway. With regard to families with children and child welfare, I have said, and I repeat, in 2002 the Government will raise the child rates in the guidance guidelines so that they take more account of the real costs of having children. And this is to meet the problem Karin Andersen is addressing. Of course, child welfare should be just as real to those who have bad advice as to those who have better advice. That's exactly why we're promoting a proposal to raise children's rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e404	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – to the last follow-up question for this main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e407	I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister is sticking to the arrangements contained in the Equalisation Notice. I'm more uncertain about whether the Prime Minister sticks to all five strategies that he was involved in. The focus was on raising from below, and one of the five strategies to achieve this was a more equitable tax system. The anti-aliasing message showed why the differences have increased – that is, why the 10 pst. The wealthiest in this country over ten years had improved its income so formidable — and put the search light on the fact that there are many in this country who can contribute more to the community, so that one can get a lift from below. I want to ask the Prime Minister to confirm or disclaim that he is committed to the strategy of a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e414	Although I now lead a cooperative government and not the excellent central government that asked the questioner and I both were members of, we stand by the strategy. Just as the representative Meltveit Kleppa now said, the main focus must be to lift from below those who have the most difficulty. Only the measures directed at them will benefit them. Actions targeted at other groups in society do not benefit the most disadvantaged. And then we have to address precisely those who are poor and who have it difficult. The tax system shall contribute to the smoothing of income, but it shall also have other purposes. It should contribute to innovation, value creation and full employment, which may be the most important welfare measure we can take at all, namely that people have a job. We know that poverty is often great among those who go for a long time without work. So the tax system should stimulate full employment. It's also important to remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e421	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e424	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education: The equality ombudsman has recently produced a report which concludes that the ACE teaching materials used in ACE schools are clearly in breach of the Equality Act. Government council Victor Norman stated on Sunday that primary school should remain public. Does the Minister of Education think it right to give public support for our children to go to private schools with an extreme and degrading view of women, which also violates Norwegian law? And what does the Government put in that a desire for an improvement in the private school law, as it says in the Sem Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e434	Let me first say that I agree with Victor Norman in what I understand is his message, that the greatest threat – indirectly – to public school is a bad public school. That's why it's going to be a major issue for me to get to a good public school that the students want to go to, and that the parents want to send their children to. But of course, it's also important that there is access to some private supplements. It gives freedom of choice, it gives a certain corrective, and it gives diversity. I have many positive examples of that, through the Steiner School, the Montessori School and religious alternatives – now some international alternatives as well. As far as the law is concerned, I believe it is not a good law. It gives a very long procedure time, and there's a great deal of discretion there that gives little predictability, which can be the same as too little legal certainty. We have said in the Sem Declaration that it needs to be improved or simplified. The first thing we do now in the department is go through the actual practice of the law and see if we can shorten the processing time. Then we'll see next time how we can possibly change the law and make it better, simpler and more predictable for the audience. As far as the report of the Equality Ombudsman is concerned, it has not yet arrived at the Ministry, but in the case of these schools, it is imperative that they comply with Norwegian law, including the Equality Act. I have been informed that during the time of the Council of State Giske, there has been a special supervision of the existing schools — already approved and in operation — until Easter 2001, without any specific comments being made. When it comes to possible future approvals, I will of course study what the Equality Ombudsman will bring to the department very carefully in this regard. But the premise is that Norwegian law is being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e443	I want to say that this suggests that the new Minister of Education will also follow the line that the Workers' Party set itself in government, namely that one should add up to a practice where one should have a clear distinction between teaching religion and other subjects. I also interpret the Minister of Education as saying that she would clearly say no to private schools with the kind of view expressed by the ACE schools. I interpret the response of the Council of State as very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e448	I don't know if it's the representative of Bekkemel Orheim who's going to interpret my answers, I might be able to do that myself! I'm going to follow the Co-operation Board's programme in this area. As I said, I have not gone into the matter, I have not received the report of the Equality Ombudsman. I guess it's a co-ordinated big deal, my acquaintance, who believes that private schools should also comply with Norwegian law. And as I said, there's been a special supervision of these schools already under the previous government, without me being familiar with any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e455	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e458	Private school law is not very complicated. It is based on the principle that schools receiving government grants provide an equivalent and qualitatively equivalent offer to those children who attend private schools, as they do in public schools. One has to meet the curriculum requirements, one has to build on equality, one has to have satisfactory premises, one has to have qualified teachers, and the community has to be given the opportunity to comment on whether they want to set up such a school, for example. in the event of such a school going beyond cross-border schools that are at risk of being closed down. This is the purpose of the procedure for supporting private schools. Simplification of this treatment must result in a weakening of some of the criteria set for the protection of either the interests of the community or the interests of the children. Can the Council of State say which of these criteria the new government wants to remove in order to allow greater liberalisation in the establishment of private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e465	As I said in my previous answer, we haven't gotten so far that we've decided how to revise the law. In the first place, we go in and look at the practice of the law. I do not agree with the representative that this law is very simple, it is an element that discretionary practice here that can give little predictability. The representative is sure that there are many single things that create a lot of fight, and that in itself is not lucky, in my opinion. I can't say exactly how this is going to happen, but let me put it this way: 1.7 pst. by students in Norway who are currently attending private schools. We know that especially religious alternatives, the Steiner School and the Montessori School have been very topical until now, and now we also see that there are coming some international alternatives as a result of us becoming part of an international society. I don't think it's harmful if this law becomes something more liberal, so that some more students can go to private school and contribute to the diversity that someone wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e472	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e475	This law is very simple initially, there are few criteria that lie there. It's very easy to relate to. My question is about the state grant. We use approx. annual. SEK 1.3 billion for private schools in Norway, of which ACE schools are part. My question is: will the Council of State use the grant to influence the developments we see? Of course, schools that do not comply with Norwegian law should not be allowed to function. How will the Council of State prevent these schools, and will she deliberately use the grant and withdraw it for schools that do not comply with Norwegian law? That is, of course, the possibility for the Council of State to influence, and to intervene in order to prevent the development we now have. The question is: Will the state grant be withdrawn for schools that do not comply with Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e484	So I do not know that there are any schools that are active today, and that are approved, which do not comply with Norwegian law. I've just been to the schools that are the most mentioned. They have been supervised. We have supervisory bodies in School-Norway to ensure that these schools comply with Norwegian law. These have been subject to separate supervision without any comments being made in this regard. So I believe that this question is not relevant. In general, I also believe that drawing support or granting support, and using it as a threat in this connection, is not very fortunate. But it's a prerequisite for following Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e491	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e494	I have a question for the Prime Minister. On 13 February 1944, Norwegian vessels operating from bases in the United Kingdom lowered two Norwegian vessels in Hustadvika, namely the ‘Irma’ and the ‘Henry’. 61 Northmen were murdered that day. For over 30 years, there has been work on raising a memorial to this tragedy in Hustadvika. So far, no government has offered half the funding to the Ministry of Defence. Will the Prime Minister now take the initiative to put a finish line on this matter and to raise a memorial that the survivors may be able to attend with their grief?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e506	I must honestly admit that I do not know the details of the procedure that must have been in all the previous governments to which the representative Bastesen refers when it comes to such a memorial after the tragedy in February 1944, but I will promise to take the representative's invitation and take it up with the relevant government members.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e511	Before the representative Mr Bastesen has the floor for additional questions, the President will be told that the questions in the oral question procedure should be relatively general and not specific. Specific questions should be warned in advance so that each State Council or Prime Minister is given the opportunity to prepare.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e514	President, I'm going to be very general, and I also think I am. After 30 years of work, I think it is time that this matter came out of memory. The survivors are now eighty-year-old. I guess it's not supposed to be the eighty-year-olds going with the beggar staff to pay half of such a memorial. I think the prime minister would do more than take it with him, he would grab hold of the matter. He should say here today, we're going to solve this case. It's not a lot of money, it's probably about $1⁄2 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e521	I will promise to deal with the matter, but I must also ask for respect for the fact that I should know a little more about the reasons why this has not found a satisfactory solution, until I go something further in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e526	Then we go to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e529	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research. Proportions in schools are high, and they have increased in recent years. In the ministry's own study a year ago, one concluded that the proportion of primary school graduates was just over 200 million. kr, that's what parents pay for different events – everything from camp school to educational material. In the municipality of Oslo, a new study has been carried out to show that in Oslo, the excess is now over 16 million. kr – there is an investigation that we have received in the last few weeks. We know that there are classes where up to one third of the children can't afford to go to camp, because their parents don't have the money to pay the bills. So my question to the Council of State is, will she take the initiative to eliminate the excesses in primary school, and in what way will it be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e536	According to the law, the school must be free, or tax-funded. It is also stated in the Sem Declaration that ‘the primary public school shall be free of charge’. I agree with the representative of Mr Rikvam on this point that there is a problem with these specialities in school, as in particular. are linked to camp school and the more frequent school fees of different kinds. I am going to deal with what the government has said in its statement, namely that we want the elementary school to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e541	Thank you, that was a good wish! But in what way should a person realize it? That's what's interesting. Good wishes we can all have. The fact is, today is the large proportion of the costs, and they are so large that many children are not allowed to participate in activities that are more or less mandatory. It is also important to stress that the law opens up the possibility of self-esteem, e.g. for camp schools. It is in the law that the Right has been involved in adopting that it is permissible to take a partial part in that type of activity. As a result, many children are not allowed to attend because their parents do not have the number of dollars needed. So I ask the question again: in what way will one do something with this besides having good wishes? If any proposal to amend the law is made, a contribution will be made to the budget so that municipalities will receive the 200 million. kr necessary? Then the Council of State might say that she won't say anything about the budget, but now the Prime Minister has told a good deal about the budget earlier today, so if the Council of State says a little about the education budget too, it won't break the practice that is established here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e550	The President would point out that there are not so many days left until the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e553	I was going to say the same thing. Some of this is, of course, a budgetary question. We know what is going on in terms of camp school from the previous government, and if the representative Rikham can wait, he will know what is being presented by the government on Friday on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e558	There will be follow-up questions – Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e562	I am aware that the Right was against the statutory right to high school, but when it is in place, I expect them to support it as well. Since we now have a statutory right to secondary education, I also believe that it is natural that the secondary school is free of charge. We know that students in high school today pay NOK 3 000–4 000 a year in expenses for school books. And my question to the Council of State is whether she agrees with the Workers' Party that the secondary school should also be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e569	As the representative is probably familiar with, the Co-operation Board has among other things. in the case of expenditure on school books, an alternative other than the lending scheme currently in existence. We want an alternative scheme, a grant scheme. We have the entire education support system for students in secondary education under assessment, and we are going to make proposals for a comprehensive higher education support system as soon as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e574	So we go to the next and last main question. There will be no additional questions from anyone other than the lead developer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e577	I have a question for the Minister of Education. I want to follow up on what has previously been discussed here about private schools. We have had a supplement to public school for very many years, both religious and pedagogical alternatives. But in a society that is becoming more and more culturally and more religiously complex, the previous government saw as one of the main goals that the public school and our schoolwork should serve as a glue, as a meeting place for children and students of different cultures and different religions. A emergence of different schools with different religious positions, where children are sorted into different religious groups, where Muslim children are going to Muslim schools, Christian children in Christian schools, Jewish children in Jewish schools, and humane children in humanetic schools, we considered concerned in a society where we need meeting places, and where we need integration and understanding between different cultures and religions. My question is about the new Minister of Education sharing the view that it is worrying that we get a split of students in different religious schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e586	It is probably not to hide that the Workers' Party and the parties participating in the Cooperative Government have a slightly different view of private schools. I do not think, however, that the representative Giske needs to take all the troubles ahead. I don't think it's due to any violent freeing in private schools. No one is likely to forbid private schools. Private schools are allowed according to certain criteria. It gives a certain freedom of choice, it gives a certain correctiveness, it gives a certain degree of competition, it gives diversity, and society also becomes more diverse. So I'm not worried about what's going to happen there. As I mentioned instead, it's 1.7 pst. by the students, if I remember correctly, who are currently participating in private schools. In Sweden and Denmark, social democrats are much less concerned about private schools and much more positive about private schools, and the proportion may be 3-4 pst. in e.g. Sweden, which has a much more liberal legislation than us. If we make our legislation somewhat more liberal than it is in Norway, we are still far behind what social democrats think is appropriate in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e593	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The educational policy spokesman for the Right in the last period said so late as in the election campaign that we should get up to the Danish level when it comes to private schools, that is. Maybe around 12 pst. by pupils in private schools. At the National Council of the Right, Oslo Right suggested not to have the same liberal attitude towards setting up private schools in relation to religious private schools, precisely because of the concern that children and students should be divided into different types of schools. It was voted down at the Right National Meeting, but now there are other notes left by the Minister of Education. My question is: is the old view of the Right, which meant that there should be a free establishment of religious alternatives with the same price financing as in public schools and with similar subsidies, is that policy now buried? Because if you follow that system, you won't have any control over how many private religious alternatives you have, nor do you have the opportunity to ensure the integration and meeting place that the school is for children of different religious backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e602	There are three parties working together in the government, and there's probably no big secret and nothing hard to figure out that there are nuances and differences between the three parties, that there are differences in their party programs and what they've done at their national meetings. But the thing that stands out is that when this government and these parties cooperate in government, they do it on a basis, and that's the statement they made on Sem and the government statement they have made to this great thing. And that's on the basis that I'm going to conduct school policy, including the policy I'm going to pursue in private schools, and that's where I'm bound by the wording that's in the Sem Declaration, namely that the private school law needs to be improved and it needs to be simplified. And I've explained what I think it's going to mean – i.e. not a violent release, but a somewhat more liberal attitude and hopefully a clearer law and shorter procedure time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e607	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e612	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to Question 20, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 4, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Church and Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for the Church and Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Education and Research, this question is moved and answered in response to question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who will direct him. Question 11, from the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg to the Minister for Education and Research, will be taken up by the representative Britt Hildeng. Question 15, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 21, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 22, from May Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e638	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: ‘The Government of Ireland v/Minister of State Bertie Ahern has announced that on 9 November of this year Ireland will sue the United Kingdom of Hamburg for a breach of UNCLOS – United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in connection with the start-up of the MOx plant. [[United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea]] Will the Prime Minister contact his colleague in Ireland and give his unreserved support to Ireland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e647	The work on the environmental impact associated with Sellafield is an important matter for the Government. The Sem Declaration states that the Government will strengthen its exposure to emissions from the installation. In the case of Sellafield, the technological emissions mainly affect Norwegian interests. The levels of technetium 99 in Norwegian waters continue to increase. Sudden emission reductions are therefore desirable, although the levels measured along our coast are per year. present does not present a direct risk to the environment or to health. In particular, the market perception of Norwegian fish and seafood as pure products is important. The UK Government will soon adopt future emission limits for technetium 99. As a basis for the decision, a proposal from the UK Environment Directorate recommends that emissions should continue until 2006. It is therefore very important to influence the forthcoming decision on future emission limits. We are also aware that the British have already taken a controversial decision concerning Sellafield. We are concerned that there is a clear signal to start a new factory to produce so-called MOx fuel from uranium and plutonium from the reprocessing plant. The British government believes to have both health and environmental arguments on its side. However, the MOx plant has helped to further update issues relating to the environment and safety of Sellafield, including: the transport of the fuel to Japan through the north-east passage has been discussed. The government has stepped up its pressure on the United Kingdom and taken the initiative to review our further efforts towards Sellafield emissions. I myself have addressed this with my Nordic Prime Minister colleagues and with representatives of the autonomous areas in connection with the Nordic Council's session in Copenhagen. We have taken the initiative to assess the basis for which Norway has in international conventions to sue the British. We have contacted Ireland which has already filed with the British under the so-called OSPAR Convention for the retention of information relating to Sellafield. Irene has also announced that they will apply the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to bring an action against the British. We support Ireland politically and morally. In the Nordic region, the Minister for the Environment has met with his British counterparts, and the Nordic Environment Ministers have just agreed on a joint declaration in connection with Sellafield. On the Norwegian side, there will be continued political pressure on the UK authorities during the coming period. The Minister for the Environment will meet his Irish colleague at the Marrakech climate summit this week. The Minister for the Environment has also asked for a meeting in London during November. I can assure the representative Bastesen that the work on the Sellafield emissions will also have the full attention of the Government and my attention in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e673	I thank the Prime Minister for his answer and note that he has expressed support for the Prime Minister in Ireland. He also pointed out that in a short time, UK environmental protection authorities may grant permission for increased emissions from Sellafield, and the emissions of technetium 99 will take 213,000 years to halve. It's very worrying. In addition to what he has said, would the Prime Minister take any initiative towards the United Kingdom if they were to consider granting the permit for increased emissions? Can support e.g. to the NGO as one thing to do, which has gone to court with Sellafield for the emissions they are doing? I know that a country may have a problem with going to court with a private facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e682	Yes, we will continue our strong commitment to the fight against increased emissions from Sellafield, and we will constantly consider what initiatives we can take. I have searched and rained within a few days to get in touch with my Irish colleague on this matter. We want to raise it as high as we can in the United Kingdom. I can also inform you that Norway for spring will host a new North Sea conference, and we will also see it as an opportunity to promote our interests as a coastal nation in terms of the worrying emissions of technetium from the Sellafield plant. I can assure the representative Bastesen that the government shares his commitment in this area, and we will seek all possible means to reach out and prevent us from getting a worsening of this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e691	I thank the Prime Minister again for the answer. The main reason why I raised this issue is that the coast has been designated as an area of future growth and security for our economy, and then we cannot afford to customs with and accept pollution that can be stopped. I think it is uplifting that the Prime Minister can also consider using non-governmental instruments, for conferences, statements, letters and recordings is one thing, but concrete action in the form of a judgment that is confirmed, is something any government must bow to internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e700	Irene has, as I said, announced a case, and it has the political and moral support of our government. Otherwise, a government must first and foremost deal with the authorities of other countries, and we will maintain and strengthen our commitment in this area at the level of the Minister for the Environment and the Prime Minister and through other contacts with both British and Irish and other relevant nations. Then, in addition to this, it can be a valuable public commitment through non-governmental organisations. That neither can nor will a government rule. But here we have a common interest and a common commitment to the environmental movement, which is also very much concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e709	Question 2 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e716	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «The rapporteurs in Rennebu, Hitra and Holtålen claim that the offices that the equality management is now establishing in the municipalities have a much weaker staffing and competence than was foreseen in the Stortinget treatment one year ago. Will the Council of State ensure that offices are provided with staffing, special functions and opening hours as foreseen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e725	In the Ministry of Finance's budget proposal for 2001, the Government of Stoltenberg put forward proposals for the reorganization of the equation management according to the so-called district model. The size joined the proposal. On the title of the office of establishment, it was stated in that proposition that there is a local office for the function of the equation in approx. 190 municipalities, which will have many similarities with today's Equations Office, and which may also have special competence in specific areas. Today's Equations Offices are characterised by some common basic equations, but otherwise vary in manning and opening times, depending on local conditions. The reorganization of the Equation Management has as one of its main objectives the strengthening of the work on the equation and control of traders, companies and other complex tax matters. A main means of achieving this objective is to pool the resources of the establishment into fewer but larger units. At the same time, attention should be given to the public in order to be able to receive answers to their enquiries, whether they are addressed to the district office, a branch office or another office, for example. a public service office where the tax rate is represented by others. In many smaller equality districts, it is not possible to pool more resources to the managing district office without significantly affecting the manning situation of the other offices in the district. This is the main reason why the branch offices established in Rennebu, Hitra and Holtålen will be somewhat reduced compared to previous crew. However, all three agencies will continue to carry out traditional EQS services and thus fulfil the role and tasks of the EQS. These offices will thus have many similarities with today's Equations Office. The Tax Directorate shall carry out a survey of public enquiries to offices and places where the department is represented by others. This mapping will provide the basis for future dimensioning of opening hours and availability of the Equation Management services. The reorganisation of the country's equation management will necessarily lead to some changes in many municipalities. However, I am confident that the tax offices in Rennebu, Hitra and Holtålen will continue to have a satisfactory service on the tax base.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e745	I thank you for your answer. It was a comprehensive process that was in progress before the matter came to Stortinget, and that is what will happen afterwards. It is important for many how the state's service is offered. It is not enough that the department has said to the Stortinget what the Council of State has now quoted, among other things. place great emphasis on the need for establishment offices to have ‘many similarities’. The size has also said something about this and has stated that, as it is now going to be in 191 municipalities, the competence that exists today is to be maintained, and the staff is to be largely as it is today. The four municipalities in the South Trøndelag, which now have a branch office, are behind a joint enquiry that has come. The offices have three to five employees, and they are now told that it will be 0.4 years' work. It is something quite different than the Stortinget has foreseen, and the Council of State also confirmed in June that what the Stortinget has said, it should be. Will the Council of State follow up and ensure that what the Storting has said is also what will become the reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e754	The Council of State will follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy, but underlines that any process of change will bring about changes. You can't ignore that. I focus on the service in relation to those who are going to benefit from the services of the ethos and equations offices, and emphasise that all the three offices will continue to perform traditional Equation Office services, in other words will be available to the general public in the usual way. Then I emphasize that after some time we will conduct a survey among the users of the etat offices to see if they are satisfied, and if not, why. And then we'll come back to the Stortinget with a view to possibly correcting this. I think that such a consumer survey is perhaps the best way to get knowledge of what consumers think.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e763	I thank you again for the answer. Clearly, any change must lead to a change! What Stortinget opened up to was that the service office concept was to be introduced in 134 municipalities. There was going to be little Equation Office again. In 191 municipalities, the Equation Offices were to become largely like today, and it was said that the opening hours would also be much like today. The offices we're talking about here have opening hours from noon. 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. 15 five days a week. How are they going to be able to keep open for the same period of 0.4 years? I don't think it'll be like this. It is clear that there will be less visits. A consumer survey will show that there is little need for these. A press release from the Minister of Finance in June of this year says that we ‘will ensure that people are provided with most of the equality services at their home’. I believe that people in these municipalities expect the Council of State to now ensure that what the Storting has said, and as the previous Council of State has confirmed to be followed up, is also the reality: that the Equation Office is open five days a week, that there is professional competence there, and that there is special competence in some of the Equation offices, as the Storting has actually said.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e772	I refer only to previous answers, and believe that terms such as ‘largely as today’ and the performance of ‘most of the equations services’ are concepts that can still be used. I think you might have to wait for an audience survey before anticipating the conclusion in relation to what the audience might think.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e785	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 5 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e793	‘The Norwegian official position on support for US actions against the Taliban regime and Osama bin Laden remains firm. At the same time, there may seem to be environments in Norway that support the Taliban and Osama bin Laden and thus the terrorist attack on the United States. Does POT have an overview of these environments today, and are these considered a threat to security in this country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e800	Combating international terrorism has been a priority task for the police surveillance service for several years. This work, which is very resource-intensive, extensive and long-term, has been considerably intensified following the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001. The Al-Qaida network, which is run by Osama bin Laden, is inextricably interconnected. Members operate to a certain extent self-sufficiently, both in command, control and financing of their activities. They have a strong focus on security issues during the planning and implementation phase of a terrorist action. The planning may take several years. This pattern of operation makes it difficult for security and intelligence services to identify terrorist cells and the objectives of the actions. The Al-Qaida network has sympathisers in a number of countries around the world, including Norway. This internationalisation means that groups and persons of organisations which initially have a national agenda may also operate internationally. In the period after 11 September, a large number of people have been arrested in several European countries. They are suspected of belonging to Islamic terrorist networks, and arrests must be seen as preventive measures by authorities to prevent new terrorist acts. These arrests result from the long-standing efforts of European security services to identify extreme Islamic environments. No arrests have been carried out in Norway after 11 September by persons suspected of participating in terrorist activities. Norway receives refugees and asylum seekers from a number of countries in the Muslim world. This has also led to the presence of sympathizers of radical groupings in Norway. However, to date these groups have not posed any concrete threat to Norwegian or foreign interests. Threats to international security are based on Norway’s ability to act as a refuge for militant environments with international ramifications. From there, these environments can channel various forms of support to the mother organisations, which engage in armed struggles or terrorist activities in their home country. The police surveillance service, of course, makes a continuous assessment of all types of threats with the available instruments. This work also includes cooperation with other police bodies and authorities to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e815	I record that the Council of State confirms that this type of sympathizer is also available in Norway. Yesterday, Stortinget decided to grant an additional grant, such as: supplied 4 million to the police surveillance service. kr more. The Council of State also says in its response that so far no threat has been recorded from these environments. Does this mean that the Council of State considers it to be a risk since it sees the need to provide funds for prevention and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e822	As for the description of risks and threats, I have responded to it in my first answer. In terms of police surveillance funds, there is a general connection with the vulnerability picture that has been recognised for some years now, and that includes, among other things, is described in the settings of the sample that I initiated in its time as Minister of Justice, namely the Willoch Committee. And based on this vulnerability picture, we know that we can face a threat situation that is much more complex than before. That is why we see the need to have a modern, up-to-date and well-functioning surveillance service in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e829	In conclusion, I would just like to ask a brief question, and it is a question of whether the Council of State will take the initiative to provide POT with the necessary resources even in the time to come, even if the budget will not be presented until Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e834	With regard to the budget, the representative will find answers there. Of course, the government will have to assess on an ongoing basis whether the service can function in terms of both legal bases, resources and equipment in relation to the challenges we face. And I have in my first answer to the representative Ellingen sketched some of that landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e845	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, eight Lithuanians were expelled from Norway in the autumn of 2001 and were fined a fine of NOK 3000 each for gooseberry plucking. Does the Council of State, on a general basis, consider this to be a proper use of justice and its means, or does the Council of State see the possibility of embellishment of current legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e854	Picking cranberries is not a criminal offence in itself. The issues referred to relate to the sale of berries without the work permit required by the Foreign Affairs Act. The police officer in Hamar has informed that the quantities of berries involved were so significant that they were considered acquisition activities. Under the Foreign Affairs Act, foreigners engaged in acquisition activities must have a work permit, which the Lithuanians did not have. However, obtaining such a seasonal work permit should be a simple matter, and several of the Lithuanians also had such work permit last year. As the representative of Per Roar Bredvold knows, the prosecution authority's handling of individual cases does not fall within my remit, but within the jurisdiction of the National Attorney. However, on a general basis, I point out that it is the Stortinget that has passed foreign law and that it is the police's duty to enforce it. The purpose of this provision is the need for the Norwegian authorities to monitor the acquisition activities of non-residents. The responsibility for foreign legislation falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. As regards the issue of the regulation to be softened, I mention that, in the event of a change to the Foreign Affairs Act, the Storting has decided that a foreigner who has access to reside in the kingdom for three months or more may apply for a seasonal work permit from Norway. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has indicated that the legislative amendment will come into force at the end of the year when the necessary regulatory changes have been completed. As Lithuanians are visa-free, they have access to three months’ residence. They will therefore be subject to the amendment of the rules. The amendment also implies that the police are empowered to take decisions in such cases, in accordance with Section 13 of the Foreign Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e863	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Very many in Hedmark, both politicians, bureaucrats and so-called ordinary people reacted to some of the priorities that the police showed in this matter. The Lithuanians were taken very quickly, two were thrown on a smooth cell, they were fined NOK 3000 each, which is a huge sum for a normal Lithuanian, and then expelled from Norway. Many wondered whether this was a proper prioritisation of the police's scarce resources, both in time and in economic terms. When you know that the police don't have enough money to move out by e.g. burglaries and other offences in some places make this situation a special issue. To most of us, picking berries out in the woods is not the biggest crime, even if the carriers are sold, with or without a work permit. And that's where it creeps in many people. It shrank so much that in the municipality of Os you have, among other things. collected NOK 12 000 to help with the fines, and the Municipal Council of Hedmark has given NOK 16 000. What kind of signals does this government council give?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e874	The necessary signals have actually been adopted by the Stortinget. I have also given them in my reply, namely that there is a need to soften the current legislation regarding seasonal labour force in Norway. I am, of course, very pleased with the support that now comes from the representative of Bredvold to such an embellishment. It tells us that in a positive way we're building new widths in the constellations that want it in Norway. That's good. But it was with the previous legislation that the police had to make an assessment, not to pick berries, but to sell it, and it was linked to the work permit. So now you've cut through and softened it, so it's easier to get a work permit, and Lithuanians will benefit from it. And it is a constructive response to the challenge that lies below it. And that the local people in Norway show their support for people they sympathize with has always been a sympathetic feature of our country, regardless of current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e883	I thank you once again for your answer. In Norway, some municipalities have twinning municipalities in Lithuania, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Our municipality, as I mentioned. There, a lot of money has been collected over the years, among other things. for children’s homes. My question concerns whether it might have been more correct that the funds collected, from e.g. Our municipality and the municipal ban, rather, could have gone to such things by the loss of the fine, i.e. the NOK 3000 per person. blueberry picks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e890	As you know, my relationship with the prosecution authority is not as it is in some other countries. In Norway, the prosecution authority is independent. What has happened is that we have softened the legislation, and it is very positive that it is friendship relations with the Baltic States. I therefore expect that when the Government will assess further embellishment of labour immigration, among other things. from the Baltic States, this will have enthusiastic and sympathetic support also from the representative of Bredvold, as has now been said. And I see that as a very positive development of the Norwegian social debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e900	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘These days, regional health establishments appoint the boards of health establishments. Will the Council of State ensure that directors of regional health establishments are not also appointed as directors of health enterprises?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e909	There are two key considerations that have been central to the corporate model adopted by the Storting through the new model. By establishing in each health region total health enterprise groups under the direction of the regional health enterprise and its related subsidiaries, coordination and overall management of resource use have been facilitated in the region. The fact that the health establishments were made their own legal entities facilitated the administration of hospitals. It is a responsibility for each board to find the practical solutions in terms of organisation and governance that adapt these considerations to each other, of course within the framework drawn up by the Stortinget in its legislative and regulatory framework. This must be done by individual governments within their overall responsibility. I am confident that regional health companies and their boards will exercise discretion within the framework of the Health Business Act. However, I would add that a system of continuous representation, as the representative Alvheim describes it, in my opinion will not contribute to clarifying the order role that will be assigned to regional health businesses. I also have no information that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e918	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that he initially agrees with me that we do not need to have a continuous representation of the government. It has been suggested that some regional enterprises will do so, so I believe that the Minister of Health must go into instruction with regard to regional enterprises and prevent this from happening. My follow-up question is: what is the situation of the managing director of regional health companies, and what status does he have in the boards of enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e927	I see, as the representative Alvheim, clear disadvantages if it were to be such that members of the board of regional health companies also sit as board members of the local health companies. But, as I said, I have not registered that there is any problem. And the question that the representative Alvheim then travels is not relevant in that context. With regard to the role of the Executive Director, I think it is important, on the basis of the Health Business Act, to look at the Executive Director as an essential player in managing the regional health business on a daily basis and ensuring that the decisions taken there are implemented. In this way, I think the managing director comes in a different principal position than the board members of the regional health company.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e934	Once again, I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I am fully in line with the Minister of Health. The main change that we had made in Odelstinget in the case of the Entrepreneurship Act was precisely to take out the legal text that regional enterprises could also produce health services. That's what we meant to be a meddling, and we would get back the old county selection. The arrangement now adopted would strengthen the exemption of the individual entity, as shown by the law. Therefore, it is very important that the Minister of Health in the future continues to follow the fact that this works according to Odelsting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e943	I can assure the representative Alvheim and Stortinget that I have made progress in implementing the reform. I have met the regional directors, and I am going to have close reports on the follow-up to the very demanding implementation work that is still ahead of us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e951	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Does the Council intend to take concrete initiatives to prevent the Governing Board meetings of the regional health establishments from taking place behind closed doors, in order to ensure that the public is given access to procedural procedures and decisions which are essential to the users of Norwegian health services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e958	Let me first join the intention of the representative Molvik's question. Public health services shall be provided with transparency in relation to their environment. Therefore, the disclosure law is applicable to undertakings. I note that regional health companies are active in the information on the work of the boards, and that is important. The Public Service Act provides a number of transparency but, as is known, does not cover the public meeting. It implies that the Boards of Directors have been given the opportunity to exercise discretion on this issue. Regional health enterprises have adopted a somewhat different practice with regard to the public meeting. It gives a good starting point for gaining experience with both models. Another important consideration of the new business model is that the boards should be able to operate under stable framework conditions, i.e.: that the directors are able to expect stability in their organisational framework conditions. That is why I do not think it appropriate to submit specific instructions relating to the question of the public meeting. On the other hand, I would already like to inform you that on the basis of the current provisions of the Health Business Act on the participation of patients and other users, I will follow up with the regional health companies that this work will involve the setting up of user committees. It is a form of work with which I myself have good experience, and which contributes to opening up public enterprises in relation to those most affected, without compromising the clear responsibility of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e967	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. At the same time, I would like to express my wish for something more concrete and binding. Because this is the situation that the Minister of Health was in, it looks like we're getting a different practice from health region to health region. I think it is a very worrying situation that in some parts of the country you will have a greater openness around these debates, while they will be more closed in other parts of the country. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health will then be as follows: Will the Minister of Health, after a period of practice, possibly evaluate the system, with a view to creating a similar practice throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e974	I share Molvik's starting point on transparency and public awareness of health policy and the activities of health businesses. On the other hand, I do not share the assumption that it is unfortunate that a health-care provider chooses open meetings, while other health-care providers do not. On the contrary, I think it provides the basis for gaining experience with both models, and of course it is in such a way that those experiences should emerge and be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e979	Let's go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e985	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e988	‘In a report in Bergensavisen on 23 October 2001, a mother expresses doubts that her daughter, who has both a problem related to the misuse of drugs and that she is likely to have the diagnosis of ADHD, cannot be treated against her will on the basis of today’s law, and that therefore the daughter cannot be helped. Does the Council of State see the need to make the treatment of drug problems a responsibility for health care, and that this is legally linked to the law on mental health protection and not to the law on social care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e995	One of the first governments decided upon their accession was that the responsibility for drug-related health problems should be transferred from the Minister of Social Affairs to the Minister of Health. With this, we want to make it clear that healthcare needs to be provided with the necessary services also for those with drug problems. The close relationship between drug problems and health problems is well documented. Too many people are saddened by drug problems in combination with mental or mental disorders. Many also suffer serious somatic disorders because of the abuse. We must realise that healthcare has not done its job to this vulnerable group to a sufficient degree. In the field of mental health protection, as well as interventions for drug users and in different community services, it is important to avoid that the mandate of the service limits the possibility of seeing the help seeker as a whole person with complex needs for help. Wherever the person first requests, the assistance body shall ensure that he/she receives a thorough investigation and advice, which includes functional and life areas where an effort is needed. In this context, the provisions on the individual plans now identified by the new health legislation could be a useful tool. As regards the legal anchoring of these services, this is also something we will look at in the forthcoming review of the provision of health services to drug users and of drug treatment in general. The law currently in force opens the way for submission without the consent of the social service law and health law. In the case of children, coercion can also be carried out in compliance with the Child Protection Act. However, whether it is the law on mental health protection that will be the natural anchoring of this group, I will wait for something to decide. Law on mental health protection imposes strict treatment requirements without its own consent, and it is a fundamental assumption that the patient has a serious mental disorder. These barriers are enshrined in various human rights conventions, where the European Convention on Human Rights is the most central. Therefore, patients with ADHD are initially excluded from the coercive provisions of health legislation, unless they are in a mental state that can be considered to be a serious mental disorder. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now reviewing the law and the provision of treatment, for example: in order to clarify what further measures will be subject to health legislation in the future and what actions naturally fall within the scope of the Social Services Act. As soon as possible, the government will submit that consultation proposals on the future organisation of the action apparatus for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1006	I would first like to express joy over the answers given by the Council of State, because I think he seems to be reflecting on the issues associated with them. But I want to sketch another issue that the Newspaper presented on November 5, i.e. two days ago. It can be seen that several mothers who are being treated with methadone give birth to children. Some of those children must also be treated because they are simply opiate dependent or methadone dependent at birth. First, it makes the medical concern evident in such treatment, because it not only affects mother, it also affects the unborn child, which in the worst case could be permanently damaged if no measures were taken in connection with pregnancy. But in my view, there is also another problem: that there are very different cultures linked to the law on social care and the law on mental health protection. There are also different cultures of health care and social care in terms of the type of active action taken. Does this mean that the Council of State needs to clarify also with regard to this type of issue, that this is primarily a medical problem to be addressed by medical personnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1013	Without going into the special patient group here and now, I would like to say that the aim of the change that is now taking place, and the reform that the Government is preparing in the field, is precisely to ensure that the different groups are being protected in a better and more holistic way, that we are taking action where there is a failure, that we are getting the connection in the treatment and care chain to work better, that we are increasingly overcoming the cultural differences that are completely evident between the different services, and, above all, that individuals are getting help out of the respect they require, and the services that they require, like sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1018	What's usually part of today's problem is patients with what we call double diagnosis, so on the one hand you have a mental disorder, and on the other hand you have a drug problem, as a typical example of it. What happens very often then is that in psychiatry it is said that it will not be possible to get up with a treatment before it is free of drugs. In drug treatment, it is said that it will be difficult to treat this patient because he has a psychiatric problem. In my view, it is only when responsibility is clearly assigned to one place, regardless of whether the cause is a drug problem or a psychiatric problem, that one can avoid depriving oneself of the otherwise responsibility for treatment. This means that when the Government is going to address these kinds of issues, it is necessary to be reasonably explicit and precise as to how to take care of the whole human being in such a way that health professionals and social care personnel can not thus discharge themselves of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1025	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Ballo, for the valuable advice in relation to the work we are now facing with a review of the health service for drug users, where the objective is clearly a clear responsibility position. However, any responsibilities must be combined with a requirement for cooperation and holisticity. No matter where you set the boundary between the whole and the part, there will always be a tension between the whole and the part that needs to be handled through a reasonable cooperation. That's the starting point when we're working on this, both in the context of the mental health escalation plan, where the relationship between drugs and mental disorders is focused, and when the government wants to draw up a plan for care, where we're just aiming to see these things in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1030	We go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1037	This question, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1040	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to Trønder-Avisa on 1 November 2001, a sorenprinter enters the local press and announces a marriage conflict with the full name of his mother, father and two children. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable that a soren writer and the press should use this type of behaviour in a child-distribution case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1049	As Minister of Justice, I cannot judge how the courts handle their tasks as a judicial authority. For this reason I do not want to comment on this specific matter either. In general, however, I can state that it is an important part of the task of the courts to ensure that decisions are served. Service is a formalised form of notification necessary for the expiry of the appeal period and for a decision to be enforceable and enforced. However, the legislation must take due account of those involved in the case. Announcement notices may only be given where other forms of service cannot be used, i.e. that he was not present at the time of a judgment or cannot be taken personally, nor is it possible to give notice by mail or to household or employer members. Where there is a judgment to be served by a notice, it is sufficient to look up a copy of the judgment, or of the main content, in the office of the court. Thus, some notices in the press are not necessary, as in the case of service of the application. However, it is open to the courts in other cases of particular importance to be served by publication in the press. In a referral to the court office, it will be sufficient to explain that a judgment has been passed on, for example: parental responsibility and rights of association and the name of the party to whom the document is to be served. Paragraph 19 of the Children’s Act states that the name of parties other than the document must be served only if the court finds that there are particular reasons. This last applies both in the case of a notice notice and in the case of a notice in the press. I do not see that the current legislation on service is unsatisfactory at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1070	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a matter which, in addition to the report in Trunder-Avisa, has been mentioned in the VG, at the end of last week. It's a case that's about a janitor who, because in a marriage conflict, it was difficult to get hold of the father, put an ad in the local way, and who informed the community that if he delivered the children's passports, the father would become acquainted with his children. One thing is that this hangs out a father as a potential kidnapper — a general stigmatizing situation — another thing is the child’s situation. We have to be very careful about hanging them out in the public space this way. This will include, inter alia: could lead to bullying. I have no objection that the wanted offenders are hanged out in this way. I also have no objection that convicted perpetrators of violence and winnings are being hanged out, but I think that in one case of this type you might have to look at possible reaction forms to the press and to the scapegoat writer. My question to the Council of State is: Are there such reactions?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1081	In my answer I have explained the legislation that applies when I preach, and in what I have explained, there is a discretionary room. It is for the courts to act, and it is such that the form of reaction to which all those who exercise judgment are subjected is the public debate. There has also been a public debate after this case, in the public space. So I'm going to assume that for example. in the case of a debate on criminal prosecution, which is at the discretion of the courts, the Stortinge case is such that the debate is in many ways included in the judgements of the courts. I can also make such a general comment in this area, but I do not want to make any further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1086	According to Trønder-Avisa, a judge can report a verdict through the newspaper without conflicting with the law – as I understand the Council’s answer – if one does not get access to one of the parties. The question to the Council of State is, can there be any reason to change the law at this very point, so that you will not experience similar situations in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1093	It's not a topic that's on my agenda. I have referred to the law, which provides considerable room for discretion. In this case, it is the exercise of discretion that is the subject of the debate, and the debate on the exercise of discretion beyond what I referred to the law, I do not intend to do. If it turns out that the law is inadequate, it is something that I may take with me and come back to. But I don't have such a point of view at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1098	Let's go to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1104	This question, from the Per Sandberg representative to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1107	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘What immediate action will the Council of State take to control the lack of control and registration of asylum seekers we are now experiencing after the massive influx of asylum seekers this year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1114	We have experienced a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers in recent years. Asylum seekers from Croatia are the largest group, while applicants from Russia are the second largest group. The sudden and large increase in asylum seekers places a heavy burden on police resources in the foreign field. The increase implies the development of new forms of cooperation between the police and the Foreign Affairs Directorate, while temporary solutions need to be provided for accommodation, etc. The large increase in the number of asylum seekers in the autumn and the additional burden on the police and the Directorate for Foreign Affairs led to some asylum seekers moving to reception before the police had finished their job of signalling the applicants, i.e. Take photos and fingerprints of them. After the beginning of October, all asylum seekers are now signaled on arrival, and no one is moved from the asylum recipients until the end of this work. As of the same time, previous balances at this point have been degraded. In this situation, during the summer, a residual number of asylum seekers who were not sufficiently registered had to move to reception spread throughout Norway. The police, in cooperation with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, have intensified their efforts to reduce the balances in terms of registration. The Oslo Police District has provided additional resources to coordinate the reduction of the balances. I can also inform you that there is close cooperation between the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and our Directorates to ensure effective working procedures and proper division of labour between the relevant departments. The objective is to ensure a rapid and sound procedure, while at the same time ensuring the police's control needs are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1127	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State sees fit, it has become a reality that the number of asylum seekers has increased dramatically in the last year. The first quarter of this year came 500 every month, the second quarter came 800 every month, total this year we will experience an asylum seeker's immigration of over 16 000. The fact that this creates total chaos in the treatment system should not surprise anyone, and that budgets crack so that it is fairies, is no surprise either. Several thousand cases are now pending, several thousand asylum seekers are not registered, and there is an increasing fear of terrorism. All of this, of course, is due to a naive and clever immigration policy, which has resulted in Norway being now more and better marketed as a social curator for the whole world than ever. Does the Council of State now share the claim of the Party that the issue of immigration and asylum is completely out of control and that Norway should now have an exceptional state with complete stoppages of this type of immigration until one has been controlled?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1136	I record that the representative, in relation to his first sober question, extends the perspective considerably to the supplementary question. The answer is that when it comes to people in the realm who have unfounded asylum applications, for example: what we have seen about Bulgarians, the authorities have to handle it in cash. There is now an assessment by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of the action to be taken in relation to this type of asylum application, and the Government will appropriately return to action in such a context. With regard to what was the question, whether we're signalling, which is simply getting an overview of those who are in the realm, I can say that the signaling after the information I have is up to date per. October, just because we need to know who's here. In the case of registration, which is a second phase of the asylum procedure – as asked by the representative – work has been started on the reduction of the balances that actually exist. In the past, Oslo Police Department, through its work for some years, has demonstrated that they are in charge of such a job, and they have also been given additional resources to carry it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1143	I can go back to my first question, because there I was also dealing with the problems of the new immigration we get. Then I want to return to the consequences, because I want to challenge the Council of State on the following: does he not see a link between the lack of integration of all those who have already stayed in Norway and the increasing immigration we are now seeing? We experience a unemployment rate of 50-60 pst. in some nationalities, and the result of which is looked up in the newspapers as «The Future of Somalis in Oslo», «The Future of Refugees is Isolated», etc. Isn't it time to take a break in increasing immigration to put more resources into a stronger integration policy, so at least we'll get it in place until we take in more than what we're doing now? Because there is nothing that signals – at least not now – that there will be something less immigration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1148	The representative takes this up on such a broad basis that it is impossible to comment on the profound enough in a short answer in a question time. Let me just refer to the general attitude of the Government. It's ready. Those with justified grounds for seeking asylum shall be accepted in Norway. Unwarranted asylum applications must be handled in such a way that people do not stay here. But we are prepared to do something about the labour supply in the country. It is also about regulating labour immigration, and there are questions that we will come back to. When this is the case, of course, we have the legal rules we now have, the representative and I fully agree that we need a satisfactory signal from the police, and we need a registration. We can't have leftovers on it, and it's a step in the right direction so we don't have to have it. In the signal, we're up-to-date. As far as the remains are concerned, there is work going on for them to be built up, with the Oslo police district in the management, which has previously documented that it is a work they masters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1153	We then go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1159	This question, from the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg to the Minister for Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1162	«The Minister of Education defended in the evening post on 26 October 2001 the economic cuts of 154 million. In Oslo School, the schools have to make better use of the money and remove red tape and red tape. What does the Council of State mean by this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1169	I have not expressed my opinion on the Oslo School in particular, as is also evident from the interview with the representative Hildeng. To that I don't know the situation in Oslo school well enough. The answers I gave to the evening post were therefore of a general nature, and I would like to repeat some of them here. In general, I believe it is important to respect local self-government and the choices made locally, as long as municipalities and county municipalities remain within nationally defined legislation and regulations. I want to do my best to get the best possible school across the country, and to give municipalities opportunities and space for action to bet on at school, but at the same time I want to respect the choices and priorities made locally – and to be done locally. Secondly, I stress that all parts of the public sector, including the school, must contribute to the best possible use of resources, i.e. that we get the most out of each krona regardless of how the frames currently are. This was, as far as I understood, an important message from the government of Stoltenberg, and it is a message I can join. Not all sectors have the same amount of access to system reforms and efficiency. For the school, it is, in fact, difficult to know what potential we might have. One characteristic of Norway is that we have very good statistics to illustrate how much resources we put into school, but poor methods to evaluate what we get out. So the assumptions for assessing resource use are bad. The per capita resource use However, students in Norwegian school are at the top of the world. I therefore believe that, even within today's framework, it will probably be possible to achieve even better results and better quality. In order to do so, it will require efforts from both the central and local teams, and will focus on both short-term and long-term measures. Since the questioner specifically mentions forms fields and bureaucracy, I can confirm that this is one area that I believe should be subject to further consideration. Norway has a very large and partly complex educational administration, a relatively large degree of central governance and a correspondingly smaller space for action, for example: to test alternative ways of organising teaching locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1182	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Council of State has great faith in the ability to streamline and rationalise school operations. That was also the starting point for the right-hand-run Oslo at last year's budget, as they also cut significantly in school budgets. What we're experiencing now is that Oslo School needs a lot of extra funding because it hasn't taken into account the importance of adequate frameworks in primary school. This means that you will later receive additional appropriations that will result in a low level of rational operation. This year, there will be a warning from both teacher organisations and the school budget that they will have to face significant cuts. What teachers' organizations are now saying is that the Oslo School has been cut all the way to the leg, and both the principals at the schools and the teachers' team point out that the only option now is to cut the number of teachers. Does the Council of State think that this is the best way to improve education?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1191	It's like you're rarely satisfied with the appropriations you get. I understand that very well. Of course, most sectors and areas — and not least the school, which is a very important area — will want more money. As far as Oslo Municipality is concerned, I record through the media and the political debate that it is controversial what kind of numbers we are talking about, and how large the cuts may be, and I record that there are also local variations in the sense that Oslo School is making priorities that may be different from those of other communities. It's e.g. put great emphasis on the number of hours in Oslo School. When I say that we still have to be prepared to look at efficiency in the public sector, too, in the sense that we are implementing system reforms that make us get more out of each krona, it is because the public budgets are not going to grow to heaven. That's how the Stoltenberg government expressed itself when it came to health, when it was about defense and when it was about the police, and that's how it would be about the school, even though of course I want to work for the best possible framework and the best possible school within the framework anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1198	One had great hopes for the Council of State and her assessments and also for the Right after the election campaign, where they promised to bet on the schools. So just a few weeks later, you're going to get 154 million in the right-hand side of Oslo. kr. Does the Council of State think that this is the way to follow up Right election vows to bet on the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1203	When the representative Hildeng uses the expression "right-wing" Oslo, I want to start by saying that my program is going to be that I don't want to use the municipalities in any party political game. I want to respect local self-government no matter who has won a majority in the respective municipalities. We went to better school elections. I have been sitting in the Council of State for approx. three weeks. We're going to bet on school. It's going to be invested in the school by financial means, but it's also going to be invested in doing things in a different way. And I myself have stressed that I am concerned about two things: after we had many system reforms from above in the 1990s, to put it that way, I am now concerned about strengthening the content of the school, and I am concerned about strengthening the learning environment. This can happen by spending more money, but I'm convinced that it can also happen through system reforms that don't necessarily mean more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1214	We're going back to question 5. This question, from Karita Bekkemelme Orheim to the Minister for Church and Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1217	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘A professor of the Faculty of Publicities shall be restricted to his professorship on the basis of the following statement: ‘... there are no serious ethical reasons to say that people who have a clear homophilic identity shall not be allowed to live in partnership.’ Is this acceptable to the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1226	On 6 October, the Board of Directors of the Faculty of Publicities decided that Professor Jan-Olav Henriksen would be disbanded from the appointment of professors in systematic theology and thus from teaching and guidance in ethics. He turns into a professorship in religious philosophy. This is because he has expressed a view of a partnership for homosexuals that is not consistent with the faculty's basic understanding of gay partnership. The community faculty is a private college, which is also a research institution and a church university with its own government and a high degree of autonomy. Private higher education institutions may apply to be granted the right to an examination and/or State grants under the law of 11 July 1986 No. 53 on the right to an examination and state grants to private higher education institutions. The law sets out some general requirements for regulatory governance in different areas in order to obtain the right to an examination or state grant, for example: compositional requirements, staff requirements and admission legislation requirements for students, study plans and examination regulations. The granting of an examination right or a state grant does not involve the approval of the institution as such. Examination law means that the institution is satisfied that the current examination or degree is equivalent to the examination or degree offered at State universities or colleges. The faculty has been awarded the right to an examination for a number of its studies and also receives State grants from the Ministry. For the examinations and degrees approved by the Ministry under the private higher education law, the private institutions must meet certain quality criteria. However, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research does not oversee or control the institutions in addition to ensuring the professional level of education. The faculty receives grants for places of study and grants for scholarships. The Ministry does not allocate specific funds to research activities in addition to grants for scholarships, and there are no specific implications for the award of State grants to private universities in relation to research activities. The faculty receives funding for concrete research projects from the Norwegian Research Council. In the case of State universities and higher education institutions, the Ministry has expressly waived its powers to instruct the institutions as regards the content of teaching and the content of research. Section 2 of the Law on Universities and Higher Education. In my view, if not to an even greater extent, the Ministry must refrain from instructing private institutions in this area. There is also no formal basis for such instructions. I would remind you that a primary purpose of the Private Higher Education Act is to ensure higher education offers that represent alternatives to public services, by providing them with good and predictable working conditions in Norway. For my part, I will be concerned about everything that can contribute to limiting the conditions of free research. It would be unfortunate if the Faculty of Publicities were acting in violation of the principle of free research, for example. to identify the subjects on which research is to be carried out or the results to be achieved. However, I cannot see that there is a basis for saying that the Faculty of Publicities has put a link on the professor's choice of research theme or on the ability to publish the results of the research. I understand that questions are raised when conditions are set for having a particular theological vision in order to be able to teach. Such conditions act as aliens in the rest of the world of universities and researchers, in which professional qualifications are primarily required. But making conditions for employees is also known at the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo, where membership is required in the Norwegian Church in order to teach. However, as a research minister, I am concerned about the controversy and doubt that have arisen in the wake of the decision taken. Of course, the theological profession in Norway is not served by a situation where the conditions of free research are questioned by one of the institutions. I therefore assume that the Faculty of Publicities will see itself well served to discuss how it can itself help to clarify questions and counter-conceptions that have been raised. However, the Ministry's control of private institutions is limited to the formal rules set out in the Private Higher Education Act. Although the Faculty of Education has been awarded both the right to an examination and State grants under the law, there are a number of matters which are not within the department's jurisdiction, including the faculty's theological understanding and the relationship between the management of the university and its professional staff. I believe that the department should not have ambitions to control this either. However, if the Faculty of Social Sciences itself wishes to have the matter clarified and its relationship with free research, the matter may be referred to the National Research Ethics Committee for Social Sciences and Humanities, which is one of three research ethics committees appointed by the KUF.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1250	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I find it regrettable that the Council of State does not want to clear up the situation that has arisen. I believe that what we have seen in this matter is an expression that the ideal of academic freedom is not being followed up. A professor is tied in with the ability to continue researching and teaching on ethical issues related to homosexuality. The faculty receives public support at approx. Thirty million. kr, and it clearly gives this institution a social responsibility. This responsibility is not well managed in good enough research spirit by the Faculty of Publicities. I believe that our research institutions should be the precursors of the societal debate. This is going to be a debate with a negative sign. The faculty is also responsible for the further training of teachers in the CRL field. I want to say as Bishop Andreas Aarflot: This is a pure demonstration of power on the part of the board. I wish the Council of State had cleared up this unworthy conflict we have witnessed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1261	For me, it is important to act in principle neatly as well. In fact, unlike the representative, Mr. Bekkemel Orheim, I do not have any evidence today to say that there are any ties on the research theme or on the access to the publication of these research results. The requirement for a special theological vision to teach at the Faculty of Society may hardly come as a surprise. It's a phenomenon that we've then said has accepted a priori. I also do not think the question of state aid should be determined by what opinions you have. We have to stick to the law, the private college law, and the law and regulation I have to abide by does not allow me to intervene in this situation. I also think that I must be careful to do so. Let me say: this case is not about the view of homophilis or partnership. I understand that this question may seem quite obvious to the playwrights who have made up an opinion, and I think the representative Bekkemelm Orheim knows how I feel about it as a playwright and politician. But this is a theological debate and is about the freedom of private colleges, and the Faculty of Publicities has just been formed to represent an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1270	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's regrettable and especially in a situation where we know that very many Christian homosexuals are trying to take their own lives. Then it is important that our social institutions, which have the kind of responsibilities of the Faculty of Publicities, set a good example. I want to say it so strongly that this is a persuasion against a professor who is being neglected and not being able to do his job on a daily basis. There's nothing else you can put into it. At least if you're going to believe the debate that's been in public lately, I think it's very, very regrettable that we don't get an orderly situation for the Faculty of Humanities. As Aarflot says, this goes beyond the reputation of this institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1279	I guess I feel that this is about two questions. The representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, spoke about spreading good and acceptable attitudes, I think the representative should contribute, and I would like to contribute to that myself. Of course, homofiles have exactly the same equivalency as everyone else. That's my opinion. But I still can't stand up to a theological debate and a theological view of this and claim that someone should believe the same thing as I do from a theological point of view. My concern is whether the free research is under attack, and that question I find it regrettable that doubts have arisen and that there has been a conflict. That is why I think it would be wise, not least for the Faculty of Public Affairs itself, to clarify this matter and the relationship with free research. You can do that, as I have mentioned, by presenting the matter to the National Research Ethics Committee on Social Sciences and Humanities. If that happens, I am sure that this side of the case will be thoroughly illuminated. The second debate, which concerns our attitude towards homophobia and partnership, I would like to take part in, but in my opinion that is not the fundamental question I am going to address here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1293	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Minister for Fisheries has stopped the so-called ‘fish fraud tipphone’, although it appears to have had a good effect. Has the State Council sought professional advice in this matter, and what are the professional arguments for stopping the tipping phone in that case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1302	The security of the resource base for the Norwegian fishing industry is of the highest priority for this government — both for current fisheries and for those who are going to harvest from the sea and have it as a food supply in the future. Good and effective control of what is taken up by the sea is a vital prerequisite for achieving this. Therefore, the effort to bring to life the illegalities of the fishing industry must continue with unrestricted strength. I refer here to the statement that was held in the Storting in May, and to which the parties of the cooperative government joined. It is important that we address this, because serious environmental and economic crime must and must be severely reduced. In this way, fish fraud is no exception. With regard to the measures taken, I mention that checks on the kaikant and on board the boats have been strengthened by the establishment of 18 new inspection posts – 14 inspectors, 3 posts linked to the central data collection and analysis unit and 1 post as auditor. The positions have been occupied, but not all have yet joined. Another important measure is the strengthening of the regulatory framework. A major amendment to the Seawater Fishing Act has been adopted which focuses on provisions to strengthen control, including an increase in the penalty framework. Sales teams have also been asked to strengthen resource control. The Directorate of Fisheries has used legal access to temporarily or permanently withdraw the right of a vessel to fish. This will also be followed up in budgetary terms and further measures are under assessment. In that case, I have closed the special tip phone for the fishing industry, was and is the reason that I do not want the fisheries to be stigmatised specifically by the fact that there was a special telephone connected to the fishing industry. Ecocrime’s new tip for economic and environmental crime will bring the same benefits to the life of illegality without a whole industry being spread as worse than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1315	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I did not really get an answer to what I asked for. As far as I know, this tip phone has worked well. It is stated that every two days since the tip phone was created, serious tips have been received that have led to reactions. I record that many in the fishing industry regard this as a good resource management, a good way to take care of the resources. I refer to Dagbladet today, where a combination of the Minister for Fisheries, who is a fisherman, says the same thing. I have also registered that the Minister for Fisheries describes this as an indication. Then I have to ask: is it not a social obligation for everyone to report when registering illegalities in society? What is the difference in principle as regards the ratio to the declared value of this phone that has been operated as a fish cheat phone, and the one to be created by Økokrim, which is also a tip phone? To use it must be given the same name as the Minister for Fisheries here has used about the original, as indicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1324	I insist that fish fraud is a serious environmental and financial crime. It is a threat to sustainable resource management. But a separate tip for the fishing industry was involved in stigmatizing the industry and the fishermen. The new phone to be set up under Ecokrim is a phone where all economic and environmental crime can be reported, and it is, in my opinion, a better system, because it avoids stigmatizing coastal people as worse than others. I stress that all forms of economic and environmental crime should lead to the same response from society. Then I stress that it is received approx. 140 tips for the tip phone since it was established in January this year. The majority of the tips have been related to bottom fish species in the three northernmost counties. These 140 tips have led to 10 reviews. I would like to stress that, on the part of the Government, we attach great importance to the fact that serious, anonymous tips on illegalities are to be followed up by the authorities, and a tip-phone under the auspices of Ecocrim ensures it in a proper way, including with regard to the fishing industry. But I underline: it doesn't have the same stigmatizing effect as the original phone. And then I stress that there are a wide range of other measures in place and actions that will be assessed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1331	I'm familiar with the number that has led to the review, but there are some pretty big issues here. I want to ask, when the Council of State is talking about stigmatisation: what has changed the situation after a total accumulation, as far as I remember, got behind this phone when it was created? What has now been done to view it as a stigmatisation of this industry, and not as a means of securing resources and obtaining legitimate conditions in the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1338	We have to admit that fish fraud was and is a serious problem. A number of measures were taken, one of which was the tipphone. We see that after that time it has produced results in the form that the industry itself has made a settlement with the unculture that was. I think it is important to stress that the fishing industry is no worse than all other industries, that we are now subject to the Ecocrim tip-phone. In this way, crime in the fishing industry is treated in the same way with regard to anonymous tips, as with other crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1348	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Social Affairs: «Many serving places in Moss with a gift permit break the alcohol code because they do not receive alcohol-deficient beer and wine with low alcohol content. Under the rules, they must have a reasonable choice of low-alcohol beer and low-alcohol wine between 0,7 % and 2,5 % by volume which are no longer included in the sample of the Vinmonopolet and the wholesale companies, and are made aware of the fact that they are subject to check-ups. What can the Council of State do to ensure compliance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1357	I will give the representative Hedstrøm partial correctness. It has been found to be difficult to obtain low-alcohol wine. Low alcohol beer – i.e. light beer – it is still known to be a good offer. It is produced, inter alia, by: by Norwegian breweries. In other words, the ministry is aware of the problem, and on 16 October this year a consultation note was sent out proposing an amendment to the alcohol regulation. At the same time, it means that all the municipalities in the country have received information about the matter. According to the Alcohol Code, outlets shall keep a reasonable selection of alcoholic beverages, i.e.: beer and wine with between 0,70 and 2,50 % by volume of alcohol and of so-called non-alcoholic beverages, i.e. beverages containing less than 0,70 % by volume of alcohol. The consultation proposal removes this distinction into alcohol swabs and non-alcoholic beverages. In line with the purpose of the regulation, namely to offer alternatives to ordinary beer and wine to those who so wish, it is proposed that the tipping points should have a reasonable choice of beer and wine with less than 2,50 % by volume of alcohol. This selection may consist of only non-alcoholic beer and non-alcoholic wine.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1368	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was entirely satisfactory. That means that we are able to remove one of the many moles contained in our legislation. In fact, as the Council of State points out, the restaurant industry, those with the grant of donations, the pieces of nails and are nervous when they receive gift checks on Securitas, because they cannot satisfy the legislation as it has been to this day. Some of the older restaurants have left a bottle of Martini Flash, which the Wine Monopoly led a few years ago, and which had less than 2.5 % vol. alcohol, and put it up on the counter when the tipping comes. But all the new restaurateurs have not had that opportunity and have been afraid to lose the grant. Some of them have probably traveled to Sweden and obtained the option from there. So I'll give the Council of State honor. This is a step in the right direction, so that business – in this respect the restaurant industry – can function properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1378	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Government states in its statement that they will fight poverty problems. This view shares the Socialist Left Party. It is therefore with concern that we see that the two main signals that have so far come from the Government on the matter are a new definition which technically means that fewer people become poor, and a signal that redistribution to the benefit of the poorest is to be done by taking from those who are so far above the poverty line and giving to those who are below. What kind of value basis does such thinking base on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1387	As Andersen's representative has registered, the Co-operation Board places poverty problems high on the agenda. In the Declaration of Accession, Prime Minister Bondevik announced a separate action plan on poverty, with a number of targeted measures to improve the living conditions of poor families with children and others who need help to get out of poverty. The analysis in the Equalisation Communication, which was addressed in the United Kingdom in June 2000, showed that poor living conditions and poverty no longer apply to whole and easily identifiable groups, but to a small minority within the different groups. The causes of each individual’s problems are many and complex. There are often people who have weak links with the labour market, some who lack satisfactory housing. Some do not have the necessary health services and suffer from mental and drug problems. In particular, children living in families with low income and living conditions problems over time are an important target group. That is why I am concerned that insufficient or lack of income protection is only one of the factors that must be at the root of finding effective and targeted measures to help people out of poverty. A continuous problem, as demonstrated in the Equalisation Communication, is that the overall welfare systems are not sufficiently accurate to address the particular problems and needs of individuals. There is a greater need than improving economic and social protection by increasing transfers in the population and rates of social assistance. Measures are needed such as those most difficult to deal with, and not least children. It is therefore necessary to focus on measures that go beyond better benefits and schemes for parents. Measures must be truly qualified in relation to working life. At the same time, action needs to be taken in relation to children who experience being excluded from school, play and leisure together with peers due to poverty. I am therefore not at all concerned with redefining poverty so that it looks finer on paper – on the contrary. I am committed to targeting and improving existing schemes so that they capture more people and groups in need of additional assistance and support. If it turns out that we have welfare systems and measures that do not work as they were supposed to, and that they do not give people a better life, they need to be replaced by new schemes and measures. In this perspective, it may be necessary to look at whether we have welfare schemes that go to groups of the population that are doing well without public support. This requires a more detailed definition of the problems, what contributes to the fight against poverty both in the short and long term, and how we should follow this up over time. In this respect, I have asked for input from professional and research communities both in clarifying the concept of poverty and in bringing ideas into good practice. I've done this based on a recognition that I don't have all the answers on how to do this, and that we need input from many environments to move on. This does not mean that the Government’s action plan will mainly focus on new investigations and analyses — on the contrary. We want to get on the track quickly, but not more quickly than we know that both the need and the results will be documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1400	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State is not concerned with measures that only make it look finer on the paper. I don't feel safe anyway, because we're talking about two slightly different things. We're talking about the urgent need for an improvement in the economy, and we're talking about long-term measures. And in terms of the long-term measures, it hasn't been on SV to get them in place. In terms of short-term measures, they are constantly being problematised. We know which people this applies to. This applies to people who live on social assistance, to combined social security and social assistance and to the homeless. The Council of State says in its reply that she is concerned with social exclusion in relation to children, and that means that it is the relative concept of poverty that the Council of State chooses to use in this context. Does the Council of State agree that we also need to have such a concept when it comes to adults, so that they are not blamed, ashamed and punished because they are poor, and that we need to build up and protect their dignity and their faith in the future rather than have more tests of need and measures that make them feel downgraded and lose faith that they can create a better future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1407	I take note of the views of the representative. The work facing the Government is not limited to the short-term measures that are now in the context of the additional proposal. The main action will be the actions we have been asked to assess in relation to an action plan against poverty. This isn't easy. This is complex. It's hard. These are short-term measures, on which the representative is involved, but also long-term measures. The problems are, as I said, complex, and once the Council of State has invited academic and research communities to participate in the work, wide political environments and political parties are also invited to make their views known. And so I notice the views that the representative comes with. I also hope that in the future there will be a useful discussion regarding the work on the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1416	Another issue that concerns SV is signals that came in the Evening Post on 30 October from the State Secretary of the Council. It says: ‘Those who manage and who receive only a small but totally unnecessary grant will lose it for the benefit of those who do not manage without it. That means we're going to have a much sharper social profile." At the same time, this is a government that has a tough policy for people who have very good advice. Does this mean that the government's social policy is redistributing between the poorest, or between the almost poor and the poor, and that the government does not see that both the rich state and perhaps the wealthy part of the population have to be involved if we are to manage to lift those who have the least, and give them a decent life?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1426	I take note of the views of the representative. The government is concerned about bringing the poverty problem to life and now those that really apply, and that are many today. It is mainly the homeless, those who lack work, those who do not get to meet in spite of a number of arrangements. It is not just words when the Government and the Minister believe that this is an area that encourages hard work and community solutions. It is also important to stress that the working line is an important starting point for the work we are also going to do in relation to the problem of poverty. As I said, I note the views of the representative and would like to include them in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1433	I will promise the Council of State that when it comes to strengthening the working line, it should not be on SV, but it is also about money. Governments were involved in housing, and there are two issues that are important. It's important that we have a social housing policy that makes people not turn into clients just because they have a low social security or a low income, as it is now happening in Oslo. Does the Council of State see that there is a need to protect the rentals of these dwellings, so that people are not clientised just because they have a low income? And will the Council of State ensure that the children who now actually live at the shelter do not do so, and that it is implemented immediately? There can be no doubt that hostitis is not a suitable place for families with children, and that it is that children should grow up or be at all in such places, not exactly will strengthen their chances of doing well in the world. This is a theme that can be arranged overnight. There are other accommodation options that are not actually much more expensive than the hostel, and are much more suitable for families with children as housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1440	Children at the hospital are an unworthy solution, and it is the Government's ambition that it should not take place. I also hope that the representative has noticed the signals that the Council of State has given in relation to getting national quality criteria in terms of accommodation or housing in a temporary situation. I have also noticed that the Municipality of Oslo has gone to the step of assessing – I don't know if it has yet happened – to buy up some older dwellings just to improve them, given that there is going to be a different quality than there are many places today. Housing is a matter of course for a lot of us, but based on the numbers I've got, it's 6,000-7 000 homeless. It is a challenge for Norway as a nation. It is an ambition for this Government to assess measures in this respect. And I notice that here's the opportunity for effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1447	Question 15 has been answered earlier, and then we go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1453	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Hydro ASA government has decided to reduce the production of magnesium on the island of Her Island. This will have major ring-effects for the whole border area. Other industries and activities in the area are also exposed. What will the Council of State do to meet the special problems this region will face?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1462	The company meeting in Norsk Hydro ASA adopted as known on 25 October. reducing the production of magnesium on the island of Here Island. About 600 jobs are directly affected by the closure of magnesium production. In addition, there are, of course, consequences for other businesses and communities. The background to the case is that Norsk Hydro has assessed its strategy in the light of developments in the global magnesium market. This process resulted in the management and business meeting of the company no longer so opportunities for future profitable and competitive production of magnesium on the island of Here Island. It's an assessment that Hydro has taken and that I take note of. I would like to stress that the Government is committed to facilitating the further development of the business environment in the Grenland region. The group of large industrial enterprises and the rest of the industry in the area provide an important starting point for future value creation. It is therefore desirable that in the future, a process involving the whole region and local authorities play with both industry in the region and central authorities in order to exploit the potential for the development of a forward-looking and competitive business. The petrochemical industry in Grenland already has a significant gas-based activity. The government is concerned that natural gas is increasingly used for domestic value creation and is doing so in an environmentally friendly way. I would also like to point out that Norsk Hydro has given signals that the company will contribute funds and human resources to stimulate new industrial activities in the region. As far as I am aware, the company here assesses several interesting possibilities. Such an effort is, in my opinion, a very important contribution, and it is my hope that this will produce desired results as well. Both in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have kept us constantly informed about the situation in the Grenlands region. In this context, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has already provided financial support for an analysis of the consequences of the closure of the magnesium plant. We have to come back to the question of any further state involvement. These include: the need to get an overall overview of both the situation and the possible consequences before we can decide on this. Despite the fact that there is little doubt that the closure of the magnesium plant in Her Islanda will pose significant challenges, I am optimistic on behalf of the Borders community and the business community in the region. This area has considerable human resources and a business that, in my opinion, should be well equipped to meet the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1477	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is reassuring in some areas, but in other areas it is not. According to an article in the Evening Post on September 26, d.o.b. the rapporteur, Elisabeth Nilsen, says the following: ‘... the experience of previous large-scale relocations in Grenland suggests that for each industrial job being laid down, two additional jobs in the community will be lost. Subcontractors and others living from the large enterprises and their employees.» So she fears that as many as 3,000 jobs can disappear. This is also supported by the Fafo Research Foundation. Therefore, it is not reassuring that the department leaves the task of providing new jobs to the Hydro and Grenlands area alone. On 1 April, 600 jobs are laid down and probably many more are lost. An analysis of the consequences is good, but there must be measures in place on 1 April when we get the closures. Can the Council of State say anything about the timing of any involvement of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1491	I fully understand that to the extent that this is fully implemented, which all indicates, there will be 600 people on 2 April who do not have the work they had the day before. I understand the concern that local politicians have, and to the extent that more people in the Grenlands area also have. I've also had a meeting with some of these. However, I believe that the most pessimistic estimates of the ring effects may appear to be relatively large. Today, at VG, we can read what the County Labour Office says about these things. In fact, in the last few months, Hydro has already reduced to 540 jobs without at all reflecting the unemployment statistics for the border area. The border area is an area of approx. 100000 people, with a significant number of unoccupied jobs. I think we're going to wait to make an exact plan from the public for what we're going to do given certain things that have to happen. However, we are prepared with the means at our disposal, and it is in all material terms the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that has means of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1498	I thank the Council of State for the answer and look forward to the cooperation with the Council of State in the Business Committee. We will also follow closely from the Labour Party in the work done in relation to the Grenlands region, both in the Municipal Committee and in the Trade Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1506	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘31. In October 2001, the Advocate General presented his statement on the follow-up to the ‘Sleipner’ accident. The recommendation states that there is a lack of legal framework for the possible prosecution of the Maritime Directorate and that legislative changes should be considered in order to enable this to be done. Will the Council of State make such an assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1515	In the opinion of 31 October d.o.b. on the loss of the high-speed boat M/S «Sleipner», the Advocate General of the Council stated that, in his opinion, there is no particular doubt that the lack of prior control by the Directorate of the Maritime Administration of the training of the company of the crew and the issuing by the Directorate of the operating authorisation of the vessel was not in accordance with the requirements of the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft, the so-called ‘Sleipner’ Code. The code has been implemented in Norwegian law through the Regulation of the Directorate for Maritime Defence of 5 January 1998 No. 6 on the construction, equipment and operation of high-speed craft used as passenger ships or cargo ships. However, the Advocate General concludes that the case is dismissed as a criminal offence. In the absence of a criminal response to the Maritime Directorate, the Riksadvokat argues that the directorate's breach of the speedboat code's requirements has not been made punishable. According to Section 3 of the regulation of 5 January 1998, responsibility for compliance with the regulation is added to shipowners, shipping companies, construction workshops and drivers. The criminal provision in Section 32 of the Regulation provides that an infringement is punishable under the general provisions of Section 339 of the Criminal Code. 2, which does not specify what or who can be punished. This means that the regulation does not provide for a penalty for the Maritime Directorate. I find it reasonable, as a starting point, that the responsibility for the construction, equipment and operation of high-speed craft used as passenger ships or cargo ships has been added to shipowners, shipping companies, construction workshops and drivers. These are those which have the practical prerequisites for ensuring that the ship is properly constructed and operated. However, I am recording the Riksadvokat's criticism of the Maritime Directorate's work in this matter. I can also show that the Maritime Director in the press release of 1 November d.o.b. has stated that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs takes a serious view of the facts raised by the Advocate General and that the Directorate takes note of his decision. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs is an executive agency. Individuals in administrative bodies may be punished if they show gross insensibility in the service. Although the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is an executive body, there is no doubt that corporate sanctions can be imposed: «When a penalty order has been violated by someone who has acted on behalf of an undertaking»; cf. Section 48(a) of the penal code. Thus, the criminal law could have been applied if some of the Directorate-General's people had been grossly incapacitated in the service. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs may also be penalised in cases of so-called anonymous and cumulative errors where there is no individual to be punished. The threshold for such a reaction is high, and it has not been found relevant in this case. I don't think we can improve safety at sea by including the Maritime Directorate in the list of those who can be punished for infringements of the 1998 regulations. We should maintain that it is those who build and operate the ship, who are responsible, and they should be responsible for their mistakes even though the Maritime Directorate has not discovered that something was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1533	I thank you for your answer. But I will honestly admit that it is a little suspicious that a public body that according to the Riksadvokat has failed so enormously is not made liable for criminal law. I hear what the minister says in relation to the fact that the threshold for a reaction should be high. But is it the minister's view that we really have a law that is good enough in case we were to discover that it fails again, even though we all sincerely hope that it does not? It's a pretty big responsibility of the Maritime Directorate to make sure it's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1538	There is no doubt that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has a significant responsibility. It is clear from the Riksadvokat's report. What, in my opinion, is essential in this matter is in a way whether to share the responsibility that has always been assigned to the owner, builds and operates these ships. I think it will be very harmful as well as being able to add up to a policy that would powder this responsibility. There must never be any doubt that, although the government has created a body of control in most areas of society, the responsibility is always on those who operate, cf. something looked everyday like having a car of your own. Although we have had EU controls and the Car Authority has looked at it, it is always the person who sits in the car who is driving, who is responsible. I want to establish the same principle in relation to this. We have criminal provisions that can be applied to the extent that gross negligence is shown, but that an inspector ignores something in a specific matter, must not exempt shipowners and captains from the obvious responsibility they have and have always had.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1545	I can agree with the minister on that. But again a little in relation to what was the Riksadvokat's point, namely that we did not have a law that was good enough. Does the Minister think that is good enough today, and that there is therefore no need for an investigation in line with what is on my question, which is in line with what the Riksadvokat says?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1550	As the representative knows, there are not many days since this report came. Of course, we're not done with the fine-tuning of it, and the question of whether we should do some follow-up action. What I said in my first answer was in a way the main response to where the responsibility lies, and that there must be no doubt about it. Then, of course, we'll go into this case and see if there's any point from the Riksadvokat relating to this matter, but which is of a more general nature, and whether it would be natural for the Department and the Maritime Directorate to take an initiative for any adjustment of the law. I must be allowed to come back to that. But the main track here is totally stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1560	‘Jotunheimen and Valdresruten Bilgesellschaft AS have a 10-year-old application for the extension of the express bus loops Bergen-Lillehammer, so that it moves Gjøvik to Elverum instead of Lillehammer. Will the Council of State contribute to the successful conclusion of this application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1567	Jotunheimen and Valdresruten Bilgesellschaft AS applied on 28 February 1996 for a change of line for the existing route Bergen-Lillehammer, so that the route would go via Gjøvik to Elverum instead of Lillehammer. Applications for permits and changes to the permits for cross-country bus routes shall be decided by the Ministry of Transport. Before any decision is taken in these cases, they are prepared by one of the counties concerned. In view of the fact that the change requested in this particular case affects the State of Uppland most, it was decided by agreement between the relevant authorities that the municipality of Uppland should prepare the case. The Norwegian bus company Mjösa, authorised on routes around Mjösa, applied approximately at the same time as Jotunheimen and Valdresruten Car Company AS for the rights on a route from Elverum/Hamar on Ferensen to Gol and the link to Bergensbanen. The upland county council had several meetings with the companies to get a common route solution without achieving final clearance. Together with the County of Hedmark it has also been working with the companies to get the best possible offer for travellers within and from this area. The Ministry will now, in consultation with the interested parties, clarify whether the 1996 application remains topical. If the company wants to maintain the application for the change in line, I will ensure that it is completed within a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1578	I am pleased that the Council of State will make a quick decision on this, because it has actually been going on for quite many years now. This is a real application, which has been in the media for a long time, and it's probably not just during treatment in the Uppland County Municipality, because Elverum is in Hedmark, and it's here that someone really has tension under it. The East-West Express route is the most important, perhaps the only link that the inner East has with Bergen and Sogn. It is also important for Valdres now to get attached to the Flybus Express that goes from Gjøvik to the Gardermoen at two hours intervals. That's probably one of the reasons why this company will now connect to Gjøvik, instead of driving over the hill where there are no people, to Lillehammer, and that they'll connect to Hamar, which is an important city, and to Elverum, who has a great military embarrassment. [[President clubs]] It is important that this Will the Council of State ensure that this is treated quickly – and not so late – whether it is the county council of Hedmark or Uppland that stands in the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1587	If it is that there is still an application, I will do mine to get a quick treatment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1592	I have a follow-up question. It is somewhat worrying that there is going to be so much bureaucracy to do just to make a simple trasé conversion, because this is not an application for a new concession, for a completely new route. This is a route that goes today, and there are only questions about replacing a city with another city. Will the Council of State ensure that it is more up to the companies themselves to make changes to the route instead of going the way of a violent bureaucracy, which will deal with the changes for years?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1599	It is precisely on such issues that it is important that the municipalities concerned be involved, not in order to create bureaucracy, but simply in order to find the best solutions for those in need of this transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1607	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The speed of many roads is now reduced at random according to the discretion of the local road authority. The modern Class B motorway on E6 between Trondheim and Værnes Airport at 90 km/h has been reduced to the normal road at 80 km/h. In the national transport plan 2002 to 2011, it is clarified that the speed limit can be reduced to particularly accident-affected routes, this is not the case on that route. What will the Council of State do to bring about a single regulatory framework so that there is an equal interpretation across the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1616	The speed limit system in Norway and the background to its changes are referred to in the National Transport Plan 2002–2011, which was dealt with by the Stortinget on 15 February this year. A speed limit system is established which seeks to reduce the speed of sections where serious personal injury accidents have been recorded. This means that 70 km/h is more likely to be used as a specific speed limit through densely constructed roads and to be separated from 90 km/h to 80 km/h on some routes. However, the overall speed limit shall remain 80 km/h outside congested sections and 50 km/h within congested sections. The majority of the Committee on Transport joined the guidelines set out in the Transport Plan, as set out in the Guidelines. Inner. S. No 119 for 2000-2001. Following an extensive consultation, the Directorate of Roads then adopted new criteria for speed limits on two-field roads outside built-in areas in July this year. At the same time, a 100 km/h test scheme was introduced on some motorway sections with at least four fields, a high standard and a low accident frequency. The new criteria of the Directorate-General for Roads relate to the whole country and are based on the reduction of speed limits on routes of many and serious accidents. Although the criteria provide some opening for local assessments in view of recent or forthcoming major road safety measures on the routes, they shall ensure that the speed limit system is practised as closely as possible. Reduction from 90 km/h to 80 km/h is adopted by the Directorate of Road on a proposal from the Road Offices, in accordance with the criteria adopted. Unfortunately, part of our high-trafficked road sections with two or three fields and without the middle part of the accident burden, although the road section for road users may appear to be relatively good. E6 between Trondheim and Værnes is such a stretch. In the last five years there have been 56 personal injury accidents on the route. In these accidents, 3 people were killed, 4 were very seriously injured, 17 were seriously injured and 66 were easily injured. It is also essential that the route has several long two-way tunnels. In the new speed limit criteria, in order to increase tunnel safety, it is assumed that long road tunnels shall not have a speed limit higher than 80 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1631	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The fact that motorways are now being converted into common roads in many places in the country, and that speed limits are being reduced on more and more roads leads to the drivers losing all respect for the road signs. You can also see the 80 km/h sign where it is impossible to keep this speed without driving off the road. This will create dangerous situations that are not in line with the zero vision. Instead of improving safety with wider roads and middle parts, you go with your back into the future and sign down. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the signage is consistent with the nature of the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1638	What is the purpose of marking speed limits is precisely that drivers should stick to the speed limits set. What has been taken into account in reducing speed limits is the objective of achieving a reduction in the number of accidents. What we see from the studies that have been carried out on this is that serious damage is reduced when the speed is slowed down. Now there's also research on whether the speed actually decreases after the sign is changed, and you see that on average the speed decreases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1645	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I hope that a greater part of what the drivers pay in each year will go to improve the road network, and not the other way around. The intention of the size to allow the speed limit to be reduced to some particularly vulnerable, accident-affected routes was to prevent accidents and the signs should be accompanied by a sub-signature instead of a general reduction in speed limits at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1655	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Langs Solliveien in Fredrikstad is subjected to excessive noise load because part of heavy traffic does not comply with the speed limit of 50 km/h. The simplest, fastest and most reasonable reduction of speed and thereby the mitigation of noise will be the use of the photobox. Will the State Council consider the guidelines for the use of automatic traffic control? [[ATK]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1664	It is true, as the representative Sven Roald Hansen points out, that automatic traffic control, ATK, is primarily used as a road safety measure on routes where a traffic accident problem is registered. There is agreement between police and road authorities that this automatic traffic control system should be used as a road safety measure and not as an alternative to regular traffic monitoring to control traffic. On this basis, it has also been opened for ATK to be used for speed-absorbing purposes where the police, for various reasons, are difficult to perform normal speed monitoring, e.g. in tunnels. ATK is a measure of high socio-economic benefit and has a significant impact on speed and accident reduction when used on the routes that meet the criteria laid down. I would therefore like to give priority to the use of this measure in sections requiring accident reduction measures. However, if the main problem is noise due to high speed, other measures may be more appropriate, such as: noise protection, speed reduction with the construction of bumps, etc. On routes where there is both road safety problems and noise problems related to navigation, the use of ATK may be an appropriate measure. The solviveien, or Rv 112, which goes from the Solli Cross on the E6 down to Rolvsøysund Bru, has an annual traffic of approx. 3700 and a heavy traffic share that varies between 12 and 14 pst. The stretch is not accident-related. The average driving speed is slightly above 50 km/h, which is legal driving speed on the route, and about 15 pst. by road users a speed of 60 km/h or higher. Part of the dwellings on the route have an indoor noise level that exceeds the action limits of the Code on Local Air Pollution and Noise Limits. For these dwellings, façade measures will be implemented in order to comply with the requirements of the threshold regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1677	I'm a little bit unsure of how to understand the answer. I feel that this can be a small opening, but that you point to other measures as more natural. I'll admit this is a special case. It's a short distance. But the special thing is there's also an acceleration path, especially for heavy traffic, because the road is straight and you have to go up to 70 and then 80 km/h further. This is what creates the special noise problem, especially in the morning. One thing is that action can be taken indoors, but it is also a problem outdoors for the residents of the summer. I hope the Council of State is willing to see if such a measure can't be used, which will be the fairest, fastest and most effective. After all, there will be a small boost to the Government’s objective of ‘Simplifying Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1686	It is important for the whole sector that we find the best and most effective solutions. In the case of noise, it is important to look at the responses to needs and within existing frameworks. We will continue to work, both in this particular case and in general, to find good measures that can solve the noise problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1693	Unless the Council of State makes an additional proposal on Friday, which provides a rather exciting financial framework, I am not in doubt that the most reasonable and quick thing in this case will be to use the photo box. It is an action that can be reversed on the day when major action can be taken, such as a reorientation of the road or, where appropriate, the introduction of a noise screen. I hope that if the residents take this up locally, the Vegvesen will consider making a test here without being afraid that there will be photoboxes over the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1700	I accept all the good ideas about how to solve such challenges, so I'm going to take with me the input I've received. It may still be that automatic traffic control will be linked to road safety, but to the extent that in a combination it can also solve other challenges, such as noise, I find it quite natural that it will be assessed. And we have to evaluate the possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1707	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1714	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: «Luigino Longo is imprisoned in Gothenburg. His Norwegian family, despite several enquiries to the Norwegian authorities, have not received any assistance because Longo is an Italian citizen. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not believe that Norway has a special responsibility for people who have been living in our country for a long time, and will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take a positive view of a request from Longo's family to help take initiatives towards Swedish authorities in order to improve his settlement conditions?'
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1723	Let me first say that there has been a contact between the Norwegian family of Luigino Longo and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was recently a meeting in which an understanding was expressed of the limitations of the Norwegian authorities in the light of Longo's Italian citizenship. In addition, no request for a formal Norwegian initiative was submitted to the Swedish authorities at the meeting. According to the Foreign Act, the EEAS is responsible for the interests of Norwegian citizens in the rest of the world and not of foreign citizens. In this case, it would be a responsibility of the Italian authorities. I trust that Longo's rights are respected by the Italian authorities, represented through their embassies in Stockholm and Oslo respectively. I am not aware that Luigino Longo is going to zone under particularly difficult conditions in Gothenburg. The settlement conditions in Swedish prisons I guess are the same as those we have here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1730	I thank you for the answer, although of course I wanted a slightly different answer. We are well aware that Luigino Longo is struggling with a serious heart disease, and that it is therefore difficult for him to overcome the conditions he has today at the Göteborg police station. He and his lawyer have wanted him either to be released or to be transferred to better terms of compensation, so that he can have the opportunity to appeal his case to the Swedish Supreme Court. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs – despite his previous answers – what opportunities exist for the Norwegian authorities, if you would like, to take such an initiative towards Sweden on the basis of the fact that Longo has Norwegian daughter and Norwegian family.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1739	I have full confidence that the Italian and Swedish authorities will find a solution to a matter like this. I see no reason for any particular Norwegian initiative towards the Italian and Swedish authorities in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1744	I can only say thank you for the answer. Although I record that there are very many people who have close links with Norway, and who may be in a situation where the authorities who are normally going to be responsible for them do not follow them up, I find it a little reassuring that the Norwegian authorities are not willing to accept such a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1751	Question 21 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1765	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1773	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1785	The terrorist attacks against the United States were aimed not only at innocent people, but at fundamental democratic values and our open economies. In the period after 11 September, we have faced a situation of economic setback and reduced trade. However, we must not let the terrorists win. We have to stand together to fight back fear and adversity. We have to stand together to maintain the hope of a better future for everyone. We need to stand together to facilitate new economic growth and progress in all countries – not least in developing countries. That is why we need to strengthen international cooperation and fairer framework conditions for international trade. Therefore, we need to actively support the World Trade Organisation. That is why we need a successful ministerial conference in Qatar. The co-operation administration will pursue an economic policy where the main objectives are work for all, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. A strong and competitive business life is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives. Norway’s economy is well adapted to global framework conditions, but it is also small and open — and therefore vulnerable. We need strong global legislation that can give us maximum predictability and help our business to gain better market access and equivalent framework conditions on the world market. It is therefore in our clear self-interest to strengthen and further develop multilateral trade legislation through a new and wide round of negotiations in the WTO. On 9 November, members of the Government from the 142 member countries of the WTO in Qatar are gathered to decide on the framework for new negotiations within the World Trade Organisation. The statement made at the Stortinget on 1 June this year on the preparations for the WTO conference in Qatar, and the subsequent debate, showed that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget on Norwegian positions. The cooperative government will build on this consensus. We will be a constructive player in the further development of the international trade legislation. We will work for better market access for Norwegian export industries, and ensure a good, varied and reasonable supply of goods and services to Norwegian consumers. We will work to maintain a national space of action to pursue an agricultural policy in accordance with our needs. We will promote the consideration of the environment in international trade. And, above all, we will work to ensure that the interests of developing countries are safeguarded. After the summer vacation, the WTO member countries have conducted intensive consultations on the preparation of a final declaration by the Qatar Ministerial Conference. The President of the WTO General Council presented on 27 October a revised draft declaration which has now been forwarded to the Ministerial Conference and will form the basis for the discussion in Qatar. The Qatar Ministerial Declaration will be very important, as it will form the concrete framework for further negotiations. From the Norwegian side, we believe that the draft constitutes a good starting point. In particular, it takes into account a number of key Norwegian export industries, including: related to market access negotiations for industrial products and services. On some other points, however, we could have wished for wording more in line with our national views. In the following brief, I want to review ten important areas of negotiation – in the light of Norwegian views and assessments. Firstly, negotiations on market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products, are a traditional negotiating theme in the WTO. This theme is adequately addressed in the draft negotiating mandate. The exploitation and processing of fish and marine resources is the basis for a significant proportion of Norwegian foreign trade and is one of the main contributions to employment and housing in districts. At the same time, there is a significant potential for further development of this industry. Better market access for a wide range of our export products will be a high priority task for Norway in the negotiations. Secondly, the demand from developing countries for improved market access. Specific measures are discussed to help, in particular, the least developed countries — the so-called MUL countries — which have little power to benefit from a more open international market. Norway’s decision earlier this year – in line with, inter alia: with the EU – giving customs and quota-free imports to all products, except weapons, from LDCs is an important step in the right direction. Thirdly, as a follow-up to the Uruguay Round seven years ago, negotiations on trade in services took place on 1 January last year. The service sector is of major importance to the Norwegian economy and accounts for a significant proportion of the growth in Norwegian exports. Service negotiations will also be an important part of a new broad round of negotiations. The Government’s aim is to contribute to better market access for Norwegian service exports in important areas, such as: shipping services, offshore services, telecommunications and IT services and energy-related services. During the negotiations, we will work actively to promote our offensive interests in these areas. The WTO Service Agreement provides for the Member States to decide for themselves which obligations they will assume. The draft Ministerial Declaration confirms the right to make regulations in order to meet national policy objectives, such as: in the fields of environment, education, culture and health. We want to go in so that this right does not weaken. Fourthly, agricultural negotiations. These, like the service negotiations, have been going on since last year, based on a mandate laid down in Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture. In the context of a new round of negotiations, agricultural exporting countries – including a number of developing countries – want a new mandate with stronger obligations for both increased market access and reductions in so-called internal and export aid in the industrialized countries. The so-called ‘Cairns Group’, made up of a total of 18 industrial and developing countries, imposes extensive requirements for further liberalisation and wants trade in agricultural products to be regulated in the same way as trade in industrial products. A number of other developing countries and the United States strongly support this group’s demands and improve market access, the reduction of export aid and the reduction of internal support schemes for agriculture among its main requirements in the forthcoming negotiations. On the Norwegian side, we assume that there is still a need for a separate agricultural agreement in the WTO, which provides the Member States with sufficient room for action to pursue an active agricultural policy that provides the basis for decentralised agriculture with a varied use structure in line with our needs. It must be possible to maintain an agricultural sector under difficult climatic conditions and to take care of so-called non-commercial considerations, such as rural, food security, the protection of cultural landscapes and biodiversity considerations. Japan, Korea, Switzerland and the EU in particular share Norway's views in the WTO, and there has been close cooperation with these countries in the preparation of the Ministerial Conference. We aim to continue this cooperation in Qatar, where we include: will be involved in the organisation of a dedicated ministerial conference on non-trade concerns, with a wide range of developing and industrialised countries being invited. On the Norwegian side, we believe that the Qatar Declaration should be based as far as possible on the current mandate for the agricultural negotiations. The draft text submitted by the President-in-Office goes beyond that Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture, but also seeks to balance the various interests. However, the draft does not go as far as the proposal on the table at the end of the Seattle Ministerial Conference. However, we should work actively, in cooperation with other countries with similar interests, to achieve, if possible, a better balance at this point in the Ministerial Declaration. Fifthly, the Government will support a regulatory tightening in order to limit the use of anti-dumping measures. The Norwegian fishing industry has on repeated occasions been unduly exposed to the use of anti-competitive mechanisms, such as countervailing and anti-dumping measures. Therefore, a better and clearer regulatory framework for the use of anti-dumping measures will be clearly in our interest. A number of developing countries, with Chile and Brazil at the head, as well as countries such as Japan, Korea and Norway, require negotiations on greater discipline with regard to the application of the anti-dumping rules. On the other hand, the United States is relatively alone in being skeptical of change, proposing a two-step approach — first an analysis and then, if necessary, negotiations at some points. On the Norwegian side, we will work for as binding a text as possible. Sixth, the Government will work towards integrating environmental and sustainable development considerations into all relevant WTO negotiations. Consideration of the environment and sustainable development should be a guiding principle in a new round of negotiations. In the draft Ministerial Declaration, this is well on the way, but could have been emphasised even more clearly. Furthermore, it is important that the WTO work on trade, environment and development is coordinated and reflected in the Ministerial Declaration. Most developing countries remain sceptical about integrating the environment as their own negotiating theme into the WTO, fearing that environmental considerations should be used to justify the exclusion of their products from the markets of the industrialized countries. The draft Ministerial Declaration proposes that, up to the next ministerial meeting, Member States should assess the need for clarification of the relationship between the WTO and international environmental agreements and the impact of environmental measures on market access. In addition, it is proposed that Member States assess the environmental aspects of the intellectual property agreement, the importance of labelling schemes and the benefits of increased trade liberalisation for the environment and development. From the Norwegian side, we support such an approach. We believe it is important that these issues are discussed in the WTO and that it would be an advantage if it were decided whether it was necessary to start new negotiations in these areas. The same applies to proposals for clarification of WTO legislation in relation to the precautionary principle. Seventhly, we would like to move from the Norwegian side in order to develop multilateral rules on investment and competition. These matters should be the subject of a new round of negotiations. An investment regulation must ensure both the right of the host country to regulate and, at the same time, the need for predictable and non-discriminatory framework conditions for foreign companies. A multilateral regulatory framework for competition will also contribute to increased cooperation between national competition authorities and not undermine the reduction of barriers to trade by monopoly or cartel activities. Furthermore, negotiations in these areas must pay particular attention to the needs and interests of developing countries. There has been opposition from many developing countries to the launch of multilateral investment and competition legislation negotiations. This is due, inter alia, to: the fear that international legislation will prevent them from pursuing a national food and development policy. The present draft Ministerial Declaration presents an approach to which we should be able to subscribe. It is proposed here, among others. Member States will use the time until the next ministerial meeting to clarify what should be included in negotiations on a new investment and competition legislation. The draft shall include: for the development of the host country and the governance of the authorities, and that technical assistance must be provided to developing countries in order to provide them with real negotiating capacity. eighth, in relation to the so-called TRIPS Agreement, which lays down rules for trade in products protected by, inter alia: patents, trademarks and copyrights are aimed at drawing up a separate Ministerial Declaration on the relationship between patents and public health. The main aim is to clarify some of the rights granted by the TRIPS Agreement to individual countries — in particular developing countries — to obtain access to reasonable patented medicinal products. Norway will actively support this. ninth, Norway has worked actively to put the relationship between trade and labour standards on the WTO agenda. However, the vast majority of Member States, including all developing countries, oppose the discussion of labour standards within the WTO for fear that this will allow restrictive measures against countries with a low wage level. Due to this considerable resistance, Norway will work towards a concrete reference to labour standards in the Ministerial Declaration, while stressing that the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, should have a leading role in this field. Other international organisations, including the WTO, must also be actively involved in the work of the ILO. Last but not least, the Government will agree that the specific problems of developing countries will be given high priority in the new round of negotiations. A majority of the 142 WTO member countries are developing countries. A large number of these have expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that their particular problems and interests are not closely reflected enough in the existing WTO legislation. Both for the developing countries themselves and for the legitimacy of the WTO, it is important that the forthcoming round of negotiations should better safeguard the interests of developing countries. Trade is a prerequisite for economic development. Our objective must therefore be to increase participation of the poorest countries in international trade and its positive effects. We can better facilitate this through, for example: improved market access for important products and regulatory design to better address developing countries’ needs. In particular, it is important to increase technical assistance to developing countries. The requirements of developing countries in terms of interpretation, implementation and amendment of existing agreements have been discussed since the Seattle Ministerial Conference in 1999. Some of these requirements will now be met at the Qatar Ministerial Conference. The rest will have to be included as an integral part of the negotiating mandate of the Ministerial Conference. This is a solution we have welcomed from the Norwegian side. China and Taiwan have concluded their accession negotiations and are expected to become new members in a short time. At the same time, the accession negotiations with Russia have been revitalised. The WTO thus becomes not only in the name but also in the benefit of a truly global trade organisation. The WTO will become an increasingly important tool for combating poverty and promoting social development and political stability. However, this requires further development of WTO legislation. We need to enable the WTO to meet new challenges. We have to believe that the main objective in Qatar is not to achieve results, but to gather on an agenda for further negotiations – a platform for progress. We need to agree on a broad and comprehensive round of negotiations so that all interests can be heard and balanced. We now have a much better basis for reaching consensus in Qatar than we had in Seattle. The draft Ministerial Declaration now available suggests a more realistic level of ambition and seeks to ensure the best possible overall interests of the Member States. The WTO has put a great deal of effort into restoring confidence in the Member States and creating better cooperation within the organisation. In particular, the experience of the Seattle Conference has accelerated this work. Changes have therefore now been made to ensure that all countries are given a better opportunity to promote national views in the negotiation process. World trade today needs a vitamin injection. We need more trade – not less. Several countries must be given the opportunity to participate fully in the global economy, taking into account the least developed Member States. A lot is at stake. If we don't reach consensus in Qatar, we're at risk of undermining the entire multilateral trading system. This will not serve anyone — the least developed countries. All countries – including Norway – must therefore be willing to show the necessary political will and flexibility during the Qatar negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1895	In the light of the presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a brief debate will be held, limited to one speaker from each political group in the United Kingdom, and finally the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1898	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Thorbjørn Jagland, made a statement on 1 June this year on the overall political objectives of the Labour Party Government in Norway's work in the WTO, and I am pleased to note that this government is continuing the line that was then adopted and on which there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget. This means that even if governments change, the attitude towards WTO negotiations is the same. And it's probably also related to the fact that it's the same officials who write these extensive presentations, but different politicians who read them out. And sometimes the officials of the big groups work too! I will briefly address some of the areas that I believe are important in the negotiations. Norway, together with other countries, has a particular interest in international trade legislation which obliges all countries. The WTO has developed into a trade policy forum for the whole of global society. It is estimated that when Russia joins, more than 98 pst. international trade takes place between WTO countries. Therefore, the World Trade Organisation is one of the main bodies for the further development of the international framework to meet the challenges of globalisation. The WTO is therefore about a better organised world, a fairer organised world. This requires the special needs and interests of developing countries to be met. This is particularly true of LDCs. A strong, open and rules-based trading system is therefore necessary. The challenge is that poor countries are given a real opportunity to participate actively in the negotiations, thereby contributing to the further development of such trade legislation. Both in terms of market access, regulation and transfer of competences, more needs to be done. The objective must be to enable developing countries to better participate in and benefit from the international trading system, thereby providing the basis for economic growth and poverty reduction. The crucial thing is that we succeed in developing in the poor world, and WTO negotiations are just about this. The Labour Party Government decided to go in for duty-free and quota-free imports of all products, except weapons, from the least developed countries. It has also been approved in Stortinget. By doing so, Norway is at the forefront of improving market access for the poorest countries in the world. It is a little unclear to me what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought there was a need for ‘to achieve a better balance’ at the point in the Ministerial Declaration on Agricultural Negotiations. Otherwise, we end up with what was expressed, but with a reservation that if the ‘better balance’ is meant to be more restricted, we will mark the reservation in relation to it. The second thing I want to talk about is the need to have an appropriate dialogue on work standards. Norway has for a long time placed great emphasis on the work on human rights, including basic labour standards. In the WTO, the Norwegian aim has been to disseminate understanding that trade needs to be based more on the consideration of such fundamental rights. However, a number of countries, including all developing countries, oppose the development of basic labour standards legislation within the WTO. It is important that the ILO, as the international body responsible for employee rights, is central to a dialogue on such rights. It is also important that WTO cooperation reflects environmental considerations. The relationship between trade and the environment is an increasingly central theme of international cooperation. Environmental considerations and sustainable development must be integrated into future negotiations. Last but not least, the previous government took a force for combating HIV/AIDS. As we all know, it is a problem that in the poorest countries, where the spread of this disease is greatest, access to drugs is at a reasonable price the worst. In the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the price and availability of medicinal products are central. We must ensure that patent law does not prevent the poorest countries from accessing medicinal products under reasonable conditions. It is hoped that the Qatar ministerial meeting will agree on a new broad round of negotiations. I wish the Government good luck in their efforts to reach an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1924	First of all, let me underline what the Foreign Minister had to say in his introduction, namely that at these times, in connection with what happened in the United States, we must stand together, and that also requires that we all participate in the process and for these countries. That is why perhaps WTO negotiations are more important than ever this time in Qatar. Just at a time when the international situation is the same as it is, it is important that we show that we want to cooperate across borders, and not least that this also has implications for the uncertainty associated with the international economy that it is important to take into account. In fact, we are facing global challenges that absolutely require global solutions. The world needs more trade, more consensual – not less. It is important that all countries now have opportunities to participate in the globalised economy, not least to tackle poverty, social development, and not least to create political stability. It is therefore important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, that WTO legislation is further developed, made more solid, and perhaps, not least, made more fair. Norway's economy is robust and well adapted to the international economy, but we're a small nation, and we're vulnerable. We therefore strongly need a global network that enables us to have predictability and access for our products on the world market on equivalent terms to everyone else. Therefore, market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products, is very important. It is not unknown to anyone in this room that this means a lot to Norway. There are large values associated with this industry. We also know that the development potential is enormous, but of course this depends on us meeting a world where we get access to our products. It is therefore important to give this priority in the WTO negotiations. At the same time, it is also important to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs had to say in relation to the anti-dumping rule that there is no doubt that Norwegian fishing interests have been met with unjustified restrictions in these areas. It is important for Norway as a nation that we do all we can and get to a binding agreement in this area as much as possible. In the case of service negotiations, these are also important. I think it is remembered that in 2000 the total turnover in services for Norway was NOK 137 billion – it says a little about the amount. I think 71 billion of these were related to shipping. It says what an enormous amount this has for us, and how important it is that something is also done in these areas, especially related to offshore, on which the Council of State was involved, the IT industry and energy-related services. It is important that we also move forward in this area. Many developing countries are known to be sceptical about introducing environmental standards into world trade. The fear may also be justified by the fear that industrialised countries will benefit from this legislation in order to protect themselves. But in any case, we all live on the same planet and we all depend on a sustainable environment. Therefore, it must be an objective that we should continue in the WTO negotiations to be confident that we can jointly establish rules in this area that will allow us, among other things, to do so. justify the precautionary principle. There is also another area where the representative Stoltenberg was involved, and the TRIPS agreement related to patent and public health. I know that Qatar is putting up with discussing the rights of today's legislation, but I finally hope that we can get to the point where it is possible for the developing countries to take part and benefit from medicines in the fight against AIDS and HIV at a price that they are able to pay. I believe that there should be a reasonable length of time in this area to meet them. I also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed this with investment and competition. What it says is to continue this and see what framework you can get. Each country will discuss this. It might seem a little bit ambitious, but that's the way it is, and you can go at the rate this suggests. Over 140 countries are members of the WTO, and I think 110 of them are developing countries. It also says how important it is to take these countries into account in international cooperation, in order to create the necessary trust and legitimacy for the WTO. If we do not succeed in this area, we will not be able to make the WTO the instrument that we all want it to be. I hope that you will succeed, and that you will reach a long way in Qatar to come up with common solutions for a new round of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1943	I'm going to be allowed to start there where the foreign minister ended by signaling the need to give world trade a vitamin injection, and stress that this time it's very much at stake. Last week the World Bank presented a report that unfortunately gave some gloomy predictions for world trade. While last year's growth in the developing world economy was 5.5 p.m., growth is expected to be only 2.9 p.m. this year. This is due, inter alia, to: the situation in which the world economy is located after 11 September. The World Bank report gives the clear conclusion that better world trade rules, including the reduction of barriers to trade, will increase growth in the world economy and reduce poverty in the world. Increased world trade can rapidly increase GDP by an average of 1⁄2 p.m., and by 2015 it will mean that an additional 300 million people can be lifted out of poverty as well as the 600 million who escape from normal growth. The prerequisite for achieving this growth and helping the poorest of the poor is, among other things: the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products at a completely different pace and scale than is currently envisaged. The Progress Party will not hide our preference for Norway to choose alliances related to agricultural products other than the EU, Japan, Korea and Switzerland at this WTO round. The grouping we have become a part of here represents a development in the WTO that absolutely does not promote the cause of developing countries. And although we can argue in the short term that we are fighting for important national issues, it is a question of whether Norway too will have a lot to lose on not accepting free trade developments also for agricultural products. In my opinion, Norway's strategy here is very short-term. The problem of agricultural products concerns several aspects, and it will, of course, take time to make changes that can equate agricultural products with other goods. However, we should be able to take important steps and one of the main measures is to abolish export aid. This is one of the most harmful measures, and it affects everyone. A few countries benefit from export aid. Keeping artificially low and destabilising international market prices brings lower incomes to agricultural producers in other exporting countries and interferes with local agricultural production in countries dependent on imports of agricultural products. The use of tax money in relatively rich countries to compete for goods that often come from poor countries is illogical and strongly hampering positive poverty reduction. I see no reason why agricultural export subsidies should continue. In the case of industrial products, GATT — as it was then called — abolished export aid more than 40 years ago. Although the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, placed great emphasis on the problems of developing countries, Norway, as we see it, fails to grasp what can be the most important thing for developing countries and world trade as a whole. Norway’s negotiating strategy intersects the interests of agriculture and the interests of developing countries with the opposites that we would like to be ahead of us. Another aspect I would like briefly to comment on is the desire to incorporate environmental and sustainable development considerations into all relevant WTO negotiations. The party asking questions as to whether it is appropriate for both the environmental issue and not least for trade issues to link them together. We have other and perhaps more suitable forums to discuss the environment and sustainable development. We also see a danger here that rich countries can use the environmental issue to introduce anti-trade measures against countries that currently have more than enough to fight to participate in the world economy. They do not have resources, such as: Norway, to fight the environment. In conclusion, I would also like to say that the Progress Party in the other areas is essentially behind the strategy put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1960	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for the statement, but at the same time, I would like to say that it is a paradox that the WTO debate has been more thorough in many non-governmental organisations than it has been here in Stortinget. International agreements such as this will be crucial to whether or not we can solve fundamental issues, both globally and nationally, such as the development of the public sector, the pressure on Community solutions, the reasons for the poverty of more people, issues such as the environment, food sovereignty, major issues such as justice and democracy. The effects of this agreement will interfere with the lives of each of us. But, above all, the agreement will have a decisive impact on the developing world, whether large parts of the world's population should have the same opportunity as rich countries have had to lift themselves out of poverty and marginalisation. I have noticed that in June this year the representative Petersen agreed that WTO issues need to be dealt with much more thoroughly in the Stortinget. I will challenge Secretary of State Petersen to say something about what the government will do to take the Storting on board. There were many reasons why the negotiations in Seattle were stranded. One of them was that the u-landa stood united in its criticism of the raw race from an undemocratic WTO system, and in its demands for the rich countries. Among other things, they ask that they have the same opportunities to develop their own industry and business as the rich country has had. Not one country has the power to develop justice and democracy for the large populations without the ability to protect its own resources and interests. An undemocratic WTO regime will be of primary benefit to transnational companies, but provide few opportunities for developing countries to take care of their own people, despite many fine words in the statement to take account of the developing countries in the negotiations. The 48 poorest countries have reacted sharply to the draft new negotiations. They are the result of India, whose trade minister has reacted sharply to the draft and sees it as a declaration of war. They oppose a new broad round of negotiations before the consequences of the old have been evaluated. There is great opposition to the introduction of new areas, such as services, investment, intellectual property and patents, under a more liberalised world trade. They require food sovereignty, i.e. the possibility of producing basic food locally for its own population. They require that the Uruguay Round be evaluated in view of how the distribution of wealth has evolved globally and affected the ability of countries to improve their living conditions, including the ability to feed their own population before new themes are introduced. Environmental and solidarity organisations here at home agree with this requirement. In Qatar, the u-land will be put under a tremendous pressure to surrender. It matters what Norway is doing because the WTO is based on the principle of consensus. Then our question to the Council of State is: What side is Norway going to take? SV challenges Norway to listen to its objections and evaluation requirements prior to the inclusion of new themes. The whole WTO system is fundamentally undemocratic by the fact that the main negotiations take place in the green spaces, which not everyone is allowed to attend. The 29 poorest countries do not even have the resources to participate in the work in Geneva. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk said after Seattle: ‘Trade negotiations involving 20 countries cannot continue, while the other 120 countries are on their way’. Our question will then be: what will the Government do to achieve more democratic and inclusive WTO preparation and decision-making procedures? Norway is pressing for the liberalisation of fish trade and for fish to be assessed as an industrial product. Other countries, including EU countries, will link general market access and resource access in the fisheries sector. This will destroy the resource base of many poor countries and will also pose a threat to Norwegian fisheries management. Norwegian fisheries policy has had objectives such as employment, housing, sustainable resource management and profitability. Is the Government committed to those objectives? Does the Government recognise the right of developing its own fisheries policy and the ability to manage its own food barrel? Or is it going to be free for powerful companies to subdue themselves to the resources? SV believes that after 11 September, it is important to look at whether the arrests are taking place, promoting justice, improving human rights and the environment and doing something about poverty in the world. What we, the rich countries, do must have legitimacy, especially among the poorest in the world. World trade needs rules of play, but the rules must primarily curb greedy market forces and be based on the interests of ordinary people, of the poor and of the environment. The WTO does not do that today. This can only be done if the WTO is placed under the UN and important UN agreements are taken over by trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e1990	I too will be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. Work in the WTO has become increasingly important. The number of countries that have now joined the WTO and the trade that the countries together represent gives a very good picture of it. It is also underlined by the speakers here today how important this matter is. Then I think it's a bit remarkable that this is so important, doesn't need a broader and more thorough discussion of the topic than what we're experiencing here in the hall right now. I think at all that it is quite sympathetic to the absence we have of thorough debate in the Great Britain about the social impact of the WTO on vital national interests. And in that context, let me also remind you that the round we had on June 1 wasn't a broad debate, but a brief statement, as we get today. We should have had a thorough debate in the Storting on these issues, because what is going on in the WTO now has and will have so crucial importance for Norwegian fisheries and agricultural policy, because it will affect our freedom of action in terms of the organisation of the public sector, welfare services, cultural policy, and because it touches entirely on central parts of our relationship with developing countries. With increasing importance, controversy has also become more closely linked to WTO negotiations. The aim of the Centre Party is that cooperation in the commercial field must contribute to a fairer international trade, with a high degree of predictability. The problem with the WTO remains that one focuses free trade as unilaterally as the organisation does. The focus will be "free trade" instead of "fair trade". This remains the fundamental problem of the entire WTO system. I also believe that the one-sidedness of the WTO towards liberalisation is one of the reasons for the strong reactions of WTO negotiations over the last few years. With a new and different starting point, the debate on international trade could have been more marked by dialogue than we have seen in recent years. The centre party is of the opinion that we should have met the demands of a number of developing countries that today's agreements and contract works be reviewed and evaluated before proceeding with a new round of negotiations. We believe that it would have been important precisely to contribute to a more sustainable and constructive future dialogue within the WTO Organisation. The negotiations that are taking place today would also serve to take a broader perspective. Some of the agricultural signals from the Minister for Foreign Affairs were positive, and they target the Minister for Foreign Affairs, among others. whether decentralised agricultural production and a varied structure of use are important objectives. But I must be allowed to remind the Minister that it means that a number of instruments and measures are being maintained, not least that one maintains import protection fully. As regards fisheries issues, the Centre Party considers that it is essential not only to focus on market access but also to ensure the future right to national resource management. On the one hand, considering fish as an industrial product can make us vulnerable to the availability of our own resources. That perspective is completely lacking in the small debate that is taking place around the WTO. We must also link our positions to the fisheries policy with the important traditions we have of a participating fleet through the participation law and the raw fish law. The Centre Party understands the scepticism shown by developing countries in relation to WTO negotiations on investment and competition rules. We consider it important that, in particular, countries that are in a build-up phase of their economy should have the opportunity to pursue a national industrial policy. And we also believe that it must be ensured that one within the service agreement can ensure the organisation of a public sector and its own welfare services. Another area that is also very important concerns the TRIPS Agreement. There I would like to be quite bastful and say that it is not enough that developing countries can essentially secure access to reasonable patented medicines. There must be an unconditional right for any country to ensure vital medicine and to ensure the health of its citizens. Here, the WTO may fail if they do not meet the unconditional requirement that has come from some developing countries. Unfortunately, the centre party does not see the present presentation as an adequate review of such an important matter as Norway's relationship with the WTO is. We believe that this matter concerns vital national interests, and should have been debated in a completely different and more thorough way than what we are given in the Stortingen today, and than what we have witnessed through the few posts that we have been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2013	It is true, as many people here have said, that a matter like this sparks a broad and thorough debate. But I think it's important to look at the situation we're in, that we've had a choice, that we've had a change of government, and that we've now got a deal before the Qatar meeting that was very important, and that gives us a response. In the situation we were, with the full support of the parliamentary leaders and the presidency of the model that was created, I thought it would be a little untimely to criticise today's distribution and what has happened so that you don't have enough time. But I agree with the representatives Arnstad and Valle who have said that we should take these matters more seriously, and that will also be the next opportunity. But I thought that the Foreign Minister in a broad and very good way distributed what was leading as Norway's dispositions. The background has collapsed in Seattle and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk's announcement on 20 December 1999 where he analysed the collapse and what progress we had to make. And there was a broad connection to the road that he outlined that Norway was going to go. So we got the statement from Foreign Minister Jagland in June, and I want to quote the main points from that statement, which is now in a good way carried on: ‘First, we support the work on making today’s driving rules more fair and predictable. We must avoid that Norway and other small countries are subjected to arbitrary and unilateral measures, such as protectionism and anti-dumping measures. Secondly, we want the trading system to continue to ensure an ever better and more varied supply of goods and services at favourable prices for consumers. Thirdly, we are committed to ensuring better market access for Norwegian exports. This applies to products such as fish, industrial and high-tech products, and to important service areas such as shipping, offshore, energy, engineering, environmental services, telecommunications and IT. Fifthly, we are concerned that WTO cooperation must reflect environmental considerations. We want the WTO's Sustainable Development Goal to be reflected in the mandate for the new negotiations. Last but not least, we are concerned that more needs to be done to safeguard the legitimate interests of developing countries, both in terms of market access, regulation and the transfer of competences. The objective must be for developing countries to benefit better’ from the international trading system, thus bringing about greater economic growth and poverty reduction. In my view, the Foreign Minister has in a good way worked out what was going on in both cases. And I think that even though there are many things that can be criticised, and that the broad debate is important, no one will lose more than exactly the poor and the developing countries if we don't get into goals this time. It is quite obvious that not everything will be good now either, but I am sure that the poor will become poorer if we do not reach the goal now. It has been a much more harmonious preparatory process in front of the WTO Qatar meeting than it was before the Seattle meeting. It suggests that there are less sharp confrontations, but there are also less sharp leads at some controversial points. There has been a good process home under the preparation of the Norwegian positions. It is therefore a line of continuity that characterizes the output from Vollebæk, Jagland and today Petersen. And there's reason to be glad that we're as few as we are. That being said, it is quite obvious that the turmoil we have seen through voluntary organisations, through some developing countries, is going to be serious. But unlike some people, I don't think that taking this seriously is kind of postponing the important decisions in Qatar. I believe, on the contrary, that it brings more poverty. The Christian People's Party can quite clearly stand behind the announcement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made here today, and wants the delegation to close down with the work in Qatar.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2039	The President would point out that it would be amazing if it were different.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2042	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement, and I am really pleased that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on the important objectives that lie in relation to the WTO in relation to the environment and justice of the Third World. There's a process where there's been relatively broad agreement between the parties here in the hall. It's important to remember that this is not a process that gives us ideals overnight, but where it's actually important to have focus on environment and justice to get where we want. However, we in the Left want to underline some points in relation to this WTO round. We are pleased that in Norway we have the main focus on developing countries’ needs — and in particular on LDCs — in relation to the agreement, and we are pleased that the Sem Declaration is also clear on its main focus on this. The left is also concerned that the next WTO round should be a green round. Environmental considerations must become a natural part of the legislation, and we are pleased that the Government wants to be a driving force in that respect. So to a point that is not mentioned in the debate earlier: we in the Left are concerned that it is important to work for as much transparency as possible around the WTO processes. It is easy to understand that it is not possible to have full transparency around processes where negotiations are involved, but it is important to strive to have the objective of full transparency that actually allows non-governmental organisations to have a constructive participation in the ongoing process. Then I will also go forward point seven of the Foreign Minister to develop multilateral rules for investment and competition. It is an important agreement and an important act for the future and a product of global society. Then, as the representative of Stoltenberg, I will draw up patent rules on medicines. The knowledge of HIV and AIDS has probably increased considerably, at least in most people, after the TV action. That aspect clearly demonstrates the importance of such agreements to ensure cohesion, to ensure justice and also to save lives. There's an important problem The government here is going to do, and I want happiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2062	Today we have received a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the negotiations to be held in Qatar, and I am so grateful for that. We are in a situation where the world economy and trade seem to be too downward, so trade and relations agreements between the different nations are important. In this way, I can basically say I am satisfied with what the Foreign Minister here has mentioned. I see that he has put a lot of emphasis on this by securing anti-dumping and reducing the problems that anti-dumping has caused for the fishing industry. The fishing industry depends on a transport market and, to a large extent, on free trade. In most cases, fish products have been a balancing item when international negotiations have taken place, so I am pleased that it has now been properly put on the agenda. What I'm a little bit more concerned about is what has been said about multinational rules for investment and competition. There I have to draw attention to the MAI agreement, which was ready for signing at the time the last Bondevik government was on the track. Because, fortunately, it was protested in Canada and France, that agreement was not signed. It was put on ice after that. It now appears in a different form in the WTO. What I thought was most worrying about that agreement was the right to invest in a country in accordance with the so-called best-principle, which is that a multinational company investing in a country should have better conditions than national companies. They shall be non-discriminatory and shall be exempt from special laws in the field of both environment and labour, and, of course, from a number of other national laws. That's what was in the MAI agreement that, fortunately, was not adopted. I would like to draw your attention to precisely these points if they come up as a topic during the Qatar negotiations. Of course, what is available here in the case of investment and competition agreements for multinational companies is not adopted. But it is clear that there will be a negotiation protocol, and I ask the Foreign Minister in particular to pay attention to this: we are a major force in the world in the field of natural resources, and we are a major force in the field of food. We have fishing resources that we control up in the Barents Sea, so we can call ourselves the World Food Chamber for certain fish species. It's clear that as development is now with the sale of concessions, new laws that are passed in this house, and changes in ownership structure, there's nothing wrong with us having multinational companies in a few years that go in and take over our natural resources. And if you have adopted and entered into international agreements that go beyond national rules, we're out on wild roads. That is why I ask you to focus your attention on these very things when we are now negotiating a revised MAI agreement. It is not for nothing that the NGOs and developing countries make trouble, as they did in Seattle. Clearly, those who run the world economy are interested in making more money. You don't invest to lose money. Clearly, they want to have control of what is the basis of all prosperity. And whoever controls the food resources in the world controls the world economy. That is why I am correcting a index finger and I warn you that the negotiation protocol that is signed after the meeting in Qatar will be checked and examined. And if you haven't done your job, I promise you there will be more trouble in Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2077	I guess you're gonna have to take things straight away.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2080	I am not a moment in doubt that the Storting will follow closely in the negotiations that are about to take place. But one thing at a time. What's important now is that we have safe ground under our feet when we go to Qatar, because there's now a sufficiently clear majority in the Great Britain that stands behind this arrangement. I also understand that it is a strong desire to get a result. And it is quite crucial in today's situation, I think, that the 142 countries really reach a platform for further negotiations. It's not like you're going to end up in Qatar in some way. It's simply a basis for moving forward that's to be created down there. Now I understand very well the many who had wanted a broader debate. I would also like to have that in the sense that I believe this is a good offensive case. I think it's very important that we get a more open world trade with clear driving rules. I think both the developed countries and the developing countries deserve this. And that's why I want so many debates I can get on this topic, because this is a good offensive case. However, when we have asked for this form, it is because the negotiations are coming very soon after the government change, and in addition, what this government is doing is based on what the then opposition representatives said in the Stortingen last time the matter was under consideration, and which was a connection to the arrangement of the then government. The positions are the same if the positions have turned around. It says there's a wide majority here. I record that there is also much more fundamental criticism of the scheme itself, especially from the SVs, but also from the Central Party, but it does not say that there is no clear majority behind the scheme that exists. I totally disagree that the approach adopted by both the SV and the Central Party will strengthen both the developing countries and world trade. I disagree with that, but we should be able to organise a larger and more comprehensive debate. And there is no doubt that if you are going to try to express strong foreign interest while expressing a strong desire to protect Norwegian agriculture, you are inside the debated c-moments that I think it is a little difficult to get – at least very elegant! It is of the dilemmas we must be prepared for a nine-time discussion of during the negotiations. And the government will be very interested in keeping in touch, not least with the organs of the Storing. Often, many balances depend on the knowledge of texts, which I often missed in my former business as a wholesaler, in order to take a proper position, so I understand that need. But it's clear that the government wants to play against Stortinget as best we can, so that we can pull this load together. Some difficult balances need to be made, not least balances between foreign interests and other interests are difficult. That is why I am so glad that so many people have underlined the foreign interests in this. They're going to be very careful with the government. They produce results other than what anyone thinks they are giving, but innovation is needed in integrating the developing countries into the international, global economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2095	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on WTO issues prior to the Qatar Ministerial Conference be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-11-07.ana.ud2091e2108	There is no record.
