ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e44	The representatives Trond Helleland and Børge Burnde, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e55	On behalf of Øyvind Korsberg, Thore Aksel Nistad and myself, I would like to suggest that amendments to the regulation on the tax classification of the van class 2 are not implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e72	On 18 December 2000, the Stortinget – after an oral vote by the Presidency – decided to amend Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure so that each representative can ask only one question in an ordinary Question Time. The amendment was put into effect until the end of March this year. At the same time, it was decided that the same interlocutors used during the oral question procedure should also be used during the ordinary Question Time. The background for the changes was that during half of the ordinary Question Time in the autumn 2000 it had been necessary to reduce the number of follow-up questions to one in order for the agenda items to be closed during the regulatory time of the morning. No change was made to the provision in the second paragraph of Section 52 that each representative can ask two questions a week, either for written answers or in the ordinary questioning procedure. Experience from the trial period is positive in the view of the Presidency. The duration of the ordinary Questionnaire has decreased, both as a result of fewer questions and as a result of time savings in the use of the floor chairs. In addition to the Questionnaire, there has been time for an interview in the morning. A unanimous presidency therefore proposes that the temporary amendment of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure be made. The third sentence, adopted by the Stortinget on 18 December 2000, is made permanent.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e83	As one of those who use the Question Time, I would have liked to see us go back to the system that was crazy before Christmas. I understand that there is a broad agreement that this should not happen, and I bend for it. But I have a comment in relation to the cases where the Council of State has gone away and the question submitted, and where, for that reason, naturally, the question is transferred to the next question hour. I would like to ask the President to consider whether the legislation can be such that each representative has the possibility to submit one question each week, and that one has the possibility to address both a new question and what may be left over from the previous question time. It would have been a more liberal practice, but it would also be primarily about the possibility that each representative should have to ask one question in each question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e90	I do not immediately see that it is so easy to make the change that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa proposed here. But what might be considered is about a question that has been sent to the ordinary Questionnaire, and which it turns out that the Council of State does not have the opportunity to answer because he has gone away, could be converted into a written question, because you have the opportunity to ask both a written question and a question in the ordinary Questionnaire in the course of a week. By possibly turning this into a written question, the quota was kept – if you think so – with two questions a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e95	I think that the question that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa raises is a perfectly reasonable question to address when a representative has a quota of two questions per. week. What is a problem is that sometimes there will be a need to ask more questions when there are many things that are on your mind. And when some government councils don't meet here in several weeks – as we've seen trends – it actually means being blocked from addressing new questions for up to several weeks. I think this should be practiced in accordance with the guidelines outlined by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, and I think the Presidency should discuss this again. The fact that, due to the absence of the Council of State, two questions are asked from the same questioner in a given Question Time, I cannot believe that it is so terribly difficult to find a practical solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e102	Of course, if there is a question and a requirement, the Presidency will assess this solution. But as I outlined, it is also possible to convert this regular question-time question into a written question, so that you can get a written answer to it. That way, there will be no blocking for the next Question Time, and you will get an answer even if the Council of State is away, because every week you have the opportunity to ask two questions. But, of course, we should like to explore the possibility that Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa is asking for. There's no problem for the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e107	Let me first stress that I believe it is a very timely question that has been raised by both Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and by Erna Solberg. The President says this should be assessed in the Presidency. I believe that it is more natural to discuss this issue in consultation with the Group leaders of the United Kingdom, who have regular meetings with the President and representatives of the Presidency. I would just like to suggest that this is a subject which, in my opinion, belongs primarily to a meeting with the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e114	Now I think maybe you make this question a bigger problem than it is. The rule is that state councils should meet in the Questionnaire. The second rule is that if a Council of State does not have the opportunity to answer a question, a Council of State may meet instead. The problem that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa raised, that in question hours after asking hours you do not get answers to their questions, I don't think it is very topical, and it hardly occurs very often. But the Presidency will of course look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e122	The main reason for the change that a currently proposes to make permanent is that representatives should be able to ask two follow-up questions. Those who have followed in the winter hours have seen that the use has varied. It has often been an interpellation within the ordinary agenda. For my part, I want to say that there is a very big difference between having the opportunity to ask follow-up questions and asking a written question. I'm glad the president now says she'll evaluate this more closely, and I argued that it'll be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 2543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e143	I would like to provide some new information regarding the progress of the treatment of St.prp. No 53 on the extension of the cost framework for new warehouse in Tromsø. The proposal for an extension of the cost framework was made on the basis of estimates by State Building. The calculations were based on the tenders received before Christmas, adjusted for the changes resulting from the subsequent critical review of the project. At the end of the new tendering period a few days ago, it turned out that only one new tender was submitted. This offer is high above what has been taken into account in the proposal for a revised cost framework. State buildings believe that the existing offer is far too high for it to be accepted. Acceptance of this price level could also have adverse consequences for later construction projects in Tromsø. State buildings are already in the process of making contact with the contractors concerned in order to obtain a building project based on a propulsion adapted to the contractor’s capacity and resources. This means that State Building believes that it is possible to implement the project within the proposed cost framework, but that progress needs to be adjusted. It is therefore likely that it will not be possible to get to a construction start already in May, as originally planned. In this context, the Ministry of Justice will place great emphasis on actively following up the project and making it possible to ensure the continuity of the project, in accordance with the request of the Judicial Committee and previously stated assumptions. I therefore continue to ask the Stortinget to decide that the cost framework for a new warehouse in Tromsø is set at 154.7 million. kr per. On 1 July 2001, including artistic decoration, and note that the completion of the property building in Tromsø may be a little later than expected. I want to brief the Storting when the drive is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e158	Since this matter has been on the political agenda for so long, it is right to say that the Judicial Committee was very pleased with the proposal to extend the cost framework, so that the construction of a new warehouse in Tromsø could start as planned. The information provided by the Council of State complicates this image a little. I think it's right to say that I think the committee agrees that one now starts with the basis and the cost framework that is being adopted here today. Then, if necessary, the Council of State will have to come back to the Storting with proposals for additional appropriations – but of course not at all costs. What is important here is that the drive is still a very high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e183	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e192	‘There are far more than purely traffic-related assessments underpinning the choice of the Right when we have decided to build a tunnel.’The Christian People’s Party considered that it is both important and natural to ensure the implementation of perhaps the most important environmental project, simply to place railway traffic in a tunnel through the Old Town.’ And the decision we are making today is that the Storting determines that through the Old Town railway tunnel must be built. Pointum!’ ‘We in the Centre Party will take seriously what the Residents’ Association and people who live in this area present as arguments for just the tunnel and not other solutions.’ Those who have read the committee setting today realize that these four quotes are not picked up from there. No, the first quote was from Right Ole Johs. Brunæs in Stortinget on 15 June 1995, the second from the Valgerd Svarstad of the Christian People's Party and the third from Carl I. Hagen in the same debate. The last quote was from the Senterpartiet Magnus Stangeland in Stortinget on April 24, 1997. It was then and "look" now! No, today the yom pipe has got a different song, and I want to add: thank you and the price for it! Today, everyone – I’ll almost say a total staggering – understands that this project has never been realistic. SV and Left do a few small last spasms and participate almost without reservation in the large funeral of the Old Town Tunnel in which the rest of the day participates. Today, the Storting is concerned with the enormous costs of such a tunnel, of the major disadvantages that a tunnel construction would have caused for the train traffic during the construction period and of the significant negative consequences a tunnel would have for protected cultural memories. There were some who tried to make these arguments in 1997, but then they did not hear very much. Tunnel was to be built, cost what it would cost! In line with the Storting decision at that time, the Government has identified a total of eight different trajectory options. A comprehensive investigation work has been carried out at a cost of several tens of millions of Norwegian kroner. Imagine if someone had spent this money building a pedestrian and bicycle road or for racial protection instead! I'm not going to rattle any more about the history of the Old Town Tunnel, but it was good to be told. We can read more about the history of today's committee setting, which almost has to be calculated for an informative necrolog. It is established that the state should contribute to improving living conditions both in the Old Town and in other parts of Oslo in the Middle East. In the Old Town, it's used so far over 120 million. kr on noise measures, and more so. Also on the route to Bryn station, measures will now be taken to improve the living environment. These may be measures to improve rail equivalency, in order to mitigate vibrations and thus to reduce noise, the use of so-called noise-absorbing mats and the continued noise-absorbing of dwellings, to mention something. The state has a responsibility to clean up this part of our capital. The state has spent a lot of money in the area, and it has to be more. But spending NOK 3-5 billion, maybe more, on a railway tunnel, had not been in any kind of relation to what one would have achieved with such an investment. For my own part, I will also raise my eyes a few hundred meters and point to the importance of getting the Bjørvika tunnel built, as the bulk of the population has done several times. Getting rid of car traffic from this part of Oslo will be a much better handshake for the old Oslo. I repeat once again: the state has a responsibility to clean up the Oslo inner east, but building the Old Town Tunnel is not the solution. I would also like to point out that the bulk of the population now says that when planning the new double track between Oslo and Ski and the so-called Folloport, one will consider whether it is possible to put a new freight trail outside the Old Town. Then there had been both reason and realism in the project, and much had been done if one had lost the freight in the area. The Norway championship in building the Old Town Tunnel is now definitely over. There has not been any way in the promises made to the people of Old Town for the last six years that tunnel construction would take place. It was about doing the best possible for the Old Town Tunnel. Actually, it's pretty serious. I certainly believe some people – even here in the house – have sincerely believed that it was right to build the tunnel. But I'm absolutely sure that the vast majority of people in the innermost part of the world have always known that there would never be a tunnel. It was e.g. not very convincing, as the national meeting in one – to say – this party went mangard in the area a few years ago – people who have never before or since put their legs in the area. I mentioned the debate in Stortinget on 24 April 1997. Carl I. Hagen said in that debate: ‘I believe this matter of tunnel through the Old Town is going to be the curriculum of stateviters sometime in the future. The various phases of this matter will be worth a considerable study in the future.’ That's what Carl I. Hagen said. You world, that's well said! And it'll be better after today's debate and today's vote. Not least the Progress Party is contributing to this, as they do not have a single own committee comment on the Old Town Tunnel in their present setting. Yes, the matter is worth a considerable study, there is no doubt about it. Let me finally say a few words about the Ringerix track, which is mentioned in the same proposition. In the autumn of 1996, the Storting decided to investigate two different trasé corridors for the Ringeriks Railway. This work is in the final phase – we can probably say today that it is now finished. The government has announced that during the spring it will file a case on the draft elections for the Storting. I expect that we can and will certainly take a much larger debate on the Ringeriksbanen there. Nevertheless, I would like to refer today from the Labour Party to the treatment of the National Transport Plan for a short time. The working party went in there to spend 100 million. kr in the last part of the design planning period for the Ringerix Railway. We are seasily basing this on our further work on the matter, but first we have to get back to the final trasé election a little further out in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e250	The Proposition refers to two major railway projects — the Old Town Tunnel and the Ringeriks Railway, which are also very much concerned with the tunnel. Six years ago, in 1995, a number of parties promised that the railway through the Old Town would be put in the tunnel, as we have heard the representative Myrli say a little about today. A majority in the Grand Duchy also took a decision on that occasion. In 1997, the majority was even wider, and the Labour Party was also involved. I'll quote from Innst. S. No 155 for 1996-1997, where the Committee – i.e. the entire Committee – inter alia: put forward the following proposal: ‘1. Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 15 June 1995 on the location of railway traffic in Old Town in tunnels.» The Labour Party was there, as I said, but of course that year it was also a campaign. After that time much water has clean in the sea. And the water that usually finds the way to the sea is not the problem in this context either. The problem in this context is the water that does not run into the sea – at least not the way it should run – namely, the water that has cleaned through the sport of Rome. Of course, it's possible to hare us politicians, and we also do it over ourselves sometimes. This is also done in connection with this case. Some criticise us for going away from the promise of laying the railway in the tunnel, but many are more concerned that the promise was given at all. I'm not going to go into that any further. However, there are some important elements that you should take with you. First of all, we've learned a lot about building tunnels in just this part of Oslo. The mountain is not as solid as one would like. In fact, the experience with sentence injuries after the Roman sport has shown that neither does the one who builds his house on the mountain can be completely safe. The problems with Rome's sport, and not least the experience we have gained about the cost of building tunnels in such mountains, are important for the Christian People's Party's assessment. Significant noise protection measures have been implemented along the existing railway line in Gamlebyen. Still, it is not good enough for the residents there. And we will implement measures to further reduce the noise problems for residents along the railway, as well as that new freight tracks outside the Old Town should be considered in the further planning of the Folloport. The construction of tunnels in this area would pose major operational problems for railway operation during the construction phase over several years, both in terms of capacity and regularity, and with a high risk of transition from train to car. Furthermore, it is important for us to take into account the protective cultural memories that will be affected by the construction of the tunnel. With the price tag presented by the Government in the proposition, we have not found it right to recommend any other conclusion than to join the proposal that the railway tunnel is not built through the Old Town in Oslo. In addition, it is also relevant that a broad majority of the Stortinget have joined other major rail projects in the Oslo area, with double tracks on the Skøyen-Asker and Oslo S-Ski routes. When we from the Christian People's Party went into the tunnel in 1997, our assumption was that it would not go beyond the railway budget. Int. S. No 178 for 1994-95, the majority, the members of the Central Party, Right, SV and the Christian People's Party stated: ‘The majority would point out that, on the basis of the fact that this project is for the purposes of the urban district and Oslo as a city, and not for the purposes of the NSB as a transport operator, funding may not be drawn from the budgets of the NSB.’ So it was an urban development project more than a measure to increase the capacity of the railway network. With the price tag of NOK 3-5 billion that we have now been presented for the railway tunnel, we do not see it possible to implement this project. Like the Railway Agency and the majority of the Committee, we cannot see that the costs are proportionate to what is achieved by tunnels. So to the Ringerix course, which is also mentioned in the proposition. It is not easy to see why this topic, this project, is presented in this context. The government’s view was reflected in the national transport plan, where there was no funding for the project. That was the majority of the Stortinget in agreement with, despite the fact that the Workers' Party did not follow its own government's priorities. The proposition goes on to point out that there will be a separate case of trasé selection in the spring, when the municipalities have come further in their planning processes. In this way, we would like to wait until this matter was submitted to Stortinget. But when the government has nevertheless found it necessary to mention the Ringerix Railway in this proposition, we have repeated from the Christian People's Party the priority we have expressed in the National Transport Plan. This means that during the next decade there will be no room for large investments in the Ringerix Railway. This does not mean that we have said no to the project, but that we have prioritised, and we therefore agree with the government's proposal that the Ringeriksbane should not be given priority during the 2002-2011 planning period. If the project is to turn out to be much cheaper than we have reason to expect, if the conflicts in relation to natural interventions are less than one fears locally, or if the bulk of the population is going to have to spend far more money on investments in railway infrastructure, it may of course be relevant to reconsider this. We will have this opportunity when the Stortinge in 2004 will deal with the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e292	That's right, as the representative Myrli was in – there's no problem admitting it – we've dealt with this matter twice earlier here in Stortinget, on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals in 1995 and later in 1997, and both of them have been given a signal that they wanted to identify the consequences, the trajectories and what the costs would be for this. That's right. So you have come into the situation that you have a project that costs between 3 and 5 billion kroner, and then you have to make a decision whether to implement it or not. Then it becomes a little special when the representative Myrli rises to the big heights and criticises us. The representative Myrli may not have forgotten what his party has cost the Norwegian state in the case of the Gardermoban. It's also a bill that's been paid at this time. And when the representative Myrli says ‘cost what it will’, you should listen carefully, because there were actually some who also warned against that project along the way. But OK: The project was started, the project had to be completed, the money had to be found. There are many things that have happened during this period, and then the bill is there. But you know what we've experienced about Norwegian railway in the last few years! We all know that. Which one of us was able to predict it when we last treated the Old Town Tunnel? No one! No one should come and tell me that they knew it. Then we have come to you that we must first of all report on the Norwegian railway system. First of all, we have to start repairing, repairing what we have, so that the Railway Authority can update the railway and say that it is safe to drive now. That's why I've said on behalf of my party that a lot of these heavy projects, which are investment projects -- that's the Old Town Tunnel, that's the Ringeriks Tunnel, and that's in and on the Eidanger Tunnel, too -- I don't see any possibility of financing within this period, and then I say it right. I'll keep that up, and I'll keep it to the right. Of course, there are some people in the Old Town who have wanted and perhaps thought that this should be done. And I think, in fact, that a lot of people in 1995 and 1997 thought that this should be put in place. But something has happened along the way that has done this more than difficult. That's the starting point, and then there's an old saying in politics that when realities change, you change your perception. What does the representative Myrli do? My point is this: we're where we are. We've said that now we can't do this. Then we evaluate this with the freight track that goes back, and look at it. We have also said that in the case of the Ringerik tunnel, we do not find any money for it within this planning period. We have some tracks lying all over Westfold without a railway on which we're going to get ready, tracks that have been lying there for a year and a half, and people are wondering what we're doing in this country. It looks like an autostrada down there. People ask. You ask me, should we put the railways on those tracks, take advantage of the investments we've made, before we start other projects. And then I'd like to admit – I don't have any problems with it – that in retrospect we might see that the situation for Norwegian railway was far more serious than we saw, in 1995 and 1997. But I realize that when we get to May, the situation will be further exacerbated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e303	The impact assessment for railway tunnels in the Old Town of Oslo shows that all options will lead to some major interventions in the area. Several of the solutions are technically very complex, with a high risk of additional damage to the protected cultural memories in the area around the Memory Park. The socio-economic calculations also show that construction costs are very high and that all options are socio-economically very unprofitable. The railway works consider that the environmental improvements achieved along existing tracks are not proportionate to the costs and other consequences of the project and that it is not appropriate to make such investments for this purpose. Nor can the Ministry of Transport recommend the development of any of the alternatives identified. It is important that the State helps to improve living conditions both in the Old Town and in other parts of Oslo in the inner East, and the Progress Party will therefore join in the proposal that railway measures be planned to improve the living environment in the Old Town and on the route towards Bryn station. The total construction costs of a tunnel through the Old Town are estimated at DKK 3-5 billion, and that is a significant amount. Although there is a significant number of dwellings exposed to noise in the area, the costs do not correspond to what a tunnel will achieve. On this basis, the Progress Party agrees with the Committee's position that railway tunnels are not being built through the Old Town of Oslo. The Progress Party also shows that the costs of the project are now significantly higher than the cost estimates that existed when the Stortinget dealt with St. prp. No 33 for 1996–97. So a little bit about the Ringerix track. In the autumn of 1996, the Storting decided that two different trasé corridors for the Ringerix Railway should be explored. It was Sandvika–Kroksund–Hønefoss and Sandvika–Åsa–Hønefoss. The Party is aware that extensive investigation work has been carried out, that the impact assessment of the alternatives investigated has now been approved, and that there is a basis for the local treatment of the main choice of the municipalities concerned in Bærum, Hole and Ringerijk. The Ministry suggests that a case of cross-border elections will be submitted to Stortinget after a decision has been taken in the municipalities concerned, and the case has been resolved at the Railway Agency. According to the proposition, this can be done during the spring. The Progress Party agrees with the Government’s proposal that the Ringeriksbane should not be given priority during the 2002-2011 planning period, and therefore does not see the need to take a position on the trasé elections 10 years in advance, to which it is proposed. The cost of the project is between DKK 3.2 and 4.4 billion, depending on the main trajectory and the solution variants. What costs will be after 2011 is impossible to predict. Therefore, we do not want it to be prioritised after this period without the existing railway network being repaired in terms of safety and the rehabilitation of dangerous level crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e320	As several speakers before me have spoken, the Old Town Tunnel has been discussed in Stortinget several times before. Sverre Myrli, in his speech at the beginning of this debate, has been delighted to tell this story in its own way and in capital letters. However, it is worth noting that today we are dealing with a proposition that deals with a new impact assessment in September 1998 and a further issue in December 1999. These are the results of Stortinget's decision at the Innst. S. No 155 for 1996–97. So it was the Stortinget that asked for a closer assessment of different options. In St. prp. No 41 have given us a better basis than before to assess the Gamleby Tunnel project. The eight options mentioned in St.prp. No 41, have been assessed in terms of cost, technical complexity of intervention in the area with regard to protected cultural memory and operational problems during the construction period. It's quite clear that the lesson from Rome's sports is that, among other things. must focus on technical challenges in planning. The costs we have now received for the Old Town Tunnel are well above the costs that have been used for the previous management of this project. Socio-economic calculations show that construction costs are very high and that none of the options presented are socio-economically viable. In the Central Party, we have therefore, after an overall assessment, found that we want to join the setting that the railway tunnel should not be built through the Old Town in Oslo. That being said, it is also important to stress that instead of building the Old Town Tunnel, work must be started on planning other measures to improve the urban environment in the Old Town and the urban environment along the route towards Bryn station. Of course, I am aware that extensive measures have already been implemented along the existing railway line in Gamlebyen. But as it is also pointed out in St. pp. No 41, there are several measures that can and should be implemented. Therefore, I fully conclude that new measures should be planned and implemented in addition to those already implemented. St. pp. No 41 also contains a review of the Ringerix Railway. This project was also mentioned in the National Transport Plan 2002–2011, which we debated in Stortinget as late as February. In the Central Party, we fully agree with the Government's proposal in the National Transport Plan, that the Ringerix Railway should not be a priority during the 2002-2011 planning period, and the Centre Party therefore sees no reason to set up planning funds in that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e333	The decision to build a tunnel for trains through the Old Town was made in a moment's glowing commitment to the Storting to raise the standard of living of people living in neglected streets of the capital. The parties competed for who could promise the most for Oslo in the inner East. In practice, we have seen that train tunnels are able to cope with major technical problems through months of trouble in Eastern Europe, and we have seen on paper that the technical challenges associated with the construction of the Old Town Tunnel are also great. There have been some events in the years since the first round in Stortinget. The price has increased significantly. And it seems that there is only one of the investigated alternatives that are current, i.e. II Loenga, that can be implemented without significant consequences for, among other things. past memories and sheltered buildings. II Loenga is also the option which has at least negative consequences for the closure of railway traffic during the construction period. Despite this, it is regrettable that the majority of the committee now chooses a complete burial of the proposal for a train tunnel in the Old Town. After the Gardermobanen was opened in 1998, the train traffic has increased from approx. 300 to nearly 600 trains per train 24 hours out of Oslo Centre. Without better solutions for train traffic, a large number of residents will live with noise and vibration problems, and the city will miss the opportunity to achieve a desired urban development in this part of the city. The majority of the Committee points out that the costs of building the Old Town Tunnel are not proportionate to what one will achieve. It is true if a mere assumption is that noise abatement for a limited number of residents is all a achiever. But the benefits of the Old Town Tunnel must be seen in a broader urban development context. How this part of the capital can be developed and opened for uses other than train traffic is affecting many more than those affected by noise. There is a major effort to develop the Bjørvika area in Oslo, both in terms of urban development and infrastructure. This area of Oslo can be an attraction for the whole country if the Stortinget will help make the necessary promises. Opera in Bjørvika is a good start. The Medieval Museum of Sørenga will be a natural continuation. This is an important national cultural promise that can give people in Norway a more experienced capital. With a new town in Bjørvika, the railway barrier through the Old Town will become more noticeable than today. Building the Old Town Tunnel has proved to be a far more difficult project than many of us thought when a majority in this hall decided to make this promise for Oslo's inner east in 1995. We see that there are good arguments that speak against the construction of a train tunnel in Old Town. It's expensive, and it's difficult, but it's established that it's not impossible. SV is not ready to always state the vision of an old town with less traffic and noise and to remove the barrier that the railway is today. The people of Old Town have reason to feel cheated over previous decisions in the Stortinget. But luckily, positive things have also happened to the environment in this part of town in the last few years. It's spent 120 million. These measures have been effective in reducing environmental handicaps in the Old Town. It is also useful for the Committee to stress that new measures will be implemented in the future in order to reduce environmental pollution in this part of the city. The priority of environmental measures in the Old Town must also be seen in the context of environmental tasks calling for solutions in other urban areas, particularly in the Groruddalen. We believe that with the promises made by the Stortinget, the residents of the Old Town deserve at least that the Stortinget remains open that the Old Town can later be reviewed and examined further as an environmental and urban development measure. But it also means that we can find acceptable funding, that significant urban development funds are raised, and that the municipality accepts to contribute. The SV and the Left are promoting proposals to further examine funding opportunities. It is also important that the possible future realisation of the train tunnel is done in the most gentle manner in relation to past memories, protected buildings and public transport in the Oslo area. I would like to include the proposal from the SV and the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e359	Lisbet Ruggtvedt has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e362	I will at the beginning of the post choose to interrogate the representative Myrli, but will come back to him a little later. First to the Old Town. When a large majority entered the railway tunnel in Old Town, there was no need to hide that there was a large majority who chose to go in for a bet, but in an urban development perspective, no doubt about it. This is not an important measure in railway terms, although the increase to Bryn is not entirely insignificant in railway operations. When the Left now also agrees that this is not a current measure in the planning period up to 2011, it is firstly because there is no money, and secondly, that any experience with the measures that have been put forward has shown that they have been more expensive than what you thought or hoped. Whatever it was, they became more expensive. And then it's a quite natural consequence that there's no room for this action now. It is in addition, because there should be no doubt about the willingness to conduct completely independent investigations, spent quite a lot of money on it. Many may think much about it, but one of the reasons why it happened and was necessary was that there was a lack of trust between large parts that the Storting and the local population compared to part of the investigations, so that this had to be done properly. Then it's done, and numbers have come on the table, and it's right as the representative Ruggedt said, that the only option that is seriously behind is Loenga II. When the Left agrees with the SV on a proposal, it is because in the context of urban development in Oslo, there was actually no one who five years ago could dream that the Committee on Transport, in a comment on the development of ports in Oslo, would write back what they did a short time ago. It was actually completely unmistakable. It was almost so unimaginable that it was not even conceivable a year ago. Furthermore, it was not entirely conceivable that, in its time, action should be taken which, being creative as well as finding different sources of funding, would lead to urban development in Bjørvika, which is definitely not a classical tribal road project, but which is a cooperation between building roads and driving urban development, and where other sources of funding have to be heavily involved. Nor was it anyone who at that time could predict that there was actually a significant minority in the Storting that would drive a OPS project on the Mosseweg, and who was also willing to participate in the project, within the framework of the transport contract in Oslo. And there was probably no one in this room who predicted that the NHO in Oslo and Akershus would go in and demand an extension of traffic charges in Oslo and Akershus, as they have now done. All of this was not to be seen in the political crystal sphere. But in the realistic crystal ball, where you look at people and say that I have no money, what do you want to contribute, people get reality-oriented everywhere. And it's based on such a reality orientation that the Left won't be part of any project in the Old Town. That is why we have agreed to link Loenga II to the situation that has not been resolved before 2011 but that will come later, and have promoted the proposal that the representative Mr Rangtvedt has addressed. I think it's quite right to have such an opening, especially if you're willing to think untraditionally about funding, so it gives you a reason. And with respect for people in other parts of the country – think of these people who have fought for Lofast! It's not the most annoying amount of traffic per person. days rolling there, but some have maintained a perspective that was important for the region and have been given ‘chlorinated’ it in targets. This kind of understanding, even in other parts of the country, should be understood. When the ability to carry is present locally in other areas, an urban community such as Oslo should also be able to face a challenge regarding the situation in the Old Town after the settlement of Bjørvika, after the fjord city has been realised, and the Mossewege has been put in place. So short about the Ringerix track, which is mentioned here. The left has not previously been involved in planning up to 201l, because the Left in the setting of the National Transport Plan gave priority to a different prioritisation and upgrading of the Bergensbahn, especially linked to Ulrikstunnel. It's also about putting power on the work on Bergensbanen, because it's an important transport year. That priority is ahead of the Ringerix Railway during the planning period. But the left is prepared to come back to that question after 2011. And then to the representative Myrli. It says a certain place that it throws stones that have never sat in a glass house itself, and more I won't say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e383	The plans for a new high-speed rail link between Oslo and the new main aerodrome with Gardermobanen/Romeriksporten just north of Suburb in Gamlebyen were the background for Stortinget to decide in the summer of 1995 that railway traffic in Gamlebyen should be put in the tunnel. In the Gardermoban planning basis, it was estimated that the opening of the Gardermobanen in the autumn of 1998 would result in an approximate doubling of the train traffic on the route between Oslo S and Etterstad, while the main route further northwards in Groruddalen and towards Lillestrøm would be reduced. Requirements of the State in relation to the approval of the Gardermobanen regulatory plan provided the basis for the implementation of comprehensive remedial noise measures on the route up to Suburb in parallel with the extension of the Gardermobanen. Noise shields, façade insulation and measures in the dwellings themselves for about 120 million. kr has been implemented to reduce the disadvantages of the increased train traffic through the area. The indoor noise level is satisfactory for all dwellings according to recommended limit values on the route up to Suburb and residents have access to open-air areas with acceptable railway noise. The measures have contributed to a significant reduction in environmental problems in the Old Town, but with the high volume of train traffic and night freight traffic there are still environmental problems in the area. The impact study comprises a total of eight different options based on two trasé corridors in the so-called south corridor under the decision of the Storting and also a corridor across Loenga, south of the Old Town. Three of the solutions still involve train traffic through the Old Town, while for the other options all train traffic has been changed. A possible new freight track on the Oslo S-Bryn route has been taken into account in all solutions. All alternatives are very comprehensive and technically complex. The need for a comprehensive reconstruction of parts of Oslo S, the proximity to the protected cultural memories in Bispeborgen and Ladegangen and the other medieval survivors in the Memory Park area and, in general, very difficult basic conditions make the development costs very high. Due to the fact that one cannot be sure to avoid further damage to the sentence on the protected cultural memories, the Riksantikvaren has objected to all alternatives except those based on a trajectory over Loenga. All solutions require, in part, extensive archaeological excavations. The construction period has been estimated at between 6 and 11 years with some major conflicts associated with existing railway installations with varying degrees of operational problems for 3 to 8 years. The investigation shows that it is technically possible to carry out a conversion of the railway in the Old Town. All alternatives will naturally lead to environmental improvements for the living environment in the area. Regardless of assumptions and potential improvements, the conversion of the railway will require large investments that are intended to lie from approximately NOK 2.9 billion to NOK 4.7 billion. Although one has not been able to price all the benefits of the project, the overall benefits of all the options are very low, so that all solutions appear to be of considerable negative value. The facility does not provide any real improvement for rail traffic except for new freight tracks on the Oslo S-Bryn route, which improves the gradient of freight trains. The consultation shows that, apart from the stakeholder organisations in the area, no one considers it appropriate to give priority to the implementation of the Old Town project at the expense of other major and priority transport projects in the Oslo area. Taking into account the measures implemented in recent years in the Old Town, and the significant resources required to convert the railway in the Old Town, I believe that the costs of such development are not proportionate to what is achieved by improvements in the housing environment and land development in the Old Town. This applies to all alternatives investigated. The aim is to identify measures so that living conditions in the area can be further improved in such a way that all dwellings have noise and vibration conditions that meet current standards. Possible measures may include structural noise reduction mats during the running of the rail, vibration mitigation measures, assessment of railway evenness and, where appropriate, reduced speed of trains through the area. The railway works have announced the launch of an impact assessment for new double tracks on the Oslo S-Hauketo route, and the plans for a new freight track up to Bryn will be included in this work. I have noted the proposal by the Socialist Left and Left in the vote to examine the possibility of road pricing in Oslo, and whether the value of the properties released can be included as a financing basis for laying the Old Town tracks in tunnels in connection with new double-track Oslo S-Ski in the next transport planning period. As a general consideration, I would like to make it clear here that there are already several proposed projects in Oslopacket 2 that are not secured funding for the next decade. Such a priority would therefore have to be at the expense of other priority actions in the Oslo area. As far as the Ringerix Railway is concerned, I have taken note of the Committee's opinions. I take as well-known the aim of coming back to Stortinget with a message later in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e415	It was tempting earlier today to have an article that made up a little bit for a debate with the case rapporteur, but I think the case rapporteur and I can take it somewhere else. I believe that what has been presented today, hardly comes as any surprise to those who have participated some years in relation to the tunnel in the Old Town, and as some have pointed out earlier, there were many important moments that were raised in connection with the proposal for a tunnel in the Old Town. It's now six years ago. There is no doubt that it has been positive for the city district that the debate on the Old Town Tunnel also started an urban development debate of a completely different dimension. As I have worked so closely to the local involvement and also the urban government exposure that has been in this matter, I am not in doubt that many positive things have come out of the debate on the Old Town Tunnel. Six years ago, this was a city that had been demolished for a long time, both in terms of transport problems and in a number of other areas. It was a city that was described in many ways as a ghetto. And what have we got since we raised the debate? Among other things, we have adopted an opera in the context of urban development here in Stortinget. I think that's very important to bring with it. And as Odd Einar Dørum also pointed out, there have been a number of things happening in the field of transport in the same era. There has been a little laugh about this that we should have a tunnel in Old Town, and I have been here for so many years that I have to admit that there are a lot of transportation projects that you might see in retrospect could have been done differently – or perhaps not done at all. But now leave it. It was a broad commitment, not only in the Storting, but also in the district, and it sparked debates in the district parties in Oslo City. In the end, I want to say that I actually believe that the Stortinge has benefited from an insight into how the Old Town as a city was developing. It's not just the tunnel, of course, we've had a wide bet area from the Workers' Party in the Old Town, and there's no doubt that the result that's now available is a recognition that the case was far more complicated than what you had to believe. But that's the sum sum I think the neighborhood's come out of it, after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e428	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e431	Fortunately, the debate today has not revealed much new, perhaps with the exception of a few things, for example. Former Minister of Transport Dørum’s self-recognition of everything he was unable to predict a year ago — interesting considerations in today’s debate. Kofoed-Larsen was concerned with the difficult basic conditions – unless something very new today either. Basic conditions in this part of the capital have been known for a long time. As far as I know, Scripture says that one should be careful to build one's house on a sandy ground. There might be such considerations that Kofoed-Larsen has been doing lately. But then to the important point here. Both Kofoed-Larsen, Nilsen, Stensaker and Ringstad were saying that DKK 3-5 billion is a lot of money, and they made it like that it's the new information in relation to the big costs that is now one of the main reasons why you're going to scrape the Old Town Tunnel. Then I'll ask people to read St. prp. No 33 for 1996-1997, which was the treatment of the Storting quite exactly four years ago. There are costs for the Old Town Tunnel at 1 billion DKK, 1.3 billion DKK, 2.6 billion DKK, 3.2 mil-litres DKK and 7.3 billion for the different tunnel options – and that in 1996-kronar. So there were tunnel alternatives four years ago that were far more expensive than what you've been doing over the past four years. I have every respect for the committee leader's argument that one should spend money on other railway projects instead. Now, to the extent that the Old Town Tunnel has never been a railway project, it's always been an urban development project, but it's a very good argument that one now believes that one should spend the money on other railway projects. I think that's fair. But one must not try to, as if on its own conscience, try to present it as if one now knew in 2001 that there are huge costs associated with the Old Town Tunnel – one also knew in 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e440	It was obviously not enough to use two sentences on the posts of the representative Myrlis. In fact, my self-recognition was about what has been of positive will in the Oslo area to find untraditional solutions to solve something. This is in the direction of the proposal to which I am a co-rapporteur today, and cannot be used for the past. But if you're going to go back to the past, it was probably like this – and the representative Myrli has a memory from this time – that the Gardermoban was actually supposed to be 100 pst. profitable, and Rome’s sport really shouldn’t have leaked. Now, if we rise from any kind of party political settlement in this, and just take inward that we've learned that it was like that, then it could be thought that it formed a broader background of experience than sticking to a big business from 1996-1997. And it could be that anyone who is busy with rail operations in Norway – and there I know that the representative Myrli and I are on the line – could be a little more humiliated when you tried to score some points because you thought you now had a sovereign path. I'm not going to say more than that, but that's of course the total recognition that I'm part of. And that's a different kind of recognition than the one I referred to when in the Oslo area it's actually willing – to say it a little popular – to act like old-fashioned Westerners and participate in fissures with a lot of pressure and power. That's a completely different admission. And I've never seen the Old Town project as anything but an urban development project. But there's a railway section in it, of course, and that's the slope ratio that's on the Brynsbahn, which is really not quite ideal for railway operations if you're going to look at it first, but which, of course, has to be given priority to other aspects and other measures. So I think if you're going to start summing up first, it's probably the entire width of the experience field that counts. I don't know, but if we went into the other side of the NSB or what it had to be, I think someone and everyone had a surprise. And then I think the Stortinget has said in many ways that he is willing to go in and learn from it and see how to make sure that there is a railway operation in Norway in the years that are coming that we can be familiar with. But I think it would be wise to keep in mind that this is the width of the field of experience that affects Stortinget. I guess that's how the Committee on Transport thinks, at least that's how I feel they're writing. On that basis and also in connection with some of the wise words that came from the representative Rune E. Kristiansen, I don't think we should make this a sort of political football game because if the representative Myrli thinks he found some sort of gold grain from 1996-97.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e457	First I want to say that I think the representative Rune E. Kristiansen in many ways has actually kept the best post here. I think it's absolutely right that the discussion around the Old Town Tunnel contributed to what we've now seen related to the Old Town and all that was there. It's in many ways the good that's come out of it. I think some and each of us, no matter what the representative Myrli may have thought, might have enjoyed the walk through the Old Town that time to see what problems were there, no matter what it was connected to. So you've got a greater focus on it. I think the representative Kristiansen is quite right about that. Then I would say to the representative Myrli – that is a question of how much time you should spend on this – that there is clearly a significant difference between NOK 1 billion and NOK 7 billion. It's a huge tension that lay at the bottom of it. So now you've got the bill on the table attached to this – it costs between NOK 3 billion and NOK 3.5 billion. So I believe that I said quite clearly in my post that there were not only questions about the price of the tunnel. In the meantime, many things have happened relating to the Norwegian railway system, which makes it reasonable to review and see how we are going to use these funds. And then you've come to that conclusion, at least from the right, based on the means at your disposal, that this is now the most sensible thing to do, and then we use the money a little bit better, tidy up and doing things for the benefit of those who are busy and want to get a better railway in this country. The representative Myrli knows, for example: Excellent, although this has nothing to do with the Railway Agency, that in its time the Power 600 was to be implemented in the NSB to finance a large number of the train purchases made. The representative Myrli knows perfectly well that about five cents have not come out of this, and that we probably have significant financing problems associated with the NSB that we're going to discuss in this house over the next six months. I am convinced that we can all go in ourselves in this area to really try to find solutions on how we are going to work together to lift the rail to this country, so that the service of that transport system gets better than it is today. It's a challenge for all of us. The slightly annoying tone associated with this does not seem to benefit this matter, for many people have had to change their positions along the way, and I think more people will have to do it in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e468	Interestingly, the representative Myrli hassles over the other parties who have now found out that the price is too high. I just have to remind the representative Myrli first that the Workers' Party was also at the Committee position in 1997 on the operation of the Old Town in the tunnel, while he now says that he is very pleased that the others in the Committee have now turned around and that it has been up to these parties that this was a bad project. What's the reality, is that the cost that was calculated to be from $1 billion to $7 billion, now is from $3 billion to $5 billion. The background of experience that I very much sketched in my previous article on the Rome sport, has certainly made one see that this can be a lot more expensive tunnel than what will be the positive effect of building this tunnel. So the total image makes us come up with another result this time. In addition, there is something about where it makes sense to use the resources we now have. And then the Christian People's Party – together with the entire committee, as far as I remember – has said that we want to spend money on other railway projects in the Oslo area, Skøyen-Asker and Oslo-Ski, which we believe are more appropriate in terms of resource use and use. It also agrees with the Workers' Party, and it is the Christian People's Party satisfied with it. That's why I don't think there's any reason for the strong hoarseness over the other parties in this context either.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e477	I have to say I'm sorry if Kofoed-Larsen understood it so that I've been driving with strong hoarseness – then we probably have a slightly different perception of what it means in a political discussion. No, I haven't found any gold grains from 1996-97, as Odd Einar Dørum said. My point is that the problem is the same today as it was in 1997. Everyone knew it would be incredibly expensive to build the Old Town Tunnel. Everyone knew in 1997, if one would go into it, that it would bring significant disadvantages to the NSB during the construction period. Everyone knew that for construction reasons there would be significant practical challenges in the Old Town during the construction period. And everyone knew that it would meet enormous challenges with regard to all the important cultural memories that exist in the area. We would like to discuss the Gardermoban, the Rome sports and the NSB's past, present and future. But I underline one more time: my point is that it's the same problem today as for four years ago, and so maybe one should say in the name of self-recognition that we've changed our mind, and what we did with the fire and bram for four years ago, and for six years ago, we don't think it's the case anymore. So the Oslo inner east and the Old Town in particular. The working party shall take responsibility for cleaning up that part of our capital. Rune Kristiansen described in an excellent way what has been done and what is to be done. If today’s vote is given a majority – and everything points to that, no special surprises have emerged in the debate – then noise protection and other measures must take place in the Old Town. It has been decided that the opera should be built in Bjørvika, and if this magnificence is somewhat in line with what has been said today in view of the importance of other measures for urban development to clean up in this part of Oslo, this great man should also get up and make sure that there is a large majority to put in place the Bjørvika Tunnel gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e490	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e504	In Document No: 8:51 it is proposed to ask the Government to submit amendments to the Road Law, amendments relating to training in the smooth running of heavier vehicles. In 1992, the Stortinget adopted the requirement for compulsory smooth running training for persons required to take driving licences for heavier vehicles. This requirement applies today to driving test candidates in South and East Norway, the areas of the country where there are smooth running paths for such training. Other parts of the country are exempt from such training. The smooth running track in North Norway, after opening, has had technical problems and, as a result, has also had economic problems, and it has therefore not worked as intended. In addition to pointing out that the requirement for smooth running training does not apply to pre-test candidates from all over the country, Document No. 8:51 also referred to evaluation students there. are assessed and asked if the smooth running course has an off-shooting effect. In a letter of 13 March 2001 from the Ministry of Transport of the Council of State, the Committee was informed that the Ministry assessed the training arrangements and also the framework conditions for the smooth running routes in question. At the same time, it has been a pity to design a fairer and more flexible system for the pilot trial candidate data. In addition, we have been informed that the Road Directorate is now conducting a hearing with proposals for changes to the framework conditions and regulations for smooth running training for drivers of heavy goods vehicles. In the light of the work being done in the Department and the Directorate-General for Road Transport, the Committee proposes that Document No. 8:51 shall be added to the minutes. The majority consider it to be the work requested in Document No. 8:51, already going on, and it's natural to wait for what's now being done in the Department and the Road Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e519	The requirement that persons required to take a driver’s licence for a bus, lorry or combination of vehicles have been subject to compulsory smooth driving training applies today to driving test candidates residing in South and East Norway. As a result of the fact that the track in North Norway is currently not operational, persons from parts of the Nordic region as well as Troms and Finnmark have temporary exemption from the training. Today, only two plants operate. In order to make such a training scheme nationwide, it is therefore necessary to establish operations at the smooth track of the North Norwegian Traffic Centre in Lenvik, which went bankrupt in the summer of 2000. The size has previously granted many millions of kroner for the construction of this facility. In addition, a total of 14 million grants have been granted. kr from municipality and county. The municipality of Lenvik has dealt with the matter politically and decided to purchase the track. There was a grant from the owner of the purchase price of SEK 3.2 million. kr. The purchase price is provided for by borrowing pending government grants. The total cost of purchase and start-up was estimated at 4 million by the municipality. kr. By letter of 19 December 2000, the municipality of Lenvik applied for a grant of 1.6 million. kr. In addition, grants of up to 50 pst have been applied for. the costs related to noise issues and other additional investments required before take-off. The basis for those costs and investments has not been specified. It is an explicit objective that the plant can be put into operation in 2001. However, the condition for future operation at the installation is changed framework conditions. The municipality requests that the Minister for Transport in this context actively contribute to facilitating the conditions for new operations. Aid granted by the State of Lenvik Municipality for the partial financing of the purchase of the smooth-driving plant should not lead to a State holding in the plant. The facility will be operated without any State guarantee for additional investments or operations. The Ministry has written to the Municipality of Lenvik that there is a commitment to a contribution of 1.6 million. kr. This will, however, require a down-to-earth treatment. Against this background, the Government has said that, in the context of the revised national budget, it will be proposed that the municipality of Lenvike be granted a grant of 1.6 million. kr on the budget of the Ministry of Transport. The Directorate-General for Roads is now conducting a consultation with proposals for changes to the framework conditions and legislation, subject to the following conditions: The scheme shall be made nationwide. Candidates can take courses on their own choice. Courses are conducted before the examination or at the latest within one year of the issue of a driving licence. Paths shall be equal to the price determined by the Directorate of Roads. Baneier/course organiser decides for themselves the period during which they will offer courses. Approval of course organiser and course path, establishment of normal training plan, etc. be continued as at present. If these are the main features of a new arrangement, the arrangement becomes fairer by requiring everyone to complete the course. By giving the opportunity to take the course up to a year after the driving test, students will also be able to have a better level of driving technology when they meet on the course. This will make the teaching situation easier for on-the-job instructors. In many cases it may also be in relation to the employment situation, housing conditions, travel conditions, etc. be more practical for the course participant to take the driving test first. At the same time, it could help balance the cost differences between students. I believe that the implementation of these proposals will largely address shortcomings in the current system. This will be in line with the considerations highlighted in the proposal for an amendment by the proposers. The aim is to provide some of the training courses for a training course in which students experience driving situations that often lead to accidents when driving smoothly. In the light of the analysis of many heavy-duty accidents, an attempt has been made to add to exercises and demonstrations where students experience that driving errors can have very serious consequences. These are situations that may be difficult to experience on the road without endangering the student and other road users. Many also take driving licences in light seasons when driving conditions are not particularly problematic. Without smooth training these would not receive any special training in relation to running on smooth roads. The content of the smooth course has changed slightly in the last year. There is more focus on safety thinking – less on accessibility. A common objection to special traffic training, such as a smooth course, is that increased skills are used to choose a less cautious driving behaviour. A driver who knows that he or she has good skills in one area may be tempted to drive less carefully than a driver who is more uncertain about his or her own skills. In order to mitigate this mastering aspect, more than in the past, emphasis is now placed on demonstrating on the track how driving errors, equipment or loading errors can cause serious accidents. I have had the pleasure of coming with Norsk Trafikksenter A/S in the municipality of Våler in Hedmark. Heavy-duty car training is well maintained. The course has become an important exercise course also for young people who are required to take driving licences and a gathering place for young people interested in motorised sport. Heavy-duty car training at Norsk Trafikksenter A/S is a very good example of how this should work across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e566	The size decided in 1992 to introduce mandatory training in smooth driving for heavy-duty drivers. In this connection, it was necessary to build smooth and large-scale lanes for trucks, buses and wagon trains. Already in June 1993 the first track was operational in Våler in Hedmark. This path was already in the construction phase when this proposal came up. On 1 January 1994, the Scandinavian Traffic Centre opened in Kristiansand. Four years later, in October 1998, another new track opened up, Nordnorsk Trafiksenter. The path had a turbulent start and is currently bankrupt. The requirement on compulsory training for drivers of heavy duty vehicles § 1 applies to persons who are required to acquire driving licences for the first time in categories C, CE, D or DE. This Regulation applies only to persons residing in 13 counties and half of another, while the other counties are exempt from compulsory smooth driving training. Despite the lack of smooth driving training, these have unlimited access to driving in all counties of the country. This also applies to drivers of heavier vehicles from abroad. In order to assess the scheme, an evaluation study has been carried out, including in relation to whether the smooth course has an accident reduction effect. The results for the latter are available in TØI Report 334/1996. The trend in the results of this study was that a smooth course has an adverse effect on the accident risk and that the course does not reduce the risk of smooth conduct. Around three-quarters of the professional community in Norway, including public and private training institutions engaged in heavy-duty training, are also of the same opinion that the smooth driving courses do not produce the desired effect. It turns out that as confidence in your own driving skills increases, so does risk. It is clear that the Department and its professional authority, the Directorate of Roads, which is also responsible for the State Road Administration, have no other motive than to defend politicians' decision on the establishment of compulsory smooth driving and the construction of very expensive facilities. In order to increase road safety in Norway, it must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be based on realistic training that provides basic defensive understanding and preventive competence for drivers. This can best be achieved by training on the road, where all other elements are located, and where it is always expected to predict the behaviour of passengers, which is not always the most rational. Professional drivers are expected to be much more likely to drive correctly and risk-free, despite longer, wider and heavier vehiclesthan passenger cars. In order to provide the future driver of heavier vehicles with competence, training must go over two periods, the first being basic training according to the curriculum of driving licences of heavier classes, without smooth driving, and then taking a driving test at a traffic station. This will give way for a period of time until the first winter. First winter, from November to March of the following year, compulsory courses are conducted on snow-/ice-covered roads, which normally have winter maintenance, and where, among others, assessment of the use and application of chains is a central point. Driving licence applicants taking their initial training in the November to March period participate in this course in the same winter. As a result of the fact that the track in North Norway is currently not in operation, persons from parts of the Nordic region, as well as Troms and Finnmark, have temporary exemption from the training. The party considers that TØI Report 334/1996 shows that the trend in the results was that the smooth running course had an adverse effect on the accident risk. The report concluded that at that time the price did not reduce the risk of smooth management and that the scheme resulted in significant economic differences based on the country of origin of the individual. The progress batch agrees that smooth running courses can be conducted up to one year after the driving test has been taken, and that is how you have a certain level of driving technology when you meet at the course. This will mean that candidates who do not pass the driving test do not pay for a relatively expensive course. The Progress Party also sees the problems for the heavy-duty cars, which, when the smooth-driving course is postponed up to one year until wintertime, will experience a clear reduction in student access, which will thus have an impact on the economic situation of the railways. However, we believe that in order to increase road safety in Norway, this must be based on realistic training, which provides a basic defensive understanding and preventive competence of drivers. We believe that this can best be achieved by training on the road, where all other elements are located, and where to expect and predict the behaviour of passengers at all times. Therefore, the Party considers that compulsory training in smooth driving for heavier vehicles on the track must be replaced by risk prevention and fair training. On this basis, the Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the Road Traffic Act to replace compulsory training for heavy-duty vehicles on the road with risk prevention and fair training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e599	The representative of Stensaker made the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e614	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e647	During the debate, Mr Ruggtvedt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Practice payment in Oslo is under investigation and the value of the properties released may be included as a financing basis for adding the Gamleby tracks in relation to new double-track Oslo S-Ski in the next transport planning period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e670	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e677	Odd Einar Dørum has asked for the word – to the tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e680	I have committed the incursion not to be observant enough. When you look at the proposal for a decision, it is divided into two points. It should be such that I must have the right to vote against the indent that says that there is no tunnel, because that is a consequence of the proposal I have made, while I am, of course, for the second indent, to correct the local conditions. I should have discovered this in time, so I'm sorry. But better late than never, so I hope that voting with the President's consent can be arranged this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e685	The President will then vote on the two indents of the adjustment separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-03-30.ana.ud1287e702	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the Road Traffic Act to replace compulsory training for heavy-duty vehicles on the road with risk prevention and fair training.’
