ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e23	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Nils Amund Røhne, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Delegation to the 2001 session of the Council of Europe, the second part of Strasbourg is the application signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Tom Thoresen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representative of Aud Blattmann from 23 April to 25 April and of the representatives of Eirin Faldet, Annelise Höegh, Inge Myrvoll, Tomas Norvoll, Jorunn Ringstad, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen, Anita Apelthun Säle and Tom Thoresen from 23 April to 26 April from the representative of Odd Eriksen, an application for a maternity leave from 23 April to 20 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West Aegean counties: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor the Hedmark counties: Nils Amund RøhneFor the Hordaland counties: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor the Nordland counties: Lisbeth Holand, Bjørn Olsen and Kari BridevollFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine S. Tornås and Anders C. ShaastadFor the Rogaland counties: Toril Haaland HorpestadFor the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Hakon GiilFor the Eastfold counties: Morten Olsen3. Lisbeth Holand and Ann Kathrine S. Tornås are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Inge Myrvoll and Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e133	The representative of Terje Johansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e136	On behalf of Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the development of the Norwegian financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e141	The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e144	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a private proposal that the Government in the spring session will follow up the previous decision of the Stortingen and make proposals to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e149	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e159	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies by members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e166	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a thorough and good account of Norway's commitment and foreign policy tasks two weeks ago. He focused on four key areas: Europe, cooperation with the United States, relations with Russia and the work of the Security Council. In all these four areas, interesting and significant changes are taking place which require attention and follow-up from the Norwegian side. A small country naturally has to assess how it can best assert itself and its interests and objectives in a world of global media and arenas. Norway has traditionally placed great emphasis on cooperation through international and regional bodies such as the United Nations, the OSCE, NATO, the EU, the Council of Europe, the Nordic Council, the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council – a series of councils in which Norway spends a lot of time and considerable resources to express its views and promote its interests in cooperation with equal and equal nations. In the case of a strong commitment by these organisations, Norway can make use of its experience, competence and resources, and we do so successfully in many cases. The global challenges make it necessary to pursue an active foreign policy. Environmental issues are global and can therefore only be resolved through extensive and committed cooperation. New technologies are exploding old boundaries for communication, relationships and trade, but also present major, fundamental and ethical challenges. Major migrations due to war, oppression, political unrest, hunger and drought also require increased international attention. No matter how you approach Norwegian membership of the EU, it is widely agreed that Norway should participate actively in the development of the new Europe through different networks and organisations. The aim must be to strengthen human rights, democracy and economic development in order to ensure peace and stability in Europe in this way. The EU is up in two demanding processes. One is the deepening of cooperation on the basis of the Union Treaty. The second is the process where the geographic extension is centered. These two parallel processes provide for demanding and difficult balances. We do not know – and I do not believe the EU – where this will end in the end. However, with the major changes now taking place in the EU, it is all the more important for Norway to make active use of the EEA Agreement and the other agreements in order to meet the new challenges that are subsequently set on the agenda. Through supplementary agreements and cooperation programmes, it is important to ensure the best possible participation of Norway in line with our values, objectives and interests. NATO has been under strong military and strategic conversion. Norway has a primary interest in preventing any possibility of marginalisation within NATO, and for this reason we should participate as far as possible in the new security policy bodies and structures developed within the EU. Moreover, it must be right that Europe should carry its own burdens militarily far more than is the case today. This has an impact on Norway’s ability to provide forces for international military operations. Norway strengthens its own security by participating in such operations, but it also has solidarity and a willingness to do so. The European Security and Defence Cooperation (ESDP) shall be developed on the basis of European needs, but in close cooperation with NATO. The EU should also be able to deal with conflicts itself without NATO being involved, but there is still uncertainty as to how this cooperation will develop in the future. What has often been referred to as French positions may now appear to have a stronger echo and understanding in the EU than what I believe will serve both the interests of Norway and NATO. Parallel military structures in Europe must be undesirable, whether viewed from NATO's point of view or from Norway's point of view. The situation in Russia has, throughout history, played a major role in stability in Europe. That's the way it's going to be in the future. We must therefore closely monitor developments in and around Russia. After 70 years of communism and 45 years of cold war, one must still focus on a good neighbourly relationship and involve Russia in western structures both politically and commercially. Reports from Russia show that 40 pst. of the Russian population, or approx. 50 million people live below the official poverty line. One of the main challenges in cooperation with Russia may be that the border between Norway and Russia represents one of the biggest welfare gaps on the globe. At the same time, the major unsolved environmental problems in the northern regions are linked to the industrial and unsafe landfill of nuclear waste. Russia and Norway have good bilateral relations. Nevertheless, it is frustrating to have to repeat insurance for example. The role of the Globe II radar, completely unrelated to a possible future US national rocket defence, and also had to respond to groundless criticism as regards military exercises in the north or Norwegian administration of Arctic environmental interests in Svalbard. On the part of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have had an open and active dialogue with our Russian colleagues on this, and we will continue to use this channel to deepen our assessments and clarify possible misunderstandings. But gradually it becomes increasingly necessary and urgent to be able to use this important time with our Russian colleagues to more effectively discuss new points of view and develop new areas of cooperation for the benefit of both countries. The United States is our closest ally. Therefore, it is in Norway’s interest to maintain a good relationship with the United States and to strengthen transatlantic defence and security cooperation. At the same time, we need to be aware of our own self-reliance to give notice of conditions we believe are critical, even if it should not please our powerful friends and allies, and at the same time use our own opportunities as a small nation to be door openers and speakers for sensible solutions, which can sometimes be hindered by the prestige of the great, dominant actors of the international arena. I would like to give the Secretary of State recognition and tribute for a keen and good response to the political authorities of the United States for a disappointing and, in my view, unreflected and irresponsible attitude towards global environmental issues through the rejection of the Kyoto agreement. The conclusion, of course, did not come as a surprise, but there are now protests of disappointment and even anger – one should believe the telegrams – from all over the world because of President Bush's decision to set aside this important agreement. This selfish act is the only superpower in the world, and we have to use our good contacts with the American authorities to clearly express our disagreement, our disappointment and our indignation that this is now being signalled by the new American administration. However, we must not lose hope that it will be possible to create a new basis for the agreements and understanding reached in Kyoto, even if it does happen within a different framework. Norway has made good progress in its important work in the Security Council. The task of chairing the Sanctions Committee for Iraq is one of the most demanding in the United Nations system in political terms. I support the Government's decision to establish an embassy in Baghdad. Good information and open channels are prerequisites for doing a good job under the leadership of the Sanctions Committee. Changes in the sanction regime to make sanctions more targeted and effective are widely supported by the Security Council. Here it is done a good and effective work from the Norwegian side in a short time. We must avoid Saddam Hussein being given unnecessary nourishment in his propaganda war. At the same time, it must be stressed that there is money available to Iraq today on the United Nations accounts for both food and medicine for the civilian population if Saddam Hussein wants to help the civilian population. I have also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken an initiative in a wide-ranging investigation into how a better person can control the international market forces. It's a good initiative, and an investigation into these complicated mechanisms can in any case be of value. Let's look at this troll and the forces we're going to measure with, but let's not underestimate these cancers either. For my part, I would like to recommend a sober, realistic and balanced strategy, which, of course, needs to be put into an international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e201	The leader of the Committee had a constructive and fruitful approach to a number of individual issues in Norwegian foreign policy, including as a follow-up to the orientation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In brief, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Jagland, said the following: ‘The main objective of our foreign policy is to ensure Norwegian interests primarily in our neighbourhoods. Nevertheless, when we are so deeply involved in other parts of the world, both through development work, efforts for peace, reconciliation and human rights, this is because we have an obligation to do something for others and a belief that through such efforts we also safeguard our own long-term interests." I then assume, after what we have heard, that this is a main objective of Norwegian foreign policy that the representative Steensnæs shares, so that we are close to having this as a primary objective for Norwegian foreign policy with full support in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e213	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined the importance of consensus in all key foreign policy areas. There has been a strength in Norwegian foreign policy through changing governments, and I will also use the opportunity to underline the same relationship. There are many similarities also between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. It was kind of funny that the representative Blankenborg took up exactly these sentences, because I was wondering if I should use my measured ten minutes to reflect a little on this formulation, namely that we should focus first and foremost our attention politically on our neighbourhoods, but that we also have the duty to show solidarity and humanity and to help in other parts of the world. I would have expressed myself somewhat differently than the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this. I see more of Norway's foreign policy sphere in a near global context, where we share destiny with all the peoples of the world in many ways, and where we are aboard a spaceship where we can't in a way make spheres of interest that are confined to others. Therefore, for my part, I would have preferred other descriptions of how to balance Norwegian interests against global interests. As globalisation speeds up, where we become economically, politically and culturally intertwined with other nations, it becomes more and more evident that Norwegian foreign policy must also have a more global perspective. For my part, solidarity with the poorest countries is as important and heavy a component of Norwegian foreign policy as that of economic cooperation in our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e220	I would like to follow up on the last moment that the Steensnæs representative had in his reply: solidarity with the world's poorest. In today's Evening Post, there's a larger notice that the Government will propose to remove all customs barriers to the Norwegian market for the poorest of the world's countries. I would very much like to hear the representative Steensnæs' view of this. Does the Christian People’s Party agree that there is a good and forward-looking measure that may have greater scope in the long term than the aid? Then I'd like to put my finger on a paradox that I thought I'd hear out of the lead of the Foreign Affairs Committee. He used strong words against U.S. self-esteem. We can agree for a moment that it is sad that the United States is taking the position you are taking in relation to the Kyoto process. At the same time, it is a fact that in Norwegian context we tend to use a slightly different word than selfishness, we tend to use the word self-determination. It tends to have relatively positive associations in Norwegian vocabulary. We've been able to operate on one scale in terms of our own behavior, and another scale in terms of other countries' behaviour. In concrete terms, with regard to the development of security policy in Europe, Steensnæs pointed out that Norway is in a dilemma. We must counteract marginalization, because through our own choices we have put ourselves in the same situation as Turkey. We are members of NATO, and we are non-participants in committed cooperation in the EU. Does Steensnæs see a paradox in this that, in order to safeguard Norwegian self-determination, we have put ourselves in a situation where we must actively participate in military operations where we ourselves do not participate in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e231	The representative's pay question gives me the opportunity to express joy at the Government's decision to remove the customs barriers that apply to imports from MUL countries. I think that is a sensible decision, and I have always thought that those who have been concerned that this should affect Norwegian interests in a problematic way have exaggerated that importance. It will be interesting to see how this will shift in relation to how imports from the developing world will develop, but I believe, however, that this is a sensible way of helping and supporting developing countries. But I can't, unlike the representative, set this up as an alternative to the aid business, as the wages expressed it. He challenged me to have an opinion as to whether this would have a greater impact than the aid. I think of this as complementary sizes and not as alternatives to how to help developing countries. We have to do both if we are to succeed in our help and solidarity with the poorest countries, and I want Right welcome to have a different approach to this than trying to make contradictions. Then wages are invited to an EU debate based on the theory that maritime rights and self-determination are two synonymous concepts. I will strongly reject that. Self-esteem is when one uses one's power and position in a context of promoting one's own interests regardless of whether this serves the community or not. And that's where I think there's reason to be clear about expressing both disappointment and frustration and disagreement with the U.S. authorities. Going into maritime law becomes a completely different and deeper debate, which time does not allow me to take here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e238	The representative Steensnæs spent relatively little time in his post on the Middle East conflict and, in particular, the conflict between Palestine and Israel. Of course, this may be because time did not allow this, but it may also be due to the fact that the representative Steens-nose did not want to comment specifically on this. In a conflict there are always at least two parties, as well as in the conflict between Palestine and Israel. In recent times, from the point of view of the Progress Party, there has been considerable pressure on Israel, and Israel has in most respects been one-sidedly focused on as the great bandit in this conflict. This leads to a clear burden for Israel, but it should also lead to a review of the set of thoughts in order to verify whether an image is correct or not. Arafat and his apparatus have seized intifada, pushed children in front of them in a conflict, and thus confronted Israel with a very difficult situation. This, of course, brings light Israeli soldiers with weapons to children, and it's kind of been photographed. I have little seen that, sir. Steensnæs has tried to understand Israel in the situation they are in, and I would like to ask the representative Steensnæs whether he believes that the media's handling of the conflict and the government's handling of the conflict give a proper picture of Israel's situation and Israel's actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e245	The representative Røsjorde was so lovable to say – he put it this way – that I spent a little time on the Middle East question. Unfortunately, I did not spend any time on it because I followed the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the four areas. But it is clear that the Middle East is an important part of international policy, and it is also an important part of Norwegian foreign policy, because we play a role here. I have been frustrated many times by the descriptions given in the international media, including in the Norwegian media, where the conflict is described as they were occupied directly against the occupiers. It is true that it is UN resolutions that determine what these conditions are like, but we do not have war in this area, no one will at any rate express explicitly that there has been war in the areas. On the contrary, both parties are trying to find an opportunity for negotiations and to come to the negotiating table. Then any use of violence is an obstacle to a sensible solution. The first thing that has to happen in order for one to find stability and reconciliation and, hopefully, a peace agreement at the end of such a process is that all forms of violence must cease. For my part, I fully agree with the representative Røsjorde when he charges the crooked presentation in the media of what this is like. One must, of course, be able to criticize Israel when they use their military overpower for retaliation actions and pure executions on the open street without law and judgment. It has to be something to say about. But the imbalance in describing the intifada as innocent rock casting, where it's about both small arms, rockets and other weapons, to me it's clearly a proportion shift in how this conflict really develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e252	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e256	I think it's an advantage that we didn't have any more time to discuss the difference between "property" and "maritime". There's a lot of hard homework to do before you can put a precise limit on the two outlines, I think, but I'm looking for it to be put on the table. Sir. Steensnæs was supposed to be in some sort of spaceship when he was asked if the main objective of Norwegian foreign policy is primarily to safeguard Norwegian interests, primarily in our neighbourhood, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs put it. Maybe this is a little bit of a theoretical exersis, but still. And the fact that Steensnæs sees this from above and so rather will not go into such a definition, we can take it easy, because in practice this gives you the same conclusions, but it's a slightly different heading. So leave it alone. It is in itself impossible on the basis of this main objective to discuss Norwegian foreign policy without discussing Norway's relationship with the EU and the role of the EU in Europe. It is now time for the Stortinget to hold a wide debate on this on 22 May, so I will try to talk about Norwegian foreign policy without mentioning it now. This also applies partly in relation to our closest neighbourhood, as most of our closest areas are also part of the EU and the EU process, so it is natural to discuss the relationship with our neighbours in that context. I'm not going to mention Russia in particular here, although it's one of the most important neighbourhoods, because others from the Labour Party will come up with this later. I should rather do as the Foreign Minister and start with the area of Europe that may have shaken Europe and become most of the last decade, that is, the development of South-Eastern Europe. We decided in the Stortinget, according to the Government's arrangement, that stability in the area depends on stability in Belgrade and Zagreb, that is, Serbia and Croatia, and Norwegian policy has been based on this since then. Important steps have been taken in the future in both countries. Without the changes in Zagreb and Belgrade, the situation in Bosnia could be much worse than it actually is today. The government and the president of Croatia have helped to avoid further deterioration in Bosnia, and it is not necessarily popular in the home country. It is important that such bold and important contributions to the stabilisation of Europe are promoted and supported in the rest of Europe. It is also in this perspective that the debate on when Milosevic can speak up in The Hague should be seen. It is important that Milosevic can make up for himself and stand ready for what he has done, in Serbia, and that he then get to say the matter up in The Hague. I notice that this now also seems to be the line like for example. The United Kingdom is on -- at least that's how I read Robin Cook's statements after the meetings he had in Belgrade lately. This is a pragmatic and practical line that is important to follow. It is important that one avoids undermining the Yugoslavian and Serbian government's plight in the outside world by constantly pointing to these problems and paradoxes that we face. At the same time, the constant debate on these issues will weaken national confidence. I think we're now about to reach some kind of common attitude in this that makes a case order. But at the same time, this issue of extradition must be handled in such a way that it does not undermine the confidence of the countries in the area that have actually cooperated closely with the Hague Court and are subjected to dramatic criticism of the secret arena. Because it is not necessarily popular to hand out people who a few years ago were considered war heroes, to the Court of Justice in The Hague. However, it is important that this happens, and those who have then chosen to cooperate in this way must also have full support in Europe for this – perhaps more than in words. There is a choice in Montenegro at the end of this month. This may be the case later this summer, in the case of self-employment for this republic. South-Eastern Europe does not need new borders, but the important thing is that national ambitions are channelled through democratic political work. And this should guide our attitudes to the national ambitions that emerge in the different countries of the region. One cannot choke national ambitions with power and power; they must be channelled into political work. Regional cooperation and inclusion in wider European and international cooperation are, of course, the way to go here. Kosovo will be at the heart of the Norwegian debate in the future as it is a Norwegian representative who will take over the order from today. With Kosovo, we also saw our finger on a question that was for a long time underestimated in Europe, what we can call the Albanian question on the Western Balkans. Nor does this national ambition disappear by the use of cash military power on its own. This requirement and the desire for national self-determination for Albanians are not new, but it is now in a new context that several countries in the region have become independent. The important thing here is that one can combine the use of military power to defeat terrorism and extra forces, but that's not what will end ambitions. Political cooperation and practical solutions must be met, in particular practical solutions that may result from cooperation with moderate leaders in these areas. So the whole thing is a question of building up political leadership. Norway has played an important role in other parts of the area by providing and building moderate leadership for international cooperation. In my opinion, the challenges in Macedonia, Kosovo and the rest of the region are to help build up leadership and provide security for moderate leadership willing to cooperate internationally rather than using military power. So what we now see in Macedonia – which can only be the beginning of a long-standing, low-intensity conflict – is that we have used one of the means we need to use, namely the military and police power; now it is also important to combine this with political cooperation to show practical solutions. If there are no practical solutions, the conflict will continue for a long time. And as has been said many times before, this is perhaps the most sensitive area of Europe outside the border areas against Russia. Alexander the Great taught us that the master of the Vardar Valley is in control of the Balkans, and the Balkans is in a way the gateway to our part of Europe – and that is the way it is today. It is a European and world lamppost policy that has led in this area. One has taken conflict, and then the next one has appeared in the dark outside the cone of light that one has been inside. This may also be the case if you don't try to see it in context. This is also the gateway to an area that can be characterized by instability and conflict for a long, long time in the future because it is the gateway to a part of Europe's frontier area where the nation state has not had a foothold, where democracy has no tradition, and where the economic lifebuoys are so poor that it provides the grotto for nostalgia and nationalism, which is often the product of just bad living conditions and gloomy prospects. It is then one of the paradoxes that I have mentioned here many times, that one of the poorest countries that we can pick up on the globe is Moldova, where we now see that the number of applications for Russian citizenship increases dramatically because people want better living conditions. There is an indication that the situation is not what it should be. It is in this perspective that we need to see this whole area from Europe and east, where much of the world's gas and oil resources also exist. It is a poor combination of this with gas and oil resources, strategic location, nationalism osb. It is in this perspective that we also need to see the work in relation to the Middle East, largely trying to stabilise and ensure that the United States, Europe and others work together on solutions. There are solutions that are important in the Middle East – not resolutions, but practical solutions. And that's the direction of Norway's work in the Security Council, and that's what it has to be. So it's also important that we make sure that the United States is part of international cooperation. I look forward to the work started by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an American strategy, a broad-based effort to demonstrate the need for American involvement in the international arena and also show the importance of bilateral cooperation between Norway and the United States and find practical answers to this as far as possible to keep the United States within global economic cooperation. And this isn't just a question of military cooperation, even more so in the future this will be a question of economic cooperation. Trade wars can be as great a threat to international peace and stability as military conflicts in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e287	The representative of Blankenburg stressed that stability in the Balkans and south-east Europe is important for the whole of Europe’s development and thus also in the Norwegian sphere of interest. Norway has made considerable efforts and care for the Balkans over a long time. Asylum seekers have found safety in Norway, and it is expected that both Norway, Bosnia and Kosovo will now go home to build the country. The Great Britain and other European parliaments, as well as the parties, have committed themselves to inspiring parliamentarians and politicians in Bosnia to parliamentary and democratic thinking and action. But conflicts have tended to move unrelentingly in the Balkans. While Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia are now in a positive development, we see that Serbia, Kosovo and now Macedonia need international attention and support both in terms of democracy building, humanitarian aid and economic stimulation. However, the fact that the Government and Norway are shifting their efforts in line with the focus of the TV cameras is not unproblematic. Norway is now building up its efforts in Bosnia in favour of Serbia and Kosovo. This means that too much Norwegian effort is halved and unfinished in the Republic of Srpska and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The work of the Refugee Council at the Ossijek office must be phased out. By being there a little longer, Norwegian invested capital, trust and competence could give far better results. I would like to hear the representative of Blankenborg’s view that the Government will no longer maintain the level of activity in Bosnia-Herzegovina, among other things. the repatriation and integration of minority groups such as Serbs, Bosnians and Croats in the multi-ethnic Bosnia which are required by the Dayton Agreement and which Norway has undertaken to participate in the realisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e302	Unfortunately, I do not think it is right that Norway has shifted its political involvement in South-East Europe after the television cameras; on the contrary, it has been a stability and continuity in Norwegian policy in the area. The size ended with a consensus on a strategy for policy in South-East Europe, when the big news of cooperation with this area was up a long time ago, and it was established that the focus should be stable, and then the focus becomes very much Croatia and Serbia after that. This is the line that the Government has followed. There is no dramatic slowdown in the exposure. But what I think it is important that we discuss – and that is where Ludvigsen also has a point – is that one thing is the humanitarian effort, but the most important thing in this area is to help build a credible and effective state, so that law and order become a part of saying the daily life rather than the passage of small corruption and difficult connections on a personal level, as it is so neatly called, as one sees today. It is this which, in my view, is helping to prevent economic progress and repatriation in the area. Therefore, efforts must be directed towards cooperation with the government in the region to build the country, to build law and order, to build the budget and to build capacity, so that there are normal state formations that work. That's what provides the basis for a private business that brings economic recovery. I think this is the most important thing and what should be the direction of the work we do in Bosnia. When a concrete one is about refugees, there's a vicious circle of lack of houses, lack of possibilities combined with fear of represals that make this not going to happen, and there's this vicious circle of people that Ludvigsen was inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e313	I would like to thank Haakon Blankenborg for an interesting and insightful speech focusing on many other important issues in European policy than just the old EU debate on for and against Norwegian EU membership. But it may well be that we are going to be quite short in this state of happiness that opens up political debates on other types of issues. What created a certain turbulence around the Foreign Minister’s presentation was that, on the occasion of the presentation, he indicated that it could be relevant to prepare a new EU application long before what had been suggested in the past — as early as 2002 or 2003. The European Movement has recently held a national meeting and has indicated that it is not appropriate to submit a new application during the next major period. That is why I would like to have Blankenborg's own opinion: Could it not now be time for a single period of enlargement that should not be concerned with the fight over old battles that had been lost, and the work of sorrow from the yes side, which could really allow us to discuss many of the important and important political issues that Blankenborg is burning for as far as European policy is concerned, without wasting time on a rematch that is very likely to be lost in the next round as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e323	As far as I am aware, the European Movement is not going to send a new application for EU membership to Norway. And if such an application is to be made, it will be a product of changes in the evolution of Europe and in the relationship between Norway and Europe as one has to decide there and then. The rest will be more or less highly qualified assessments of what's going to happen around us in the next few years. But what we know is that there will be major changes, and what is also quite astonishing, is that I have the impression that a large majority here in the Storting, and therefore in the parties, want dramatic changes to take place in Europe, with the strong support of the Eastern European Union. This does not mean that Norway is going to hang around the central European countries to become a member of Europe, which means that there will be dramatic changes around us that we need to discuss. And then we have to discuss it without fear of conclusions. If you fear the conclusions, there will be a meager debate. If we go into such discussions without fear of conclusions, we can come up with quite constructive solutions, and perhaps solutions that we have not yet discussed. Just recall the discussion on the EEA Agreement, which appeared as an alternative agreement for one of Europe’s strongest trading blocs, namely EFTA. We got in there, and then find one to tear down the Wall in Berlin and the whole thing, and then our neighboring countries start looking for EU membership. It wasn't quite easy to know a few years ago. Then Europe changes, and then one to search. There may be changes that we are not quite able to run today, and then we have to make the conclusions when they come. And then it is not possible to say today whether this could be the case in 2002, 2004, 2007, or whatever in the world. But it is the debate on this which is so important. And I am very happy that SV goes into such a debate and looks at this without locking itself to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e335	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e338	The EU, the United States and Russia are the three actors that affect Norwegian interests most. This is why cooperation and relations with these countries are also becoming key pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. Taking care of our interests in relation to these three countries is an increasingly demanding task. Throughout the 1990s, institutions, power and leadership have been changing continuously, making diplomacy and foreign policy strategies more and more important. The interrelationship between the United States, the EU and Russia is also of great importance for Norway. The Foreign Minister’s reference to the state of health in cooperation between the United States and the EU is therefore timely. In the Proposition on the Conversion of Defence, the Government states: ‘If, in the longer term, the EU’s security policy line should go beyond US objectives, for example, by overemphasizing EU cooperation by the French line on increased European independence vis-à-vis the United States and NATO, the relationship between the United States and the EU could become more difficult.’ There is hardly any reason to believe that such a French line will be fully implemented in the EU, but there is no doubt that the common security and defence policy still has many unresolved issues. The organisation of cooperation between the EU and NATO is one of them. The EU in a weakened NATO without strong US involvement will be able to put Norway in a completely different security policy situation. Therefore, in order to safeguard our interests in security cooperation in Europe, a strategy for our cooperation with the United States can be an important contribution. The right assumes that such a strategy as the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to in his presentation will lead to concrete measures to strengthen Norwegian-American ties. Norway’s exclusion puts us outside the forums where the EU makes its assessments and decisions related to European security and defence policy. This is a serious problem for us. It imposes very great demands on the management of cooperation with the EU, and not least on our own defence and security policy devices. The treatment of the defence conversion proposition therefore has important foreign policy implications. Through it, Norway must meet the US's demands for a new burden-sharing and strengthen its own military capacity. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also referred to Russia as a demanding partner in his statement. The unjustified import ban on Norwegian fish may result from so-called old action patterns, as expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It shows that we need to be prepared to give fairly clear feedback to Russia, while at the same time the main objective is constantly to strengthen and develop cooperation in different areas. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the prospect of a broad international commitment to nuclear safety in North-West Russia. It is essential to get resource-intensive actors such as the EU and the United States to succeed in reducing the environmental threat posed by nuclear waste in Kola. And the will is there. EU Foreign Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten said in Moscow in January that the lack of proper storage conditions for nuclear waste from nuclear-powered vessels and reactors on Kola is like a damocles sword hanging all over Europe. He made it clear that the EU will give priority to nuclear clean-up at a high level in Kola. Norway must be the spearhead of the nuclear safety work in the north. However, uncertainty has been created as to whether the Government has given this work the necessary priority. On 2 March, on the basis of a preliminary report from the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could reveal that only two to three annual works have been set aside by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to follow up the management of the appropriations for nuclear safety work. Between 1995 and 1999, the figure was 590 million. kr. The right is understood by the difficulties encountered by the authorities in cooperating with Russia. However, the National Audit Office has pointed out that the cause of the problems lies not only in Russia but also in the Norwegian Foreign Administration. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain what he is doing to ensure that the work on the various nuclear safety projects is handled properly and in line with the Stortinge priorities. The Foreign Minister’s own statements on a more self-confident Russia also provide a reminder of the role of defence. We must be sure that in the future too, defence will meet our needs for military presence, intelligence, surveillance, sovereignty and the exercise of authority. It's vital to be a stabilizer in our own neighbourhood. On the right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs analyses the fact that the many fundamental processes of change in Europe are changing the framework conditions for European cooperation. A good illustration is the huge gap between the debate on the EU enlargement in 1994, the number of questions asked about it at all, and the current foreign debate, which will show broad support for a Norwegian action plan targeting 12 of the 13 candidate countries to the EU. For many years, the right has been the driving force behind increased efforts through the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe. Therefore, the right is satisfied that the Government has developed this action plan for increased cooperation and contact with the candidate countries, but the ambitions of the plan unfortunately exceed the Government’s willingness to provide sufficient money. If the funds currently allocated to the neighbourhoods are to be tripled in the nuclear projects, project support to Russia/SUS countries and a final part of the action plan for the candidate countries, the allocation above Chapter 197 needs to be increased. The right assumes that this will be done by presenting the revised national budget in May. Compared with what EU countries themselves contribute to the enlargement process, Norway’s 169 million seem to be. kr over two years disappearing little. The EU has spent DKK 570 billion over the period 2000-2006. Our Scandinavian neighbours, Sweden and Denmark, use considerable resources to support the establishment of food and environment in former Eastern Europe. Between 1989 and 1998, Sweden alone spent DKK 6.5 billion in support of economic conversion and environmental objectives. Norway is in danger of feeding itself to the claim that can sometimes be heard in other countries, that we are outside because we are ourselves enough. Norway shall chair the Sanctions Committee for Iraq and shall have both the responsibility and the ability to take initiatives to make the sanction regime more focused on the rulers and less harmful to the civilian population. We think it might be right to implement changes in the sanctions regime against Iraq. However, the right question is the wisdom of considering that penalties such as the instrument in general should be time-limited. The ability and willingness of some rulers to hit their own inhabitants suggests that when international societies are going to surrender, they should not tell exactly. A time-limit may act as an inspiration for some rulers to really endure, rather than as a propitiatory feature of the sanctioning regime. Free trade in goods and shipping services provided the basis for Norway’s development from one of Europe’s poorest countries in the mid 1800s to a developed industrial nation more than 50 years later. Now we have to give developing countries the same opportunities. It requires more free trade. But, of course, it requires a rule-based relationship between countries in terms of both trade, investment and capital transactions. The government will explore on a broad basis how we can contribute to better governance of international market forces, warning the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If that means the establishment of international financial market legislation and the discussion of how we can increase the impact of decisions taken internationally, then the Right is in favour of it. The right is open to assess instruments in the international structures that can ensure that decisions are actually followed up, i.e.: to introduce a greater degree of binding on participating countries. But when Ichland is talking about an international welfare state in the same pattern as the Norwegian welfare state, then the Right must report passports. Which of the mistakes we have made in Norway is what should be raised to a higher international level? Given that we have three levels of government in Norway, I see with horror and horror how many levels of government I will find the need for internationally. For example, the EU has: to a limited extent a common social policy. In fact, most welfare issues are left to the nation states themselves – I had almost said fortunately. So what welfare policy issues is it that Jagland wants to move to international bodies? I attend a closer investigation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with great interest and excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e392	After listening to the last part of Frost Sterris' posts, I feel compelled to conclude that in international terms, when it comes to international issues, the Right is the purest social democrats if you compare with some other parties. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a few questions to the representative Frost Sterri. Now it's right to get back to the more global issues in the development policy debate we're going to have. But does not the representative Frost Sterri see the need, if we are to have a more balanced development in the world, to have clearer driving rules for international capital? And could it be that if the developing countries are to come into line with us as far as trade is concerned, we should not just eliminate customs, but perhaps we need to introduce certain compensation schemes for some of the poorest countries in order to make them competitive in international trade? Moreover, there is a high degree of agreement between the Labour Party and the Right in developing North-West Russia and making Russia an important partner and neighbour. However, when the representative Frost Sterri takes up appropriations for Russia, I would like to stress that we may well stop clientising Russia and start treating it on a more equivalent basis. Wouldn't it be more right now to gain a greater degree of commitment to Russia, and not least to North-West Russia? I would like to point out that the Nordic Council is proposing a funding conference on support for North-West Russia, where private stakeholders are also being involved. I want to ask if Frost Sterri and Right will support such a conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e407	I understood at Marit Nybakk's introduction that she really wanted to praise the Right because on important foreign policy issues we actually share views. So I understand that when she wants to give us the name "the purest social democrats," it's meant to be honorary words from her side, and I just get to interpret it that way, although I think it might be more appropriate to consider both the Workers' Party and the Right as real politicians in the world around us. We are responsible, and we are realists based on the position Norway has in this world society. As far as development and trade are concerned, I think there is every reason to congratulate the Government today on the initiative they have now taken. It came a little surprising. Last week, I had an interpellation with the Minister of Assistance just to make trade with the poorest countries easier, in other words to remove the Norwegian customs duty on imports of foreign goods, as the EU has done. Last week, the Minister of Development was relatively little clear about what the Government would do. I understand that they have had a process, but that they have now come out of the mind box. We think that from the Right is very positive, and of course we will support that. I agree with Marit Nybakk when she says that the international capital markets may also need certain regulations. I think we agree there, the question is just: what means must be put in place to bring about the right regulations that do not close out the poorest countries, even from the investments they so badly need?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e416	It's almost so I have to apologize to break into this fierce embrace between the Workers' Party and the Right in foreign policy. I assume that the Right does not have any problems in supporting the wording of the Foreign Minister's statement on the main objectives of Norwegian foreign policy, which is to safeguard Norwegian interests, especially in the neighbourhoods. But we also have a duty to do something beyond this. The duty might be something different in the Right and the Working Party. That's probably where the difference had to be. It might be interesting to test the convergence between the Right and the Workers' Party in foreign policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a fairly clear message in relation to the position of the United States when they now side with the Kyoto agreement. Does the Right Foreign Policy Spokesman agree with the Foreign Minister when he uses clear words and warnings against the American positions, which are actually a violation of the entire agreement, and actually invalidates the entire Kyoto Code?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e423	I think I'll now start in reverse order so I'm sure I'll get the answer that Steensnæs also finally picked up, because I noticed in the previous line that there were so many themes that I just came halfway trying to make comments. It's a little surprising if it's gone, sir. Steensnæs house past that we were already quite early out and gave full support to the Government's commitment to the line that is now being signaled by the United States regarding the Kyoto Protocol. We support the government's commitment, while we also think it is very positive that the EU, with its commitment, has sent a delegation to the United States to talk to American politicians about it. So we fully agree that we have to stand here together and exert pressure against the United States so that we can move on important steps. It should not come as a surprise to Mr. Steensnæs that we on the Right believe that it is important that we maintain our relationship with the surrounding areas. We've put that on the right-hand side over all these years. That means we have a special responsibility here, but of course we also have duties beyond that. That is why this should not be surprising to Mr. Steensnese that we are so concerned about assisting the neighbourhoods of North-West Russia, as we do, and that we also believe that Norway must be a spearhead in the clean-up work represented by nuclear waste. This commitment, and that we might be able to clean up in our neighbourhoods, will also mean enormous for our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e432	I want to follow up on something in the same street that the representative Steensnæs was in, that is, right relationship with the United States. Right is one of the parties that most strongly emphasizes the Norwegian-American ties, as the representative Siri Frost Sterri said. An expression for that very thing is well when the Right is also one of the few parties that have given positive signals in relation to American rocket defense plans. Now there's a president from the Right Sister Party in the Presidential chair in Washington. He has a staggering record of signing death sentences, he stands for a very conservative domestic policy and a self-sufficient line in foreign policy. I would therefore like to ask the representative Frost Sterri: how comfortable is the Right with its political family relationship with the Republicans? And will the Right contribute to criticising the United States for the line that President Bush is now putting on in foreign policy? I am thinking in particular that there could be a cooler relationship between the United States and Russia and China.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e443	It is quite right that we on the Right are very concerned about the Norwegian-American connections and the ties over the Atlantic. Lisbet Ruggtvedt was based on the American rocket shield plans. To that I would like to comment that it is not a question of support or not of support from the Norwegian side. As long as the Americans themselves answer yes if this is technically and economically possible, this becomes a question on our part about how we deal with a given fact. The Americans have made up their minds. However, the Bush administration has changed on the device of the original national rocket shield plans – as planned by the previous administration – and has emphasised that it will also be able to protect European countries. In fact, the Russians' proposal to establish a limited European missile shield can also open up wider cooperation on protection against so-called unreliable states than we might first have imagined when the Americans presented their plans. So the issue of this will lead to new revolutions in the upgrading process, therefore, will not be so relevant in relation to Russia, but it may be relevant in relation to China.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e452	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e455	There were no major surprises in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs about Norwegian foreign policy. It was a thing – get one say – plank driving without the big surprises, as I said, taking place. Perhaps it is what is then manifested in an embrace of the Workers' Party from the Right – or was it the other way around? – in the case of Norwegian foreign policy. Here, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has obviously secured solid support from the Right in all parts of Norwegian foreign policy. At least something has not been said that contradicts such a claim. Let me say, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the main objective of our foreign policy must be to safeguard Norwegian interests, especially in the areas that are closest. So this is basically a principle shared by the Progress Party, but from our side we are probably several more uncertain as to whether we agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that all Norwegian foreign policy today meets this objective. And we are critical to much of the foreign policy being pursued today, obviously unlike the Right. In such a context, the Progress Party is concerned that Norwegian foreign policy is increasingly seeking to involve itself around the world. It is almost like trying to build a brand in the area of conflict management, peace-broking and flag-planting. It may seem as if it is the desire of a small nation to act as a powerful force, which is driving, and that this is what brings this kind of policy forward. But it costs. And what's the state here at home? This might be described in a slightly different way: while the Norwegian House has collapsed, the Workers' Party and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have brought the wrecks from the Norwegian House and built a number of Brustad arches with a Norwegian flag abroad, in most imaginable places. It is also a way of marketing Norway, but with the framework conditions attached to the latter type of construction, I do not think it is very much appreciated. We believe that there is reason to question whether it is in our interest to spend as much resources as it is today, to engage in conflicts across large parts of the world. We do not mean that Norway should not have an active relationship with such themes, but as a small nation, we should probably limit ourselves in some contexts. So as a member of the UN Security Council at the moment, we are able to provide ourselves with ample opportunities to promote our views and work for our interests. But it costs. And the question is, exactly what the chase against getting this place brings us into political situations that are far from desirable for a small nation. So the ambitions can also lead us into a situation that we should rather be ahead of. We are brought into a conflict sphere that perhaps gives us more problems than honor and glory, which seems to be part of the objective. In this context, it may also appear that this position forces us to contribute several Norwegian forces abroad. It seems to be an expression of it when, in the newspaper Tuesday, April 3, this week, it says, "I'm going to have Ola to Congo." What does that mean? Well, that means you're kind of inviting to break the main lines of the Storting, which in the last few years have been trying to force Norwegian efforts out with military forces and observers in few, but concentrated missions. In other words, if you go out, you have to do a job in depth and breadth, which you also have the resources to support and entertain. And I would like to say, in view of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' previous verbal association with the Congo, that I doubt whether the Norwegian flag will be particularly welcome in this area. However, I shall leave it to you. I also doubt whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has any support for this in Stortinget. We have more than enough work and challenges to do in Kosovo, where we have taken on a very important and honorable but also risky mission. And we're going to pay for what this costs. This bill is not fully paid, and we do expect a solid supplementary bill for the management of these operations. I think the Stortinget is ready to take, but then you have to know your stomach and make sure that you concentrate on doing the right and tidy job that you have told you to do. Here it is obvious that the appetite of the foreign minister and the government far exceeds the ability to adjust the intake of food. The EU is a popular issue for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he often cannot hide his ambitions to get Norway to join him. However, the Progress Party hopes that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Labour Party Government are concerned that the majority of the Norwegian people are not particularly enthusiastic about EU membership at the moment. We therefore believe that there must be constant changes over time in Norwegian opinion before we can start to discuss whether Norwegian membership of the EU is a good idea. Until then, and at least the next majority period, it is not at all relevant for the Progress Party to support a Norwegian application for EU membership. The United States, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs made clear in his presentation, is one of the pillars of Norwegian security and foreign policy. For the Progress Party this is also very important, and for us it is necessary to stress that no matter how much we turn towards the rest of the world, we must take care of our relationship with the United States. We believe that the United States remains the foremost guarantor of peace and security in Europe, and consequently also for Norway in our situation. Therefore, it is also strange that the Government is proposing a Norwegian national defence structure that will not even be able, if this is implemented in this house, to ensure an allied support and ensure that it is safe to be able to land in Norway if a situation so requires. It tells us that there may be a need to revise its policies in some areas. And again, it's failing at home, while the ambitions out there are significant. That's the government's dilemma. As far as the United States is concerned, the United States has played and plays an important role in the world community. The United States is the only surviving superpower, at least the only one with a well-developed democracy. The United States is a guarantor of our security and a close partner. It is therefore important, in our opinion, that we show loyalty to the United States and to most questions, for example. through the UN, seeks to find solutions with the United States and other allies, instead of bringing us into a situation where the opposite happens, and the effect is then. It was announced in the Foreign Minister's statement that a comprehensive and wide-ranging strategy for our relationship with the United States was now to be developed, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he saw separately ‘a dynamic process’. It could lead your mind to the fact that the government has not, in fact, had a comprehensive and broad U.S. strategy in its mind. In that case, it will be alarming. I might have thought that there had been more need to revise and adjust the course. Something else I would find quite strange. Some words about Russia. What the situation in Russia will be like in the future is very uncertain. Although we seem to have got a kind of democracy in Russia, there are still a number of exercises and developments before we can compare the Russian regime with what we're used to from the Western world. This we have to take inwards. A few years of relative tranquillity and some sort of stability can unfortunately quickly change to something else, and the Foreign Minister himself said that Russia is ‘a demanding partner’. A demanding partner and a large partner at our border impose certain limitations on what we can do ourselves, and that also gives us a clear reminder of what we have to do. Then we cannot stand up so that we are on the verge of not being able to exercise what is needed to assert Norwegian sovereignty under changing conditions. Having a defence to this effect also helps to secure peace, and our role as a peace guarantor by seeking stability in the north must be more important than running around the world. We know that there are significant challenges and problems in Russia, and we have seen a strong concentration of power through Putin's days. It may be necessary in a Russia that is in disintegration in many areas, but it can also produce a result in the opposite direction, which can bring us into a completely different and far more demanding situation in the future. Then it won't be useful to walk around like the Minister of Defense and hope that there will be peace in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e496	It is a pity that the Progress Party will not be more involved in international crisis management. There are few who have practiced as much at home as the Progress Party, so I guess they could have something to do at international level. However, this active Norwegian foreign policy, which from time to time could get the impression that the Progress Party is behind, delimits itself, as I understand in the representative Røsjorde – with a slight tumultuous right enough – to commit to Kosovo. It's obviously the big and heavy, but then it'll be little after that. I want to bring the discussion to an area where Røssjorde was only indirectly involved. I agree with what he said about what the United States means in security policy, what the United States means to resolve conflicts. Without the United States, there are very many conflicts that have no solution. But there's also another area where we see grey weather, and it's in the field of trade policy. There may be something that might also be a reason why we should look forward to the messages and the distributions that come from the Government on Globalisation and Trade, but also about the United States strategy, because in that area it may be that the United States wants to choose a different route from what we want. In other words, we want a strong international trade organisation, we want a strong UN – and I assume that the Progress Party wants that too. Of course, we want the United States into this as far as possible, and there's a point that those who have power are involved. But the representative Røsjorde and the Progress Party are also seeing the dilemmas we face when we hear a signal about larger American – yes, we were a little confused instead if it is called self-righteousness or self-determination. It is certainly one of the greatest threats we can see, whether the United States should choose a more independent – self-advisory – or arbitrary line that breaks with international organisations, so I hope that the Progress Party's conclusion is that we must have the strong international organisations, the WTO and the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e503	I had a challenge in mastering crisis management in my home country before going out, and that was actually some of what I also said. So we're first going to try to do it at home, and then we're going to say that the inner life of the individual parties probably reminds some people and everyone that there might be a need for crisis management both here and there. Also in Oslo Arbeiderparti, I have registered that there has been a need for crisis management – but that is probably nothing new. So as regards globalisation, trade and free trade. Of course, the Progress Party wants a maximum degree of free trade. We believe that this will be appropriate both for the poor countries and for the rich countries. So there's nothing particularly desirable in such a situation that someone is leading with protectionism, as the United States is doing in a number of areas. And of course, there won't be any counter-representation to make sure that through organized world trade, you get an open trade relationship around. Everyone will have to earn it. So it's the rhetoric in some contexts that will be somewhat different. However, there is no need to bring anyone on a strong collision course, but it is, frankly, sometimes problematic even when, in some contexts, within NATO, in parliamentary committees, a banana war is going on across the Atlantic – and here there are also two more parties. So when it comes to our relationship with the United Nations. Yes, on the part of the Progress Party, we want a strong UN. We've never expressed anything else. But what I've been criticizing is that as a nation, maybe we should be more careful about the problems we're dealing with, and not try to act like a power force in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e512	It was interesting to hear the chair of the Defence Committee in the foreign debate. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party both have quite binding formulations in their principal programmes in terms of the value base. Both parties have formulated an ideological basis on general human principles and a anchoring in Christian fundamental values. I have noticed that every time the Progress Party speaks in foreign policy, the dimensions collapse, in some clear priorities for Norway's own special interests and in transatlantic relations with the United States. We are very little part of the important solidarity work in relation to our development work, our efforts for the poorest countries, our efforts for peace and reconciliation – and we have been confirmed here today how the Progress Party views this – and our fight for human rights, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is directly based on the principle of closeness and administrative responsibility. It might be interesting to challenge the representative Røsjorde on how they get a good connection between the relatively narrow – one-dimensional, I would say – the strategy of the Foreign Policy of the Progress Party and their ideological basis based on Christian fundamental values, where the principle of love and trustworthiness may be the most central.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e518	It's true, as the representative Steensnæs says, that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have programs that are in many ways parallel. This applies within what was pointed out, namely a value based on Christian tradition, and there is no contradiction between human rights issues – we have also stressed it. What might distinguish us in this context is that, on our part, we have a different emphasis on how much our effort should be in relation to the developing world. We have always struggled to allow developing countries to market their goods without customs barriers and other barriers into our country. It has until recently been a fight we have conducted relatively alone. This is now turning around. We think that is positive. We have not at all opposed to giving help to people in distress in connection with disasters, for example. However, we do not want to help force other nations on our often poor solutions, and through it spend more money – at least in relation to other countries – than it is on the basis of. We have a number of unsolved tasks at home, and we should be prepared to help people in distress, for example. disasters and other – the kind of solidarity we stand for, of course – but we do not run around with taxpayers' money to establish and operate businesses in other countries and impose these solutions on us.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e523	I interpret Røsjorde's contributions in relation to the United States as a support to SV's proposal to have a debate on this in the form of a separate communication to Stortinget. So I'd like to make a comment on that. As we have now become aware, the Progress Party no longer has people on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and then it will be a bit national when the leaders of the Defence Committee talk. But I still want to challenge him on an international issue – which he addressed in a line to Steensnæs here a little while ago – and that is the Middle East. The Progress Party has a kind of Stalinist policy. They're holding on to the strongest. The strongest is right, and the one who has something, will get more. It's the Progress Party's policy in a nutshell. So is the Middle East. So there's Israel that's right, and it's the Palestinians that's wrong. It's official Progress Party policy. But now, in fact, the leading partners of the European Union and the Red Earth, the United States, are critical of Israel's behaviour in Palestine and in the Middle East. That's interesting, because it must be complicated for the Progress Party to tackle that the United States is actually criticizing Israel. I would like to have a comment on that from Røssjorde. Then it's like Palestine's occupied area. If it was so that someone came and took the garden from Røssorde, took away what he had there, let it flat and built up something as own, wouldn't he then react? That's what happens now in the Middle East. Israel comes and takes land that is not theirs, and builds something new on occupied land. Is this a policy that Røssorde can defend, or will he, as SV, try to help with peacekeeping forces, just to dampen the conflict? What is his solution to the Palestine question, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e532	I am not quite sure which garden it was now aimed for.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e537	Not Hagen!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e542	So that's not what was the basis. It was my personal garden. I'm also about to dispose of my garden, to say it this way, and I'll be fine with a balcony box. Let me answer something more serious about the questions. The first question was related to the SV proposal. I see no reason to support that proposal, because – as I also said in my post – I would be surprised if not every government had an ongoing assessment of the strategy in relation to a partner as important as the United States. So I don't see any reason to support this, because it would kind of be overfocusing on the United States. I have seen it more so that what you do – and I hope that’s what you’ve warned you to do – is to review it as per. Today is where it is. And that's something that's formed in the form of the ongoing debate. And I see no reason for us here in Norway to have our own big and wide debate on our relationship with the United States. I thought that was reasonably well anchored. Something else would be alarming. So the conflict between Israel and Palestine. As I said in my post, it's always so that in a conflict there are two parties. What I focused on was the one-sided black paint that has always been about Israel's politics and Israel's right to exist as a state. When the Palestinian self-government repeatedly comes into a negative light because of widespread corruption and violations of human rights, little is claimed. That's what you're trying to forget. When something happens on the part of Israel, you focus on it with all possible means. It's a skepticism that we in the Progress Party disagree with. How long it takes to find a solution, I don't think anyone knows the answer. We're going to contribute in our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e551	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e554	The statement presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 20 March covers a very broad field of action: Norway's relationship with the EU, the situation in the Balkans, the assessment of the new administration of the United States, our relationship with Russia and Norway's role as a member of the Security Council. A statement that embraces so widely would normally call for a great deal of media interest. Therefore, it was interesting to record that it was what the foreign minister said after the presentation, which received the most attention — and with good reason. In an improvised press letter in the Vandrehallen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew a conclusion on the EU issue that he did not find any reason to comment on. But when Thorbjørn Jagland, after the statement, says to the press that it may be relevant to send a Norwegian application for membership already in 2002–2003, yes, of course our foreign minister must be taken seriously. The party leader and foreign minister Thorbjørn Jagland made clear after his statement, was clearly telling the Norwegian people that an application for membership can be sent early in the next majority period, and that the question, of course, also becomes an important topic in the forthcoming election campaign. So we know that. The mention of Norway’s relationship with the EU was otherwise marked by the rhetoric we recognise from the European Communication. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is obviously concerned that Norway should be ‘parked on the sideline of European policy’. Sometimes I have the feeling that the government reveals an unnecessarily weak self-image of Norway as an actor in the international arena. Well, Norway is a small country in the world, but we don't have to make ourselves less important than we are. On 7 January this year, Swedish Prime Minister Göran Persson was interviewed at Dagsrevyen. He did not give the impression that Norway is being marginalised. On the contrary. He showed, among other things: that Norway was in the Security Council and had a leading role in Kosovo, and he continued: «Norway is located in Columbia, Norway is located in Sri Lanka. Norway is an active party in operating in the Burma case. So that wherever we look around the world there is Norwegian activism based on a long political tradition and solidarity." About his own country, EU country Sweden, he said that in his best hours Sweden also has the kind of progress that Norway – but only in its best times. The same defensive position also marks the government with regard to the consequences for Norway of the EU enlargement. EU enlargement means that the EEA will also be enlarged and compensation negotiations will be held in this context. However, why does the Government strongly suggest that Article 24 of the WTO Agreement states that Norway’s trading conditions ‘largely’, as it is called, should not be exacerbated as a result of the entry into the EU of new countries with which Norway has bilateral agreements. In any case, it cannot serve Norway’s best interests to advance a negative outcome of the forthcoming negotiations with the EU. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that enlargement of the EU will lead to an even greater ‘understanding of the decisions of others’ without having sufficient influence. But it is this democratic deficit that already characterises the EEA Agreement. And the agreement also has a development clause which means that this democratic deficit should be extended to ever-increasing sectors. The new administration in the United States seems to represent a challenging challenge for US partners. In the course of his short term of government, President George W. Bush has the power to mark a new American policy in several areas, a new orientation which will undoubtedly have its mark on international policy in the years to come. The US President's announced boycott of the Kyoto agreement represents a serious setback in international cooperation on climate policy. It's dramatic when the leader of a major act, who is responsible for the emissions of approx. 1⁄4 of the world's total greenhouse gas, warns that the United States will not feel committed to the Kyoto agreement. It is commendable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated in clear terms that this is a pattern of action that the international community cannot accept. President Bush has also identified a new strategy in terms of national missile defence plans, NMD, a shield against long-range missiles. Realising these plans could, in the worst case, jeopardise the ABM agreement, which would lead to a serious setback in the disarmament process and also exacerbate relations with Russia and China. Although some NATO countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany and Denmark, have softened their previous critical views on US plans, the Centre Party believes that Norway must continue to see it as a task within NATO to work to ensure that the missile defence plans are not put to work. US alerted arms sales to Taiwan and the use of veto in the Security Council to prevent the deployment of UN observers in conflict areas in the Middle East are also of concern. That Norway, as a Security Council member, chose to give up the same vote, has so far no convincing reason, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to comment on this matter in his statement later today. There is no doubt that in the bilateral conditions in the northern regions, Norway is facing an increasingly self-conscious Russia. Norway and Russia have a large and shared responsibility for the management of the rich fishing resources in the north. Trustful cooperation, both in the management of fisheries and in the management of the serious environmental threats, is essential for the economic development of the northern regions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the full cooperation potential can only be triggered once you have found a solution to the question of demarcation. Against this background, it would be of interest if the Minister of Foreign Affairs could say something about what the status is today, among other things. the sharing-line negotiations with Russia with regard to the Barents Sea. In a separate debate, the Storting has discussed Norway's role as a member of the Security Council, with a particular focus on our leadership of the Sanctions Committee for Iraq. I assume that a broad majority in the United Kingdom share the Secretary of State's recognition that 'the sanctions against Iraq do not work as intended and that they are mature for change'. Yes, many would say that the time for change is overripe. The statement made it clear that Norway has already taken the first important steps in terms of changes to the sanctioning regime. Although there is no easy balance to develop a sanctions policy that can both improve the humanitarian situation of the civilian population in Iraq, while maintaining the pressure against Saddam Hussein, the Norwegian initiative has created expectations that it will be possible to facilitate the situation of the heavily tried and tested civilian population in Iraq. Since the Foreign Minister made his statement, there has been an interesting development in the situation in the former Yugoslavia. The arrest of former President Slobodan Milosevic represents a new important step towards stabilisation of the situation in the Balkans. There is reason to hope and believe that the arrest of Milosevic is the first step on a path that has the war criminal court in The Hague as an end station. Today, Norway is taking over the leadership of the KFOR forces in Kosovo. The fact that Norway has been given this responsibility clearly shows that our country has confidence as a responsible and also results-oriented actor in the international arena. Let's not forget that.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e603	The representative Jakobsen thinks that the government, and obviously Norway, is plagued by an unnecessarily weak self-image. When it comes to the perception of Norway and the Nordics in the outside world, I would very much like to go right where he has the impression that Norway appears with a low self-esteem in the world. There is not always one impression when referring to Norway. But on the other hand, Jacobsen hopes so intensely that there will be a proposal for an EU application in a few years, that I do not fully know what is left, when he really inside knows that it does not happen, because we are going into a period where we are going, as it is called, and which is the starting point of the big news of European policy, discuss the changes around us, and then we will draw conclusions when the changes happen. Nobody thinks the extension, for example is in place for the next two years. So what is the background for this constant repetition, I don't know. It might be interesting to hear about the Central Party as actively as the Christian People's Party is about Norwegian support for the EU enlargement. There is a form of solidarity in Europe that could perhaps help to give the impression that Norway is a participant as much as an actor who claims to be entitled. I believe that the Central Party will subsequently be an active supporter for both economic and other contributions from Norway to the EU enlargement in the light of what former Prime Minister Bondevik said, because this will contribute to stability and development in Europe. Then I find out that Mr. The enthusiast Jakobsen now refers to Article 24 of the WTO, which can help Norway when it does. This is a natural follow-up to the many enthusiastic connections to the WTO system that we have heard from the Central Party in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e614	With regard to self-image, I specifically mentioned the fact that our foreign minister seems to be concerned that Norway is being parked on the sideline of European policy, which I believe provides a situational description that is not correct. I would also like to mention the fact that, when the Foreign Minister is about to advance problems and a negative outcome when we are about to go to compensation negotiations in connection with the enlargement of the European Union, I also think that this is a very defensive and unnecessarily negative starting point. Then Blankenborg was concerned about what I mentioned about the EU case and a possible EU application. I assume that the representative of Blankenborg understands that the parties in Stortinget take it seriously when the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs has clearly stated that it may be relevant to submit an application already in 2002-2003. I registered that Blankenborg was challenged by SV earlier today, and I record that Blankenborg did not see any reason to dement or weaken the image that was created in the cold water by the statement that was made in Stortinget on 20 March. Finally, what was involved in the enlargement of the European Union: the attitude of the centre party here is completely crystal clear. We assume that in the case of countries which, through the democratic process, express their desire to join the European Union, we in the Central Party want to help them to have the best possible agreement with the European Union. That's the Central Party's attitude to this question. I assume that Blankenborg does not believe that this is a particularly eye-catching attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e623	Spring is also the national meeting of the political parties. I have come to realize that the Central Party has already left it behind and has adopted a programme for a new expansion period. I have received a draft programme, but I do not know the result. The draft programme includes: the centre lot will maintain the protection of imports of agricultural products in order to prevent the purchase of food from the mouth of the poor and to minimise transport. I'm a little curious about what was the result of the Central Party national meeting, not least because Jacobsen's posts in the interpellation debate last week could give the impression that this point had survived the national meeting. In other words, I am very curious about the views of the Central Party on the happy announcement that the Government came today, to remove import restrictions on all goods, except weapons, from the poorest developing countries. I noticed that the Christian People's Party commented on this and called it a sensible policy. I'm just wondering if the Center Party also shares that analysis from the Christian People's Party, or whether it's such that this topic blends into the range of important issues that divide the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e631	In the interpellation debate now referred to by Siri Frost Sterri, I expressed a positive attitude on behalf of the Centre Party to extend the MUL imports that we have today to several countries and to several types of goods. What was at the same time underlined by my side, and which was well behind the first part of the representative Siri Frost Sterris's line, was that on the basis of the last weeks, not to say the last months' development, it seems that many parties in the Storting still believe that food has to be considered as other goods, and that one does not see that this with food in relation to disease and other things is in a very special situation. I think it is positive that Norway expands the framework for MUL imports, as announced today, and as the Central Party will come to support, but it is also in this clear indication that we need security clauses, as we have today in the EEA Agreement and in the veterinary agreement. I also registered what was said about the case in the evening post today, where Development Minister Sydnes made it clear that safety valves would be built in here, especially related to developments that could lead to dramatic changes in the market situation. Within this framework, the Central Party will of course support the continued provision of access and increased access to the Norwegian market to LDCs.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e642	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e645	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that he saw it as his task to combine the interest-based and moral dimension of Norwegian foreign policy. Unfortunately, we sometimes see that this combination ends up as the double moral dimension of Norwegian foreign policy. The most glaring example of Norwegian double standards has been found in the revelations that Norwegian oil money is being invested in landmine production. Norway has gone into the brink of bans on landmines, but we still do not go off the road to making money on landmine production. However, there are also other examples of double standards in our international behaviour: Norway is gliding with the environmental tabs, but is itself a climate shift by not taking on the national responsibility we should have for reducing our CO2 emissions. Norway is, at one moment, clear opponents of nuclear weapons, so to speak, declaring that nuclear weapons are necessary parts of NATO's defences. The double moral dimension in Norwegian foreign policy is that SV believes we should do without. Norway could also be more consistent in our policy of criticising human rights violations. SV has previously pointed out that we should have a clearer line, among other things. in the case of criticism of Turkey. The human rights situation in Turkey should exclude Norway from selling defence equipment to the country in any way. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced a US strategy in his presentation. Clearly, there is a need to clarify Norwegian strategy in relation to the United States at the beginning of a new presidential period, and that with a president who, after 100 days, has moved far more than SV. What we've looked at now by foreign policy from President Bush's side, concerns SV. It is alarming when it is announced that the Bush administration has initiated a process to reduce cooperation with Russia. Bush seems to want to tighten up and cool policy in relation to its predecessors in a number of areas. We've seen it in the last few days in relation to China, and it's signaled another tone to North Korea. Bush has also given a clear signal for large-scale operation on the construction of a comprehensive missile defense. It's hopefully a substatement when the Foreign Minister says that the Government still has a number of critical questions to American plans to develop a rocket defense. On the SV side, we believe it is absolutely necessary to express ourselves in much clearer order on these plans. It's irresponsible of the United States to want to trump through its missile defense, cost what it costs not only in dollars, but also in terms of political costs. Although there is doubt that such a missile defense will ever be able to be realized technically, and this in which case lies many years ahead, we already see the political costs in terms of a cooler relationship between East and West, and we have reason to fear a new armament spiral. With our geographical position, we have a very high interest in not cooling this relationship further. The Minister of Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on relations with Russia in his presentation, and showed that we have a complex relationship with Russia. There is no doubt that it would have a positive impact on our relationship with Russia if Norway clearly distanced itself from the US missile defence plans. Another feature of the Bush administration that is upsetting us is the disclaimer that the United States is now doing in relation to the climate problems. It is both embarrassing and dangerous when Bush has doubts about the greenhouse effect and the relationship between CO2 and the greenhouse effect. The US stances on the Kyoto Protocol give a clear signal that the United States intends to be marine enough, continue to use a disproportionately large proportion of the earth's total resources and contribute similarly much to global environmental problems. Future living conditions for millions of people depend on the return of climate change, and the United States understands that their discharge cannot be accepted. The Norwegian US strategy must involve Norway acting as a critical ally. We have to dry out, challenge the United States and criticize the United States. Without the courage to challenge the United States, Norway will have a puzzled role in the UN Security Council. What we've seen so far, doesn't just sound good in that way. Regardless of how the various parties in this Chamber want Norway to deal with the United States, we can agree that this relationship is important, and SV will therefore propose that the Government submit its US strategy for treatment in the United States, as we have been presented with European policy. A short time ago, the U.S. put veto down for the first time in four years in the United Nations Security Council in order to send unarmed observers to the Middle East. SV believes that Norway should adopt its view of this by voting in favour of the resolution in question. It undermines the UN and the work of creating an international legal order that the Security Council does not act consistently, but allows some countries to escape human rights violations, as we believe Israel is allowed to do. In the very critical situation in the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians, it was striking that the Foreign Minister did not spend more time in the Middle East in the presentation. It was also striking that the sentences he used on this topic were used to explain why the Government has not more clearly criticised Israeli violence. The Minister of Foreign Affairs claimed that Norway in the United Nations has taken a clear distance from excessive violence. Well and well, but it has been noted as much that Norway has not criticised — as for example. Norway abstained in October from voting for a resolution criticising Israel’s use of violence in the General Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that one cannot condemn peace in the Middle East. That's right, of course. But just as little as peace can be built by condemnation, peace can be built by a silent acceptance of Israel's violence and occupation. Nor can peace be built by a negotiator of Palestinian rights. Norway has placed great emphasis on the role that facilitates the peace process. SV believes that the time has come for a clearer Middle East policy based on human rights, international humanitarian law and the rights established by the UN through a number of resolutions. It is very regrettable that the United Nations has been completely sidelined in the Middle East, and I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs what is the alternative to a major UN exposure to curb violence. What does the Government think should be done, and what initiatives will Norway take to try again to get the United Nations to play a role? At the time that Norway has been sitting as a member of the Security Council, the agenda has been marked by the situation in Iraq. The government has finally admitted that the sanctions against Iraq have failed, and that they are suffering unfairly. I recall that in the debate on the Foreign Minister's statement to the Stortinget last November, the Foreign Minister claimed that: ‘to date, there are no restrictions on the purchase of food, medicine, equipment for education, agriculture and water supply to Iraq’. After this, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also realized that this was not the case, but that a number of products have been detained for unsustainable reasons. There is reason to have a certain hope that there will now be a positive development in Iraq policy, but there remains to be seen what changes will come about and what significance these changes will have. In the Security Council, Norway must also ask the basic question of financial penalties is the way to go both in the case of Iraq and in a number of other cases. The question is whether financial penalties do not primarily help those who introduce them, because we feel that we are thus really fighting for justice. Is it possible that there is more contact that could lead to the launch of necessary political processes in countries that break international rules and oppress their own population? As far as European policy is concerned, the Stortinget is given ample opportunity to debate it in the context of the discussion of the European Communication. Let me just say that it would be an advantage if the foreign minister for the future chose to say about the same thing in here in the hall, as he says to the press in the hiking hall. It would also be an advantage if the Government were better consulted so that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree when it might be appropriate to promote a Norwegian EU application. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that he would return to Stortinget before the summer to explain the status of the WTO negotiations and the preparations for the Qatar Ministerial Conference. At that time, Stortinget will also have the opportunity to take up the positions Norway should take. Let me just say that, on the SV side, we assume that the Government positions Norway in such a way in these negotiations that we support the interests of the poor countries, and that we actively contribute to curbing a trend where there is pressure for increased competitive outsourcing and privatisation in the public sector. I refer to the proposal SV has submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e706	Lisbet Ruggtvedt has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e711	On different occasions, SV has called for a levy on trade and investment in developing countries. They have called this a Tobin tax, based on the proposer, the Nobel Prize winner James Tobin. It is our view that such a tax will only help to weaken the weakest in international trade in advance. The rich countries will always receive money regardless of fees. It is the small and poor countries that depend on getting investment from outside. Now it also has the interesting fact that James Tobin himself has distanced himself from the proposal. He said recently: ‘I don’t want them to use my name, and the name Tobin tax, to connect me to their program. I am not a member of Attac, and I do not support Attac." I have two questions for the representative. First, what does she have of commenting on James Tobin's investigation? He has also elaborated his views in a longer article in US newspapers, among others. The New York Times. That's my first question. The second question is, what are the signs that such a concept of an international tax that slows down currency trading is being endorsed globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e721	Let me first talk on behalf of Tobin. I don't think that's right, as the representative Foss says, that Tobin has distanced himself from his proposal for an international tax on currency trading. What he didn't want is to be a front figure for the Attac movement, and we have to accept that. But he still stands on the proposal that it would be beneficial to get a fee to dampen the fluctuations resulting from trade in currency. It was a very funny presentation that this was a proposal that would primarily affect the developing countries. This is, of course, a proposal that will primarily dampen the violent fluctuations that one is now experiencing from the very extensive trade in currency. And it will be in the best interests of countries with particularly vulnerable economies to receive such a currency tax. Now it's like every time Right is talking about aid policy or u-country, a bit of a flurry in your mouth, because regardless of whether the Right is in favour of freer trade, whether the Right is in favour of currency tax, etc., then you don't get past the fact that the Right is among the parties that are willing to swing the ax strongly over the aid budget. This is why the Right has very little credibility in defending the interests of the developing world. Of course, with regard to the possibility of adopting a Tobin tax, it's very difficult to get all the countries involved. If it is to have a real effect, one should have with all countries. But it's a good start to start discussing this, and I think it's good that we've got such a broad agreement in Norway with this proposal that we've got. I also understand that there is a great deal of interest in this proposal in the European Union. We can also look at the possibility to start by introducing the tax in some regions and see if it can have any effect. But first and foremost, it would have an effect if all countries introduced it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e732	Let me first say that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and SV on issues such as taxes on currency transactions and driving rules for international capital. But I have a few other questions for the representative, Rangtvedt. The first is whether SV agrees with the Norwegian enlargement strategy in terms of support for those candidate countries that are currently trying to qualify for EU membership. Does the SV agree that it is important for Norway to provide financial assistance, to contribute to their not only economic qualification, but that they may also qualify in other areas, such as building a welfare state, equality, environmental policy, etc.? Does SV agree with that enlargement strategy? So the representative Rugtved talked about sanctions. I have a more general question about penalties. Is SV in principle against the use of sanctions? We've had a lot of penalties over the years, someone's been successful and has done it right, and someone hasn't done it right. The sanctions against South Africa were probably the most successful we've had, while there are others who may not have hit where they were going. Is it the case that SV is against all kinds of penalties? Or does SV think that we should focus more on penalties, and look at penalties in relation to the state of the country at any time against which there is a question of imposing penalties?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e741	With regard to the EU enlargement plans, I do not see that it is primarily a question of what we do not think in SV or in Norway. It is primarily a relationship between the candidate countries and the EU. There must also be a relationship between the peoples of the candidate countries and the EU. When it comes to this issue, we cannot be quite sure that there can be no EU opponents in the candidate countries as well. So I'll put myself a little bit on hold for this and for example. See the Norwegian Action Plan, which provides for Norway to be very strongly involved in enlargement. But as far as the objectives are concerned, we are in complete agreement. Norway should of course contribute to economic growth and stability in the east. Of course, we will contribute to the development of welfare societies and the development of democracies in the east. These are very important problems, and we would very much like to be involved in prioritizing those problems. Here, however, there is also a relationship between Norway and the countries of the former Eastern bloc, and this need not necessarily be linked to the EU. Of course, in terms of penalties, we are not opposed to all kinds of penalties. What we're saying is that the broad sanctions, which are meant to affect entire populations, we have to reconsider. We see that both in relation to Iraq and in relation to Serbia, they seem to be working incorrectly, because the sanctions lead to an increase in the disintegration of the regime rather than weakening it, and that it strikes unfairly in relation to the civilian population. So what we have to get is pointed penalties. We need to have sanctions that primarily affect political elites, we need to have arms embargo where relevant, and we need to look at the possibilities of freezing finances where relevant. So there's no question about being against all kinds of penalties. We need to develop a targeted and effective sanctioning tool. But in addition, we have to ask ourselves the basic question: is there less contact or more contact that helps when some countries behave unsocially, to say that, and violates international law? Occasionally, increased trade and increased contact may be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e748	I am recording that the representative Rangtvedt believes that when Tobin does not want his name attached to Attac, it has nothing to do with the Tobin tax. He also asked that his name be simply not linked to this fee. If there's no point in the charge here, I think we're in each of our worlds. I understand that the representative Rugtvedt also finds it unpleasant to discuss relations with the developing countries with representatives who are at a somewhat lower level of Norwegian u-help. But then you don't have much to discuss with in the world, then you can basically keep the discussion in the Nordic region, and barely that. But I choose to ignore that as an expression for something completely different. But what I wanted to address was the comment that it was funny that an international currency tax was going to hit the developing countries. I can't believe it would be so hard to understand. The rich countries have enough capital. The rich countries have capital both for trade and for investment in their own territory. The countries that in recent years have attracted the most capital from other areas, from other countries and from other regions are just developing economies. Of course, a levy on such investments, which require currency transactions, will affect those countries with poor capital within their own borders. There should be no very advanced reasoning. But I register that SV has two variants of this. Either the levy should be so small that it does not really lead to major changes, so that it only leads to certain incomes, if assumed. The second possibility is that the charge is so high that it actually leads to smaller foreign exchange flows across borders. The new answer in the representative Rangtvedt was that she also agreed that this could be tested regionally. I challenge the representative to give a small assessment of what it will be like for the regions that would try it out in relation to trade with others, and whether she has heard some rumors that there are regions that are planning something like this. Very familiar, no one goes on such suicidal thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e755	In the case of Mr. James Tobin again, I have not realized that he has drawn his suggestion. And that proposal states that in order to mitigate the adverse effects of extensive currency trading and speculation on currency, a levy should be introduced. Nor can I understand that it is so difficult to understand that the developing countries are not particularly vulnerable to these fluctuations as widespread currency speculation leads to. From the point of view of the SV, poor countries are particularly vulnerable to the resulting adverse effects. It's not very many years since we saw the Asia crisis, which was a rash of that kind of speculation, and in the papers it could look like a strange game of papers. However, a concrete effect was e.g. increased child labour in Cambodia and Laos, and increased the number of street children in the poor countries of Asia. We saw quite concrete social impacts of speculation economy. I want to challenge the Right to ask: what is the alternative to trying to work out measures to limit the free flow of capital that currently has quite undeniable adverse effects? It is not unpleasant to discuss assistance with the Right. On the contrary, it is positive that we have a debate on aid. What unduly causes a certain discomfort is when the Right later believes that one can compensate for cuts in aid of increased trade. It's not going to work either. I would also challenge the Right to think a few times that there is nothing that promotes economic growth better than a rate of massive education, a rate of massive democracy development and a rate of massive health. This is why there is a close link between the aid budget and the efforts to achieve economic growth, and it cannot be compensated by the fact that we neither cut out thoughts about international taxes nor increase free trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e768	It's not very original to claim that the world is getting smaller and smaller. But it is a fact that the development of society, the development of communications and the development of knowledge make us partly and partly realize that we are becoming more and more dependent on each other in the world society. In a world marked by globalisation and rapid economic and technological change, what should be included in the concept of Norwegian foreign policy is expanded. Aspects that were previously considered to be more purely national issues, or issues of cooperation in a more narrow area, need to be increasingly addressed internationally. At the same time, there is a clear point not to underestimate the fact that globalisation also brings new challenges and can create new problems. But this is not a reason to work towards development that we are witnessing; rather, it is a driving force in the continuous effort to identify and highlight challenges that need to be met. It is important to increase our knowledge of problems and possible negative aspects of globalisation. I would suggest that the Government should perhaps appoint a selection with a view to addressing a broad range of issues that are just related to aspects of globalisation. It will also apply to the importance of globalisation for social and cultural conditions both in our own country and in other countries and regions. Not least, scarcity of resources and the struggle for them will become more and more pressing in the future. These problems can only be solved internationally and jointly. Resource scarcity in various forms is precisely the basis for a good part of today’s conflicts and will be so in the future. In many areas, in particular, the scarcity of water resources is present. It is appropriate to consider whether this is a field which must be the subject of a concerted effort towards a Convention and whether Norway should take the initiative to do so. The development we are witnessing, and part of it, makes multilateral work increasingly topical. We're getting a genuine world community that demands international cooperation between the many. The greatest challenge of our time is to create a Community sense of diversity. Not least in this perspective, the US signals on the rejection of the Kyoto agreement give great cause for concern. On the Norwegian side, the government must clearly highlight the unacceptable situation in which the world's largest and strongest economy requires to escape despite all the modest requirements contained in the Kyoto Protocol. The more important it becomes that Norway shows that we are taking Kyoto requirements seriously and that it is fully possible to integrate them into a modern market economy. The new focus on multilateral work must also be used to strengthen the UN system. The UN is the only global organisation we have, and it will play an increasingly central role. It is important that Norway actively contributes to improving the United Nations situation, not least in relation to the financial problems the organisation is struggling with. It will be hollow to promote the excellence of the United Nations unless the basis for the organisation's work is taken seriously. This must be a very central part of the work of the Norwegian Foreign Service today as part of Norway’s membership of the Security Council. In our neighbourhoods too, there are many challenges that can only be solved through international cooperation. There will be significant progress if a greater proportion of environmental problems are raised in the Nordic area of cooperation and up against the EU's likely efforts in the light of the desire to strengthen the northern dimension of the EU. With the United Nations, we can achieve far more effective measures in relation to common environmental problems. Norway must continue and intensify its role as an active driver and actor in relation to Barents cooperation. The EU's increased involvement in the area must be used to bring new important steps in the right direction. The time has come to raise the major environmental problems in North-West Russia as the most important challenge. The environmental challenges in this area are so great that priority and concentrated efforts are urgently needed. Not least the relatively recent plans for the transport of nuclear waste on ships along the Norwegian coast show the importance of an active and offensive tone to both Russia and any exporting country. At the same time, Norway must protest loudly against the British nuclear activity at the Sellafield plant. It is very worrying that it is now highly unclear whether there will be a rapid reduction in radioactive emissions. After pressure from the Left, the Prime Minister has confirmed that he will take this matter up with his British colleague. It is important that this happens quickly before the UK Government decides on the proposal to postpone the reduction. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is entitled to have Norway’s form of EU membership require considerable activity to influence EU processes and decisions. It is not only important to be ahead of each other, but to work in a targeted and creative way through different channels. The role of large business organisations is also to play in this work towards the EU. In addition, it is gratifying to note that Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities have a rapidly increasing activity towards EU bodies. Development is natural, as a result of the EU's own development and policy in relation to regional and local conditions. I see it as a matter of course that this work is also supported by what the central authorities are doing to the EU. Norway must actively contribute to increasing the Western countries’ support for economic development and distribution in the former Soviet republics and Eastern European countries. Contributing to democratisation efforts without assisting economic development can lead to a fictitious democratic political system. We know that social inequalities and imbalance in access to resources both between countries and between peoples create and perpetuate an equal number of conflicts in these areas. Nor is it possible to assume that the market economy cannot be introduced and exist in these countries without parallel resolution of the significant social and environmental problems and the development of democracy while liberalising the economy. Increased industrial exposure in several of these countries suggests that we are following up with increased social, economic, cultural and environmental cooperation. Social and economic development, together with democratisation, are the most important instruments of peace. Global economic liberalisation requires democratisation and support measures in various areas. By contributing to the construction of civil society, we can ensure stability and balance. Disengagement and disarmament are no longer central concepts, either in the speech of the Minister of Foreign Affairs or in the debate we have had here today. There may be reason to continue to focus on issues related to detoxification and disarmament, because these are very relevant issues in large parts of the world. We are still in the situation that large parts of the world's resources are involved in arms development and in weapons creation and are used in a way that does not bring the world forward. I want to remind you once again that we still have significant arsenals of nuclear weapons in the world, and that it must be a goal to reduce them, and preferably get them settled. In this context, I would like to stress that not least those countries that do not have nuclear weapons have their clear interests in these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e808	The debate here today has shown that there is a broad consensus on the lines that the Government has drawn up – and that I presented in my presentation – which was reflected, not least, by the intervention of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. There is also a large majority behind our approach to Europe, keeping the issue of possible future membership of the EU outside the debate. I will now limit myself to answering some questions and commenting on some of the issues raised in the debate. First to the EU question: Johan J. Jakobsen said that, after my presentation, I had said that it might be relevant to send an application already in 2002-2003. Kristin Halvorsen said that I had signaled a much earlier EU request than previously signaled. This is not the basis for what I said in the hiking hall afterwards. I stand here with what was sent in the most important newspapers and news agencies. For example, the Evening Post wrote that I felt that a review of a membership application to the EU should be carried out ‘when enlargements have started well in 2002-2003’. That's what I expressed. An application cannot be made at the same time in 2002-2003. It will take a long time — several years — to submit an application, if necessary, after the evaluation of that question has been started. This is in line with the National Labour Party's decision that we should go in favour, namely that when the first membership agreements are in place, we should start an assessment of what Norway would do. What that assessment turns out to be, it can't happen until after a long process here at home. And at least an application can't be made until the end of the next growing-up period. There is no reason to claim anything else in relation to what I said out in the hiking hall, and I have to ask that if you have a basis for making such a statement, you have to make those quotes. If not, I would ask that the debate be conducted with a minimum of honesty. It's nothing but what we said at the National Labour Party meeting, which I expressed here. There is a big difference between saying to start an assessment of this issue when the membership agreements exist around 2002–03 and to submit an application. We know from previous processes that you can't send an application at the same time you start an assessment. It takes several years between the start of the evaluation and, if appropriate, the submission of an application. If you talk about referendum, you know that at least it can't come at the time when you send an application. First of all you have to negotiate, then you have to have the debate here in Stortinget, then you have to have the debate in the people, and then you can have a referendum. If you put what I said out in the hiking hall here, in another way, I have to say that that's because you want to put it out in another way, not because that's a real basis for what I actually said. Johan J. Jakobsen asked if there is anything new in the part-line negotiations with Russia. I can't say it is. There are still questions about technical calculation methods to draw this divider line, but one cannot say that it is something crucial new. Hans J. Røsjorde said that the Norwegian defence structure to which the Government refers will not even ensure allied support. I almost have to ask back: where did you get this? When NATO's Secretary-General was here in the country for a short time, he said that what we're adding is in line with what NATO wants. How, then, can it be connected that NATO cannot get us to the rescue when we add up to a defence structure that NATO actually wants? Siri Frost Sterri said that there is created uncertainty about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has given proper priority to nuclear safety work. There has been such an evaluation. We have followed the criticism that has come. Among other things, we have put in more staff to ensure that the projects are better than they have clearly been in the past. She also said that there has not been enough money for the Eastern European programme. It is true that the Right went into budgetary cooperation with the centre parties where this was dramatically cut. But one of the first things that the new government actually did was to increase these appropriations significantly on the current year's budget. Lisbet Rugtvedt said it is regrettable that Norwegian oil money is invested in land mines. I can agree with that. That's why we've started a work to see if you can make sure this in a better way. I do not think it is good to invest this money so that it can undermine completely fundamental objectives in Norwegian foreign policy. Lisbet Rugtvedt also said that there is a need for clear lines in Norwegian Middle East policy. There are three fundamental issues in Norwegian foreign policy that lie at the root, and as I think it is a little strange that Rangtvedt did not mention himself. The first is the 1948 split plan, where Israel was established and is entitled to security. The second is Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338, which state that the West Bank and Gaza, which Israel is occupying today, are just occupied areas, including East Jerusalem. Norway has always done so. And then it's the Oslo Agreement, which means that the two parties have committed themselves to negotiating a solution to these questions. That is what we have been following all along, and that is also the basis for us to believe that the Middle East question must have an impartial attitude in such a way as to impose on both parties the same obligations, namely what they have signed up to in the Oslo Agreement, that they should negotiate a solution. And the Oslo Agreement also refers to Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. That was also the basis for our vote in the Security Council – as Johan J. Jakobsen asked me to say something about – now that we have recently, among other things. discussed the issue of UN observation. The reason why we abstained was this: there was a resolution that could not be accepted by both parties and that the Americans could not accept either. We therefore worked for a compromise that we hoped everyone could accept. When that was not the case, we did not find ourselves able to vote for the resolution originally tabled, which we did not think was good enough either. We could not then vote for something that we originally did not think was good enough. It's now its case. Another important reason is that it is fundamental for Norwegian United Nations policy that there must be an agreement on a United Nations observation. The UN has never outsourced observers without both parties to a conflict being its follower and will support such an observation. It can be done, among other things: the safety of the observers to be deployed. And I think it's strange that SV now believes that we should support a resolution and an observation that would not really have a UN mandate. I also note that the Palestinians go back to Norway's compromise proposal and will work to get it through in the Security Council, unanimously or without the use of veto from some of the permanent members of the Security Council. Just in the end, because the string exchange after Steensnæs’ posts provided the basis for this: Steensnæs said he sees Norway’s foreign policy in a more global context than I do. What I pointed out in my presentation was that if we're going to have some global influence, we have to deal with the big players, and we have to be willing to have a strategy to cooperate with them. This is particularly true of the United States, the EU and Russia. And as far as the European Union is concerned, I think it is a little strange that we do not now see the EU almost systematically promoting the views of the majority in this Chamber. I'm thinking about the Kyoto agreement, I'm thinking about Middle East policy, I'm thinking about governance of global market forces, and I'm thinking not least about the Balkans. And it's worth noting one thing: after my presentation, something very important has happened, namely that the EU High Representative and NATO Secretary-General went to Macedonia together to have talks with the leaders there. It is a new step towards a common European defence and security policy. And that's the big call for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e848	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e851	Let me first express full support for the strategy and policy of the Government in the Middle East. It is a difficult balance, and it is a difficult conflict. Norway can still play an facilitating role that is valuable to the parties. We've recorded that. But it requires a balance in the way that you do it. I believe that the government here has exercised the necessary discretion to remain able to play an important role in that context. When the new government joined, it made an administrative change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is quite up to the Government to decide. A found to want to move the work of human rights from the then Minister of Human Rights to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that it became his portfolio. We had then expected that there would be a further reinforcement and underline of the Government's commitment in this area. I have to confess that after this has also been requested in Stortinget, it has happened little. In any case, the information has been economical externally, and the foreign minister’s statement did not include this either. I use the opportunity again to ask what is happening in the follow-up to the important MR dialogues that were launched under the previous government, where Norway actually had a driving role and was able to do important work. Finally, there is consensus in Norwegian policy, and there is a great deal that can be agreed in the Stortinget on key broad lines of foreign policy. But when the government strives to formulate it so that a main objective of our foreign policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests primarily in our neighbourhoods, and then there is an obligation to do something for others, does not the Foreign Minister see that here he can ally himself with forces that will cut the Government off from pursuing a policy in the global perspective that he here intended to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e860	I have to answer no to the last question here, I don't. When I say that we have a duty to commit ourselves globally and do something for those who are more difficult than ourselves, it is precisely an important dimension of Norwegian foreign policy. But you don't have to be so global that you don't find yourself anywhere. If you want to do something, including about the poverty problem, you have to deal with those who can also exert influence on the world stage – not on the VG, but on the global scale. For example, on the Kyoto issue, can anyone here answer how Norway could affect, for example: United States without being in close contact with the EU? With regard to what has been a point in the debate, customs freedom for the poorest countries, it was actually the EU that preceded it here. Then we have come and done the same as the EU, and there may be hope that other countries outside the EU and outside Norway will follow. It's not that you can have a globe and ignore 500 million people in Europe. If you want to influence this globe, you have to try to work with those who exist on this globe, and especially in our vicinity. If we weren't able to work with our neighbors in our neighborhood, who would we be able to cooperate with? I have to say that I am very surprised that those who now see that they have the same objectives that the EU is pursuing in the field by area are trying to ignore it because you don't like it. One should now be glad that Europe actually agrees with us on a wide range of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e871	I have already praised the Government from this pulpit that, according to the statement in the evening post today, it will now eliminate customs duties on imports of foreign goods. I think that's all reason to welcome it. I think it can be an important contribution for Norway to follow up EU decisions in this way, given the WTO negotiations that are due to start up again in November this year. In that context, I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. I am aware that he will come back with a statement on Norwegian positions and strategies ahead of new WTO rounds, but I saw in a statement in the Fisherman on 28 March this year entitled ‘Otto puts everything on the WTO’ that the Minister for Fisheries is now trying, through direct contact with key WTO Member States, to raise the issue of fisheries on the agenda. Can the Foreign Minister thus confirm that this government is committed to positioning Norway's offensive interests, rather than being overrun – I said – by the more defensive defence interests we have at a new WTO round? In that case, it will have Right-wing support. When it comes to the answer to today's business related to the way in which nuclear work is organized in the U.D., I take note that the foreign minister now confirms that he has cleaned this up. But when he tries to give the impression that this government has granted so much more to the Eastern European programme than before, it is a truth with great modifications. It is only possible to live in advance, as the commitment framework in the last year's budget now had to be cashed into fresh funds in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e880	Yes, I can confirm that we are also concerned with the offensive interests in the WTO negotiations. That's why we want to position ourselves in all areas so that we can position them offensively when the fisheries questions come up. This is not easy, because it is clear that we have other interests in agriculture, and we are trying to safeguard those interests as well. In view of the debate I tried to get up here, it is interesting to note that we also have EU support here. In fact, our closest allies on agricultural issues in the WTO negotiations are the EU, but perhaps they do not want to be realistic either. But we think we can combine these – what to say – more defensive and protective interests of our agriculture with the offensive interests of our fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e885	I have understood that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is taking NATO's Secretary-General to the income for the rapprochement of the Norwegian defence that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his government stands for. It could be a good supporter. It may well also be that these statements have fallen in such a way that they are not necessarily taken into account, it may be that the Secretary-General has spoken about adapting parts of the Norwegian forces to the DCI and to developments in particular in international operations. But with regard to the structure of the Norwegian defence, which is to safeguard our own national interests, I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not ask Robertson this question: is it important that Norway should maintain stability in the north and use resources on it? I have asked that question in a number of other forums and got the clear answer that it is important. The difference between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the People's Party is that at any price the Minister of Foreign Affairs will use Norwegian forces abroad without thinking about the bill, because it would be preferable for the defence to take care of it without bringing in fresh funds. And I referred to in my speech that the Foreign Minister had taken an initiative to find out whether Norway should also participate in the Congo. I would like to remind the Council of State that the resources to get involved are far-reaching, all of them know that they are in charge of the Defense. There are reserve officers who, in the main features, are at the heart of the forces we have out there, and crews who have signed contracts. Then it becomes strange, when the Stortinget has said that we need to concentrate on few tasks and do them properly, that the Foreign Minister wants to send Norwegian forces or observers to the Congo. Why is the Foreign Minister doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e894	Now Røsjorde is trying to turn this debate into a debate on the new defence plan. It is not so strange when he heads the Defence Committee and is not on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Now there's going to be a debate about this here in Stortinget on the basis of an attitude that's coming, and then we get a good opportunity to go through it. But when it is said that we have taken NATO's Secretary-General to income for the raging of Norwegian defence, we come down to a level that I do not think we should be on either the review of foreign policy or the review of defence policy. It's a fact that Robertson is satisfied with what's done, and what's presented by the Government is actually done in close cooperation with NATO. And it's not that NATO thinks we're now kind of laying the northern flank open to others. We continue to aim to contribute to and ensure stability in this area through the defence we have. So I notice that there is a difference between the Foreign Minister and the Advancement Party, but there is also a big difference between the Advancement Party and NATO Secretary-General. We just have to say that. When it comes to Congo, I don't think there's anyone who thinks we're going to send massive, big military forces there or elsewhere, because it's absolutely right as Røssorde says, we don't have any more to go on. But it's quite possible to do something in addition to what we've done, with observers and other types of functions, without going at the expense of the Norwegian defense. On the contrary, if we can contribute anything in different parts of the world, it actually helps to maintain competence and strengthen our defence. More difficult is not that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e903	I referred in my speech to the Foreign Minister’s statements after his statement on 20 March, where he said that it might be relevant to send a request for membership already in 2002–2003. In the evening post, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also now referred, it is said, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also said, that the Government should ‘assess a membership request once enlargement has started well next year or in 2003’. Now, Jagland says that this assessment will have to take several years, but – frankly – it doesn't seem very likely. I justify this, among other things. what happened the previous time such a question was updated. In the 1989 election campaign, the Labour Party and the government argued that this was an uninteresting and irrelevant question. As early as 4 April 1992, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland announced that the Workers' Party would apply, and as early as November the same year, the Stortinget was asked to join such an application, and such an application was sent. Now it is essential in principle not whether an application can be sent in 2002, 2003 or 2004. The interesting thing is whether this is relevant in the next growing-up period, in other words, that it is the great crowd to be selected for the harvest, which will decide on this matter. Following the National Meeting of the Labour Party, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said to the Business of today that neither an application nor a referendum can be excluded during the next major period. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs standing by this opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e911	What Jacobsen now did was essentially show that my calculation is correct, because he said 1989 and then April 4, 1992. It's actually three years. It is not that when an assessment of this issue is started, an application can be made on the table the next day. It takes several years for any application to be made. That's why you actually have to start assessing it before it can become relevant, because otherwise Norway can get completely in reverse. That is what is responsible for foreign policy. When the membership agreements are in place, it would be wise for all of us – first of all, the political parties – to sit down and think: what are we going to do? I expect that in all the parties there will be debates and advice, which will take quite a long time, before a new national meeting might be held, and it may have to manifest itself in a big message and debates here in the Chamber. There is a long process that we are facing, so it is not at all relevant to submit an application in 2002 or 2003. That's when we might start an assessment of what we're going to do. That is what I have consistently said, and then someone has wanted to interpret it so that at that time an application will be made to the EU. It's not fair to drive that way. This is not consistent with any facts, either in the past or what might become a future story in Norway’s relationship with the EU. I fully agree with what Jacobsen said, that it is basically important whether it can be relevant at all to promote an application during the next growing-up period. To this the Labour Party has said: Yes, we cannot completely rule it out. But I've added: it's kind of likely. But in any case, this can't happen until the very end of the next growing-up period, and in any case, it's the seventh and last Norwegian people who decide this in a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e920	In this debate, SV has stressed the need for Norway to show a critical attitude towards the United States, and that we must dare to challenge and disagree with the United States when it is in place. We can interpret some of the worst curvature jumps from the Bush administration as starting problems, but I'm afraid it's a conscious attitude of the new president to pursue a policy that means that the United States is more self-sufficient. This includes, for example: no to the Kyoto agreement, no to contribute to an international criminal court, no to the probation agreement, undermining the ABM agreement. Unfortunately, the list can be made longer in the case of a lack of international accountability on the part of the United States. As central as the relationship with the United States is in Norwegian foreign policy, and with the position the United States now has as its only superpower, SV believes it would be in place if the Stortinget actively took part in the design of Norway's US strategy, just as we are now working on European policy. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to present the US strategy to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e929	I'm very open to discussing it with Stortinget. It can be done in many different ways. I have already explained certain elements in terms of how we think, and there can be new explanations. Nothing would be better than if you could have a discussion here about our strategy in relation to the United States. I think it's a little strange, but interesting and positive, that SV wants a clear strategy in relation to the United States, while you don't want any strategy in relation to Europe. It must be completely dead – completely. Next to the United States, Europe is the most important player in world policy. For God's sake, you must not talk about that – excuse the expression. You can't talk about that, but you have to talk about America. What's forming is a world of many different heavy players. It is the United States, the European Union, Japan and India. There are some heavy players that we have to deal with, and that we have to be able to play along with, but also say from to. I think it is very natural that we here in the Chamber discuss our relationship with the United States – our strategy. But I think it's just as natural and necessary that we have a constant debate about how we deal with Europe. That is why I and the Labour Party have said that we must also have freedom of action in relation to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e941	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that Norwegian foreign policy is far fading. The danger is that we embrace areas so far that they do not receive the attention they deserve. Here it is necessary to have a foreign policy line that ensures that one is done, while the other is not neglected. The Minister of Foreign Affairs noted that Russia has become more self-conscious after the revolutions and loss of self-image of the 1990s. Our strong relations with the northern regions in particular should inspire further efforts from the Norwegian side. We will meet Russian policies and criticisms in individual matters with firmness, openness and predictability, but also have an inviting and open dialogue to strengthen relations with our great neighbour in the east. Common environment, common fisheries resources, future oil activity on both sides of the border and the reduction of security policy tension are areas of cooperation where both parties have a common interest. From a historical perspective, I think we've reached a long way in the past decade when it comes to opening the north border and inspiring interpersonal contact and building trust. It can well be argued that much economic assistance and Norwegian investment in North-West Russia have been shown to produce some very small results in a short-term perspective on individual issues of industry, environment, nuclear safety, etc. But it's important all the time to have a more long-term perspective. This is a long-term work, where Norwegian patience and long-term relationship building must not suffer because of short-term economic policies. The Minister for Foreign Affairs states that we can show good results in terms of cooperation, among other things. fisheries, energy and people for people-to-people cooperation. I agree. I also believe that ‘Kursk’s assistance and Norwegian assistance in the subsequent rescue operation will prove to be a powerful and long-term trust-building investment from the Norwegian side. I have self-esteemed that most people in St. Petersburg, in Murmansk and in Moscow, as well as politicians both in the state Duma and in North-West Russia, have changed opinions, arguments and positions since Norway showed concern for the neighbor in the form of excellent rescue skills. The government has presented an action plan for increased contact and cooperation between Norway and the candidate countries to the EU. The right is pleased that we now have an overall plan for cooperation with the candidate countries. The government’s right-hand priorities for cooperation with the countries of the Baltic Sea region — Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland — are shared, although in fact all the candidate countries are as close to Turkey as they are in the plan. It is very important for Norway, on the right, to take its fair share of responsibility for the European Union. Also, our security, stability and well-being will depend on us not letting welfare gaps along the former East-West divide get stuck. It is a moral responsibility to contribute to peace and development. That is why this needs to be given higher priority, even in an economic sense, than what we have now done. For the last ten years, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we have allocated $3 billion to Central and Eastern Europe, including Russia. Although we had spent NOK 3 billion only for Russia, it would have been a disappearing little part of what other European countries are betting on this country. I'm afraid the Council of State's statement and well-meaning opinion in the case of North-West Russia is going to get in trouble with the economic reality the Government itself adds up to. We're going to increase cooperation with several countries, and from experience I'm a little afraid that it will go beyond the projects and cooperation in the Barents region – the area that is undoubtedly the most important for our own country, precisely because it's our neighbour that we're bordering on. It is of our own interest that we continue the work on humanitarian aid, democracy building and the nuclear security programme, and not least that we are contributing to an economic development that reduces the differences between our two countries and our two peoples. Therefore, the right considers that the Government should increase the appropriations under the Action Plan already in the revised national budget, so as to avoid affecting existing cooperation with Russia. There is a significant danger that we are now in a phase and a development initiated by the budgets proposed by the Government, where we are actually involved in reducing efforts. I am referring to the fact that, already in our alternative budget in the autumn, we proposed to increase the appropriations by 200 million. kr. It is necessary for such follow-up to be included in the budget, for more than one person to recognise the need for investment, and for us to focus not only on Europe but also on our neighbourhood north-west Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e962	I don't know if it can be the kinship in tongues that makes me, like the previous speaker, intend to devote my speaking time to what is pressing in foreign policy in the northern regions, namely the relationship with Russia. The Foreign Minister’s statement clearly shows that Norway’s cooperation with Russia is and will be a priority task. Submarine service in the Barents Sea showed with all clarity the enormous coordination problems facing Russian society. Russia is in the midst of a comprehensive reform process. It is in our clear self-interest that Russia succeeds in consolidating democracy and developing a sustainable economy. As a neighbouring country and with our partners in Europe and North America, we can make important contributions. The EU is also stepping up its cooperation with Russia. We need to be active towards the EU to ensure that Norwegian priorities are included. The policy towards Russia and European policy thus becomes two sides of the same coin. One important prerequisite for Norway to be heard in European cooperation is that, as with other European countries, we take joint responsibility for building Europe, in order to promote European common interests. We must contribute to European peace and solidarity and to reduce the gap between East and West. The United States is an important supporter of efforts to integrate Russia into Euro-Atlantic cooperation, as it is. is expressed through Barents and Baltic Sea cooperation. It is important that the United States participates in relation to nuclear cooperation in North-West Russia. The international community must take joint responsibility for contributing to the proper management of hazardous nuclear waste in Kola. The challenges in the north demand that the United States and other resource-intensive countries continue to show active involvement. The consequences of instability and social distress in Russia are noted primarily in North Norway. Hardly anywhere in the world, we find a wealth gap between our two countries. We can't settle for that. It's also in the north we have the most important unresolved issue in our bilateral relationship, namely the demarcation in the Barents Sea. At the same time, it is perhaps here that we find the greatest unused opportunities for closer cooperation with our large neighbouring country. We must maintain sustainable resource management as one of the main objectives of Barents cooperation, not least in relation to the large fishing resources in the region. Norway and Russia manage rich fishing resources in the Barents Sea, and our two countries need to cooperate on the rational management of the common fish stocks. Cooperation focuses on fixing fishing quotas and research. There's obviously room for improvement here. It is not acceptable when research cooperation is hindered by the absence of access to the Russian economic zone by Norwegian research pillars. In this area, cooperation needs to be improved on a lasting basis. There should also be a basis for close cooperation between Norway and Russia in the field of energy, the Barents Sea and mainland Northern Russia. However, cooperation in the Barents Sea requires a solution to the demarcation issue. And then I must stress: it must be obvious that petroleum extraction and transport must be carried out in a way that does not jeopardize the environment and the common fisheries resources. The government has put forward a Russia strategy that covers the entire range of tensions between Russia and Norway. From the Norwegian side, this is a clear expression of the willingness to bet on relations with Russia and to coordinate long-term interests. Both national authorities must now show the political will to clear obsolete barriers in this cooperation. Trade, investment and democracy will then have better conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e988	The Foreign Minister's speech in Stortinget on 20 March was probably worth listening to. It was the presentation of foreign policy problem settings that captured interest, the perspective was in focus. The Minister for Foreign Affairs briefed himself in the force field of Norway, the triangle of the United States, the EU and Russia. The approach provided a long-term and realistic picture of foreign policy. The birthplace was that Norway is in a geopolitical crossroads, and that the challenges are many and demanding. As you know, Norway has already done a lot to think about a Russia strategy. Now, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will launch a work to look at all aspects of Norway’s relationship with the United States – a necessary and affordable initiative. This was not said about the EU, as if the European strategy was in place a long time ago. Right at that point, there's still reason to put a question mark. Regardless of the position of Norwegian membership of the EU, many claim, and rightly so, that Norwegian European policy is a little ambitious. As the case stands, it is easy to sum up the main points: Norway will secure its financial interests and otherwise contribute to peace and solidarity. Norway will avoid conflict with the EU, the import ban is the exception that confirms the rule. In general, EU policy is Norway's policy. Norway wants to compensate for its not being represented in the various EU bodies. At this point, the EU stands by, understandably, because in Brussels, there is little sense in getting us both in bags and bags. All in all, our European policy is pragmatic and based on a desire to hang on to developments whatever happens. Idyllen takes the floor until we find it too good to ask what kind of European development will be most in line with Norwegian interests. Should Norway for example: Welcome to Brussels as the capital of a federal EU? Should Norway be pleased that the EU countries appear to be a major act? Should we, as a matter of principle, accept forms of cooperation which cause great harm to the people's rule? I refer here to problem settings that are also at the heart of the discussion within the EU. The answer to such questions, and there should be no, must also be a driving force for Norwegian European policy. There is a conclusion that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have been able to draw for himself with a background in the perspective he has presented. For example, it is important for Norway, also as a consequence of the relationship with the United States and Russia, that countries and regions in the EU should be brought forward by virtue of their own weight. But it doesn't seem to go that way, it's in the system. The Barcelona process, which was intended to trigger extensive cooperation in the Mediterranean region, and the northern dimension of the EU is likely to flow into the sand. The explanation is simple: Spain, Italy and Greece look towards Brussels, and the corresponding trend suggests power from initiatives in the north. From the Norwegian perspective, this is not a successful development, but we are not consulted. Norway may, in different ways, support under the vision of ‘eit régionalised Europe’. And de facto, the other powers in the triangle appear to be increasingly interesting partners for Norway. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the United States is an important supporter in the case of the United States. Barents region. The United States is also active in nuclear cooperation in North-West Russia. Interaction of this kind is an important part of our Russia strategy. While the northern dimension of the EU is strenuous in finding footholds in a Brussels-fixed Union, regions in the north are based on real policy. The foreign minister's speech was at this point clarifying and interesting. The mindset is in line with a desire to strengthen the transatlantic bonds. From a Norwegian point of view, as it is possible to interpret the foreign minister’s speech, it may hardly be in Norwegian interest for the EU to develop into a federal state, with little power for the regions and with a bulwark against the United States in defence and foreign policy. At the same time, it must be said that the sea of hops with the United States is also complicated and sometimes very problematic. The conflict over the Kyoto agreement shows that. Nuclear questions and rocket defense are also kinky things. As a close ally, we should lead in the future clear speech and show the will for self-thinking. In particular, I hope that the Norwegian Government will support any initiative that could lead to the Baltic countries becoming members of NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1003	Increasingly, foreign policy and domestic policy are intertwining. The extent of policy areas that cross national borders is only increasing. The European integration process increasingly affects the importance and content of concepts that are central to our understanding of policies and policy decisions, not to talk about developments in our society. I'd like to know who disagreed. This, of course, applies to the enlargement of the EU, which also means enlargement of the EEA, thus affecting Norwegian exports of fish products to central European countries with which we are currently engaged in free trade, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed in his statement. The shift between the EU and EFTA in the EEA is increasing dramatically. With the accession of Poland and the Baltic States to the EU, the Baltic Sea becomes an EU port and the internal balance of power in the Union shifts northwards. The EU will therefore also become an important premiscuous provider for the development of our neighbourhoods. Against this hindrance, giving substance to the northern dimension of the EU will be very important. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time in his presentation on the relationship with the Norwegian-Russian connections and on the Russia strategy the Government announced last year. It has been important to engage the EU, in cooperation with Russia, in the field of nuclear safety in the north. It has also been important to make the EU aware that development in Russia as such is a responsibility for Europe as a whole, and that the northern dimension must focus primarily on concrete measures for development, industrial investment, nuclear safety and environmental action in these areas. Journalist Peter Normann Waage once said that Russia is somewhere else. When the Soviet Union went into disintegration, we thought that Russia would soon become like us, a civil society with a functioning market economy. It didn't happen. So the rubble knelt together, and poverty increased dramatically, as others have been before today. Then we began to treat Russia as a developing country. But Russia is neither like us nor like an unland. For example, the Russian population is highly educated, with a high level of competence in many areas. It is completely impossible to characterize Russia as a developing country. And I believe that the problems in North-West Russia can be solved in the long term in active cooperation between Russia, the EU, EU partners in the EEA, Norway and Iceland, as well as the United States and Canada, the Barents region and areas covered by Arctic cooperation. The Barents Council and all these bodies should therefore also be able to make an active contribution. The Nordic Council is now holding, among others: to identify a number of actions and projects existing in the various bodies to promote the Northern Dimension. The aim is to hold a funding conference in 2002 in which both private actors and governments participate in order to provide the EU’s northern dimension with substance. And I think it is necessary to link financial institutions to individual projects because there is no budget at the root of the northern dimension of the EU. I would also like to stress that it is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, that Norway is now meeting Russia in the UN Security Council; I do not think that can be underestimated. Furthermore, the Foreign Minister’s statement shows that Africa continues to dominate the work of the Security Council. Of course, we will return to Africa in the development policy debate that we are going to have later in ours. In relation to our work in the UN, conflict and peace work is crucial for people in Africa to have their hope and dreams fulfilled, and for them to become an integral part of our foreign policy. Assistance must also be seen in the context of our foreign policy. We need to work with Africa in a targeted way, including: based on a comprehensive framework for development related to trade, assistance, etc., and I would like to refer to today's communication on customs and quota-free market access for MUL countries in this context. Finally, I welcome the initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to conduct a wide-ranging investigation into measures for more concrete driving rules in the international economy. It is the mix of market economy and political governance that characterises European countries, which we must also achieve globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1022	The broad statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is the background for today's debate, also makes it natural that there has been a broad tension over this debate. It has been interesting to follow and see how attitudes in this room reflect the emphasis of individuals. Some people focus primarily on the proximity of Russia, some of them to the Third World, some of them to the United States, some of them to the EU, and some of them to the international organisations we participate in, such as the United Nations, the OSCE and other forums. I think I noticed in a line-up between the chairperson of the Defence Committee and the Minister for Foreign Affairs something in the sense that it was almost wrong to involve the Defence in a debate within the Foreign Affairs Committee. I hope I made a little mistake there, because otherwise it would be very bad for a member of the Justice Committee to register. My 'excuse me' is that we are still responsible for civil protection. I will come back to why I believe that the total defence of Norway also matters to how we can act internationally. The role of defence in Norwegian foreign and security policy is so central that, in my opinion, it would be entirely wrong not to include defence in a foreign policy debate. Norway’s contribution to a positive development in our foreign policy areas must primarily be to create predictability of our own defence and security policy framework factors. If we do not have security for the defence of our own neighbourhoods, we do not have much to contribute in international contexts either. And that's the way we contribute to international operations, that defence is being used as a foreign policy instrument to help secure peace and stability in the world. But at least indirectly, we are also involved in importing our own security through the efforts we make elsewhere in the world. This debate lies in the middle of the debate we had in connection with St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 on our international operations, and the defence debate that we are about to have, as well as the debate on civil protection. Unfortunately, we have not received that message in parallel with the new structures of the Defence Agency, as we had foreseen. It must be underlined once again just before we begin to put into place the framework of defence, that the fury of defence provided by the Government – in order to use the formulation of the chair of the Defence Committee – must be a matter of concern, and it must have consequences for the opportunities we have to contribute internationally, there is no need to hide it. This issue was rather central, but was somewhat subdued during the debate on international operations. But there was a clear, if not too much, contrast of interest between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand, and the large number on the other. I think it has become clearer now prior to the final debate on the new structure of the defence if we are willing to add the money into the defence that is necessary for us to operate out. If we don't do that, the issues that the Right and the Advance Party pointed to in the treatment of St.meld will be. No 38 for 1998-99, further underlined, and it's going to create opening and space for even greater disagreement than the shades that were present when we discussed those operations. Therefore, my final contribution will be: we are not willing to purchase security through EU membership. We maintain critical attitudes to much of what the United States is doing. And then our main contribution to peace and stability in our areas must be that we at least ensure our own security through the defence of Norwegian territories, and then priority no. 2 – but well-priority – will be what it will be possible to participate in in foreign operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1035	I just have a brief comment on the tame of the debate. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that a new application for Norwegian EU membership at the end of the next enlargement period could be the earliest possible. It is assessed whether a new application should be submitted which may start in 2002 or 2003. That's how I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now I thought to the extent that at least the parties that were clear yes parties last, continuously assessed this from the point of view of how the situation around EU enlargement is actually going on, but I think this is a very useful clarification by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is not SV's will or that we follow the foreign minister out of the hall and listen to what he has to say afterwards in the hiking hall, which has led to this being a political question. It is the press records that have made this a question in Stortinget on several occasions, and I am so pleased that it has now been clarified. I think it would have been wise for the government to say that this is not a topical question for the whole next majority period. I think it would have meant a lot to the climate around the debate on the development of the EU and the whole of Europe that one could have it in a situation where the question of a new application for Norwegian EU membership would not have to be put to the table at the next moment. Then I think you could actually get a debate with your shoulders a little lower down with someone and each. It is also interesting that, in my post, Igland takes note of the same procedure when or if it becomes relevant to apply for EU membership for Norway in a new round, because many have wondered if it was not such that someone would have thought that the procedure some time later would be that they conducted a referendum on the question of whether or not to send an application. But as I now understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he is very clear that the procedure is that first the Stortinget will deal with whether to negotiate an agreement, then the agreement will be negotiated, and then the time for any referendum. I think that is also a useful clarification. On the SV side, we are also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so attentive to discussing Norway’s US strategy. I think that you might fall for the temptation to have a little unnecessary with SV in that connection. It is not our intention that Norway should seek membership in The United States of America if we are to discuss a US strategy for Norwegian policy. It is in the same way that we are now dealing with the European Communication presented by the Government itself, which is being discussed by the Foreign Affairs Committee and which comes up in the Grand Duchy on a later occasion. But we think there may be a lot of Norwegian foreign policy issues that had been said to have a review of Norway's U.S. open-ended strategy, and I am glad that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is so attentive to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1051	I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so attentive when it came to our wish that the Stortinget should have the opportunity to discuss our strategy towards the United States. I therefore ask that the SV's proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1056	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1067	It is then to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1073	During the debate, Mr Rughtvedt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The representative later requested that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal and the introduction amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit the notified US strategy to the Storting as a matter of its own.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the meeting of 20 March 2001 on foreign policy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-06.ana.ud1708e1097	There is no record.
