ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e44	The called representative of the South Tribute County, No Balstad, has taken the seat. From the representative of Anita Apelthun Sæle, notice is given that the permit granted, as amended, is amended to apply only to the days of 25 and 26 April. – This message is taken into account. The representative of Anita Apelthun Seele will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e59	I would like to make a private proposal on behalf of Erna Solberg, Torbjørn Andersen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Karin Andersen, Terje Johansen and myself on closer investigations into competition with a background to the situation in the grocery market.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e64	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e74	In 2001, about a quarter of the world’s population lives in extreme poverty. In 2015, the share of poor people in the world should be halved. This is the world community's most important agreed development objective, adopted at the UN and adopted at the OECD. If we are to achieve this goal, national powers must be taken in the developing countries themselves, supported by favourable international framework conditions and supported by the aid of the rich world. More than ever, today we have knowledge of the reality of the world's poor. We know more about the conditions for sustainable development and fair distribution. We know more about the links between conflict and poverty. We know more about the importance of nutrition for children's welfare and well. We know more about the inherent opportunities and dangers of globalisation. Norway is a small country, but a significant development policy player. And we're richer than ever. Less than ever before, we can now allow ourselves to become introverts – to be ourselves enough. Our resources, our knowledge and our values give us a moral responsibility: sharing our own wealth to contribute to growth and development in poor countries. If not our own conscience will ask us, then our children will do it: what did you know? What did you do? Why didn't you do more? The decline in aid from the rich countries in the 1990s has coincided with the most ambitious reform wave in developing countries. Countries that reformed their governance and economies in line with our recommendations were premiered – of all things – with less assistance than before. The President of the World Bank, represented in our country on 2 April this year, states that this has been a completely wrong signal from the donor countries. I fully agree with that. Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, has a clear responsibility to increase aid and to help other rich countries do the same. At the same time, we must not forget that responsibility goes beyond aid alone. Development policy is much more about debt, financial transactions, investment, and it is not least about industrial development, trade and market access. In order to create growth and thereby provide a basis for poverty reduction, developing countries – as all other countries – are totally dependent on a robust business life. Development and industrial development are two sides of the same coin. For this reason, the Government has placed support for industrial development at the heart of development policy. With last year's cleaning up and simplifying the tool and with the investment at NORFUND, the government believes that it has found a formula that is good for both assistance and business. The enhanced cooperation of NORFUND with its UK counterpart, Commonwealth Development Corporation Capital Partners, CDC, which allows broad and active participation in the management of local investment funds is thus a significant innovation. Investment in industrial development makes little sense if developing countries cannot find a reserve for their export products. Therefore, the Government proposes to grant customs and quota-free market access to all products, except arms, to LDCs. The EU has done the same, but with transitional arrangements until 2009. Our system will be fully operational from 1 July 2002. Let me point out here that the European Union in the field of development policy is a very important player with whom we have good dialogue, among other things. on the quality of assistance. I would like to mention that yesterday and today I have had talks with the European Union's aid Commissioner, Mr Nielson, who is also here today. With the focus on industrial development and market access for the poorest countries, the Government strengthens two key pillars of Norwegian development policy, so that the different parts of the policy support each other better and work better together. In the field of debt, we're already at the forefront of international affairs. We were the first to initiate 100 pst. One-sided debt to the poorest countries, as some other creditor countries followed up by the United Kingdom and the United States later. Recently, Norway has been a driving force behind the establishment of binding negotiations on the financing of the comprehensive debt cancellation mechanism The World Bank and the IMF have taken the initiative, the HIPC mechanism. As far as assistance is concerned, Norway has for a number of years been first among donor countries. We're going to keep doing that! The purpose of the government is to increase Norwegian assistance to 1 pst. of gross national income. The government is also assessing the possibility of setting up a development fund. But the aid debate must not become a one-sided debate about volume and percentages. The political shift in Norwegian aid has too often been reduced to a question of how much of the gross national income we see is able to spend on aid. We need to be better at debating quality and efficiency. Today, Norwegian aid is, quite rightly, at the forefront of effective poverty reduction. According to the World Bank, we are significantly better than the OECD average. We should not be ashamed of that character book! But we must not rest on our laurels either. We have to be even more effective. Our contributions must lift even more people out of poverty. Let me explain some of the main premises of the Government's development policy. Firstly, aid is about cooperation. Assistance should support the country's own fight against poverty. Secondly, development cooperation is about active and as much equivalent partnerships as possible. In a broader perspective, development cooperation is a key chapter in the ‘global contract’ for poverty reduction, as expressed at the UN Millennium Assembly last year. Through good governance, countries themselves must facilitate effective poverty reduction, supported by good international framework conditions and significant transfers of aid. Thirdly, partnership is about making demands – demands for ourselves, but also demands for our partners, both at home and outside. Some environments are still indignant that we are making demands, whether in development cooperation in general or in relation to debt relief, more specifically. Most of the time, I find this criticism pointless. Fourthly, development policy is about wanting a lot, but not too much at once! Here, with my hand on the heart, I believe that Norwegian aid policy has ‘extended’ to some extent. We've been too busy doing all the good things, all the time, and everywhere. We have tended to impose too many policy objectives on each other. Our actual political priorities do not always appear to be as clear. Such self-criticism should allow us – the collective aid Norway – to take place in 2001. As the responsible State Council, I would like to show that we tolerate this self-research. Because this both can and will we do something about! Therefore, the Government will carry out a critical review of: which and how many countries we should cooperate with, in particular, what we should work with them on, and how we can improve some of our most central instruments. Assistance has little positive effects in countries with poor steering sets. This took the consequence of last year, when Zimbabwe was terminated as a priority cooperation country. When the war ran between Ethiopia and Eritrea in the spring and the summer of last year, we set the state to the state-cooperation with both countries. In the light of the subsequent peace process, we have redefined our cooperation with the two countries, with a strong focus on peace and reconciliation, democracy, human rights and good governance. What does good governance mean? This means, among other things: democratisation, fair distribution, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and responsible resource management. And that means equality! These are necessary conditions for sustainable poverty reduction. We can hardly expect our cooperating countries to be able to achieve all of this at once. We know from experience from our own society that these are processes that take time. But we're definitely going to expect them to reach these goals. In the 2001 government budget, the Government signalled that it will carry out a review of the priority cooperation countries and countries receiving regional aid as part of further improving the effectiveness of bilateral assistance. The government will come back with its proposals in the 2002 state budget. The goal is more focused, concentrated and effective bilateral assistance. Let me make it clear that the principle of poverty orientation is going to be firm. Today, we have eleven priority countries of cooperation. In addition, a third of countries are receiving regional aid. We will focus on a smaller group of countries with which Norway can have long-term and extensive cooperation. The Government wants to bring the term ‘main cooperation country’ back to honor and dignity. The process of defining the main cooperation country group is under way. In the selection of land, the Government will, among other things, place emphasis on the following: Countries shall be among the least developed countries in the world, MUL. In other words, we are talking about a high level of poverty, about cooperation with those who need it the most. Countries need to show a clear political will to solve important national challenges themselves. We want to cooperate with those who themselves take action and promote good governance. We, as one of the developing countries, need to focus on what we can contribute to the needs of the recipient country. Cooperation with Norway must add value to the country concerned in relation to multilateral assistance or bilateral cooperation with other donor countries. Most poor countries in the world today have fragile social structures. They are vulnerable to both international economic fluctuations, political unrest and conflict. Main cooperation countries need to know that, through their development cooperation, Norway is also ready to be involved in times of adversity. While our long-term development cooperation should be robust, predictable and built on mutual trust, we need to be ready for change if the basis for cooperation changes significantly. In this state of co-operation with our main co-operation countries, there must be their own strategies to reduce poverty, linked to their needs, which are crucial to the support of Norwegian aid. We also need to have a group of other cooperating countries. Cooperation with these countries should, as a general rule, be narrower and less extensive than with the main co-operation countries, while not necessarily having the same long-term character. In several countries and areas, our main contribution is to support peace processes, directly and indirectly. In such contexts, additional short-term and long-term assistance will often have a positive effect. Many countries can play a strong and constructive regional role. I am convinced that regional cooperation between the countries of the south bears great potential. We need to make this potential even stronger than in the past. In the choice of partners, we also need to take such considerations into account. In some countries or regions, it may be appropriate for Norway to focus more strongly on selected areas of action, such as improving child growth conditions, health, education, the environment, energy, good governance or combating corruption. The work on more focused, concentrated and effective bilateral assistance will have implications for the structure of the aid budget. The government will change the report of results to the Storting so that it will primarily be based on the international development objectives and the development of countries in relation to these rather than strange ‘result areas’. Reporting will, of course, continue to be done in accordance with the applicable guidelines to ensure that the appropriations are used properly. The government will continue its efforts to strengthen the UN – and increasingly draw on the competence of the UN and the multilateral system in practical assistance cooperation. And let's say, with Kofi Annan at the rudder, the UN is on the right track. The Secretary-General deserves tribute for his ongoing reform work, including important organisational action and systematic work to ensure the quality and competence of the World Organisation. We now see the outlines of closer cooperation between the United Nations and the banking system. We need to improve our support for such cooperation, both between the multilateral institutions themselves and between their owners, that is. Member States. We also need to support better coordination through our own priorities at country level. That means that we will also target our multilateral assistance more strongly. We will continue Norway's significant contribution to the basic funding of key international institutions. The money must be followed up with a more active and conscious policy strategy for our cooperation with these, where we will increasingly focus on the effectiveness of institutions. In addition, we will focus our cooperation with multilateral organisations on some priority areas. The main priorities of Norwegian development policy — health, education, good governance and sustainable development — will also be highlighted in multilateral assistance. Efforts will be more effective, including by strengthening the interaction between bilateral and multilateral efforts at country level. ==References== 1⁄4 of the entire aid budget has been used in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, predominantly Norwegian. Here we are in Norway completely at the top of the world. The reason is that we have a number of very good organizations that have shown that they can deliver. Today, we are demanding greater efficiency for all the partners we work with; more development for each krona, less bureaucracy and more quality. We have also addressed this with the organisations. Much has been achieved through better coordination of state and multilateral assistance at country level. The activities of voluntary organisations, on the other hand, are still often scattered as point interventions. Despite consistently good results for each project, the wider development effect is thus limited. In some cases, the ability of national authorities to carry out their tasks in a rational way is also weakened. It is of great importance that voluntary organisations themselves address these challenges. Our grant schemes also need to facilitate the optimal exploitation of the benefits and opportunities of organisations in a coordinated effort to achieve the development objectives. It is important for voluntary organisations to have predictable framework conditions. It is important for granting authorities to have good governance. We have consulted a wide range of Norwegian organisations about this. In order to ensure predictability and the freedom of action of organisations, we will now cultivate the grant scheme for voluntary organisations – also known as the ‘freewill grant’ – for actions that strengthen civil society. Support will be based on the organisation's own premises and opportunities for such efforts. In countries with good governance, voluntary organisations can be a useful complement to other efforts. In countries with poor governance, they can be useful corrective. Furthermore, organisations will be able to apply for additional grants for their work in the priority geographical and thematic areas of Norwegian assistance. Current tasks will include service production, institutional and peace-building efforts, where organisations have competence and can add value in the implementation of development cooperation. For such efforts, specific coordination and consistency requirements will be in place with Norwegian development policy and developmental leadership. In new guidelines, we have simplified the arrangements as far as possible, while clarifying the requirements for reporting on relationships and results. The size has asked for an evaluation of the impact of development cooperation through non-governmental organisations. This evaluation will be presented in a forward-looking manner. It will be based on the roles and guidelines of cooperation that we have now presented. The aim is to identify the extent to which organisations actually contribute to capacity building in civil society and the impact and added value that voluntary organisations contribute to the development cooperation financed by regional and thematic appropriations. I also want to involve the political parties on Stortinget more in development cooperation. The Parties shall ensure the popular anchoring of development policy and shall also have competence in the construction of democracy. The political parties represented at Stortinget can contribute more to the development of well-functioning and pluralistic party systems and democratic conditions in developing countries. By working together on long-term democratic organisational building through knowledge transfer, advice and international exchanges, we strengthen the opportunities to reduce poverty. Therefore, in the draft budget for next year, I will come back with a concrete proposal for an allocation that can contribute to such democratic support. This brings me to our priority areas of action. And the children – the child’s growing-up conditions and children’s rights – must come first. Some investments are crucial for the development and future of every country. The world's poorest countries do not even make the minimum investment necessary to safeguard the elementary rights of children. When well-being is as divided as it is, children in poor countries are deprived of the right to choose their future. Enlargement of human choices is the very essence of the concept of ‘development’. The UN special session on children in September this year will be an opportunity to assess what we have achieved since the child’s child’s appearance in 1990. But more importantly, the specialisation must be used to establish goals and strategies for the next decade. From the Norwegian side, we will pay particular attention to children's right to participate, children who are victims of exploitation and war, children affected by HIV/AIDS and children with disabilities. We want to pay particular attention to improving the situation of girls. Children are entitled to a basic health service. The government, through the GAVI Global Vaccine Initiative, has shown that it is useful to go ahead in new ways. We've got others involved and focused on how to maintain the results of the vaccine work over time. GAVI has speeded up the international work on vaccines. With the GAVI funds so far allocated, it is estimated that it will be possible to prevent half a million deaths among children every year. This is a good use of aid money. From the Norwegian side, we're paying $1 billion over a five-year period. Basic education for all — but especially for girls and women — is an important area of government activity. In order to create high-growth societies, there is hardly anything more important than investment in human capital. The government wants to contribute even more strongly to the protection and rehabilitation of children with war dreams. We bring up children in war in the UN Security Council, among others. through our focus on Africa. Norway has signed the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Minimum Age for Participation in Armed Forces. The process for ratifying this is in progress. We hope that this will be done in the special session, as UNICEF has called for. Six months ago, Norway ratified the ILO Convention against the worst forms of child labour. The Convention provides a binding framework for our cooperation with a number of developing countries. The government will continue to have the fight against child labour high on the agenda. In this work, we will seek broad alliances with the research communities, organisations and private businesses. The gender impact of girls and young women has been widely discussed in the media lately. The Government's action plan on gender equality, presented last December, is an important contribution to our further work on this problem, both nationally and internationally. The problem must be addressed with a certain sensitivity, but no one should be in doubt about our position on this kind of abuse of young girls. As one of its first political outpourings, the Bush administration revived the so-called Mexico City policy of Ronald Reagan's time. The main message was, and is now again, that taxpayers’ money should not be used for purposes that promote women’s right to self-determined abortion. This is a major setback for equality and can be a blow to international work on sexual and reproductive health. The global HIV/AIDS disaster we are now facing threatens to undermine the results of many years of development cooperation. It is the investment in human capital that is being hit. Today, 36 million people are infected. Over 13 million children have lost their parents. 6,000 Africans die of AIDS every day. Asia is being hit with increasing force. That is why the fight against this epidemic has become so central to Norwegian development policy, and therefore HIV/AIDS is on the continuous list of cases in the multilateral financial institutions, the UN and the World Trade Organisation. Because the AIDS epidemic is exceptional, the extraordinary response is required. All good forces must cooperate. Well! At the level of office, management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD meets regularly as an AIDS team responsible for dealing on a broad front. Through the Aidsforum – with representatives from the business community, the trade movement, voluntary organisations, the Church, sports organisations, cultural life and the media – central Norwegian social actors contribute to the leadership, weight, creativity and visibility of AIDS. The participants of the Forum are well-informed in mobilising their own networks at home and out of the way, focusing on the specific challenges they face, and the tools they have. A good example is the statement on the global AIDS disaster of the Spring Bishops' Meeting, where the Church's own responsibility is clearly expressed. Around 50 different Norwegian non-governmental organisations and professional communities involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS have agreed to participate in a joint effort with NORAD and UD through AIDS networks. The results of this are greater ideas, more cooperation across organisational boundaries, deeper insight into the complex challenges we face, and new substance in our development policy dialogue at different venues. The main focus of the Government’s AIDS work is prevention, with particular emphasis on young people and children and measures that can help reduce risk behaviour, especially among men. In addition, we have been actively involved in two special areas, one related to medicines, the other related to peacekeeping operations. The treatment of AIDS has made great progress in recent years. However, the price of treatment remains out of reach for most developing countries. In addition to the price problem, this is also about inadequate and poorly functioning healthcare with a low funding base. Norway was previously the host of an international conference on pricing and access to important medicines under the auspices of the World Health Organisation and the World Trade Organisation. An important screening work was carried out in interaction between different interest groups in order to address key issues. The various actors will now have to process the outcome of the conference. The issues will include: be discussed at the World Health Organisation Health Assembly and at the WTO TRIPS Council before the summer. Norway has assumed responsibility for organising the next meeting of the Steering Committee to follow up the Security Council Resolution on HIV/AIDS in peace operations. HIV/AIDS will be a theme during the Nordic Peace 2001 exercise. We are also a proponent of UNHCR's work on refugees and HIV/AIDS. The government has this year doubled the multilateral aid earmarked HIV/AIDS targets to 130 million. kr. The cross-sectoral cooperation within UNAIDS is the very cornerstone of this work, while the Health Organisation is at the heart of health. The UN Special Session on AIDS this summer will be an important stoppage to analyse the situation and, where appropriate, further adapt our instruments. Cultural cooperation helps create commitment and progress in the fight against poverty. Cultural expressions are often the best form of communication around sensitive questions. We see many examples of this, not least in our African countries of cooperation. We're also going to take this with us in the fight against AIDS. We're betting on the fight against AIDS, and we're betting on vaccines. This results and has a good development impact on money through significant additional resources in the aid budget and with active international participation, development policy and developmental expertise. Now we want to take one step further and strengthen our response to the public disease tuberculosis. It is closely linked to poverty. It is closely connected to AIDS. Our older generation still remembers the face of the tuberculosis. Now the disease is increasing to an extent globally; in developing countries as well as in our large neighbouring country in the east. We have experience in Norway to draw on. Internationally, many forces have merged into a ‘Stop TB’ initiative. We want to show that the Norwegian people are going to take a lift. We will propose to increase the effort next year by 100 million. kr. Access to energy is a fundamental prerequisite for development and poverty reduction. Sustainable economic growth requires access to energy at acceptable prices, based on sound resource management. Energy addresses all major challenges in development cooperation. It's a source of heating and cooking. We need energy for field hospitals, for schools and for business development. Lack of or polluting energy supply is the source of everything from health problems, environmental damage and desertification to climate problems and conflict. We must promote the links between energy, the environment and development. Norway is an important energy nation, regionally as global. This means expectations of a focused and consistent energy policy also in the field of development. I want to strengthen our efforts for energy, the environment and development and aim at a significant stepping up of the funds for this next year. A sustainable and environmentally friendly energy policy vis-à-vis the poorest countries combines Norway's best professional assumptions with a key challenge in tackling poverty. High environmental standards, future technologies and means of assistance need to be combined in a common impetus to ensure a more sustainable energy supply. This was an important message during the Prime Minister's visit to India, where it was agreed to set up a Norwegian Indian Commission for closer cooperation. India is the only country in the world with its own State Council for Alternative Energy Sources. The country is the world's fifth largest supplier of wind power. India has considerable knowledge of bioenergy, for many in the poorest countries the most important source of energy. Here we want to learn from their experiences and knowledge. As underlined by the Prime Minister, cooperation on bioenergy and renewable energy sources will be a natural extension of the environmental cooperation already established by Norway with India. This could include both business, research and voluntary organisations. India could become a strategic partner in developing a sustainable energy supply in other developing countries. I have set up a working group to set up a plan to strengthen Norway's commitment to renewable energy in aid. One of the objectives is to identify areas where Norwegian competence can be of particular benefit to developing countries. We must contribute to an energy dialogue with our cooperating countries that puts sustainable energy supply at the centre of the poor. Renewable energy sources will be at the heart of this dialogue. We will also work to ensure that energy and environmental issues are given a central place on the agenda of the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002, the so-called Rio+10 Conference. I have registered the Bush administration's view of international climate cooperation under the Kyoto Protocol. If this really becomes future American policy, this is nothing less than dramatic. We have to choose another way. Norway must choose mandatory international cooperation based on the Kyoto Protocol. In our national policies, in international environmental cooperation and in our cooperation with the poorest countries, the Government chooses to strengthen sustainable development policy. Development and peace are closely linked. For cooperation partners such as Uganda, Tanzania and Zambia, the conflicts in neighbouring countries pose a threat to their own stability and development. A key challenge is to contribute to ensuring long-term development and stability in these countries, while at the same time engaging in conflict resolution and humanitarian point interventions in neighbouring countries. The UN Security Council spends more than half its time on conflicts in Africa. The UN has managed only to a limited extent to deal with these conflicts. In the follow-up to the Brahimi report, peace building and re-establishment of conflict-affected societies have been promoted. This has important implications for Norwegian development policy. Development must be part of a coordinated policy effort. Our policies must not be hampered by a gap between the humanitarian efforts, the political follow-up and the longer-term development aid. In conflict areas, it is important that aid for reconciliation, democratic construction and economic and social development be speeded up. We will therefore strengthen and clarify the link between, on the one hand, the targeted and often punctual support provided by Norway to conflict-affected countries and areas, and, on the other hand, the long-term development aid. In the budget for next year, I will propose my own gap allocation to strengthen this effort. We call it development as peace building. It is not enough to report that our assistance is generally good in the World Bank and in the OECD. I intend to set up an external sample to strengthen the evaluation function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the participation of young people, businesses, trade unions and organisations. The Committee shall assist the Ministry in assessing the results of Norwegian development policy in more specific areas. Through this, I will increase transparency and create more dialogue on development policy, with a view to further renewal and efficiency. Assistance is politics. This was the main point of the last year's policy on development, and it is a key point in this. Assistance is politics because some parties want to reduce it. Every year, the Right Party and the Progressive Party promote proposals for dramatic cuts in our support for the poorest. The aid is a choice of value we take, but nothing we can take for granted. Assistance is policy because it requires national choices. Bad governance, corruption and lack of democracy undermine aid and maintain poverty. This is why development cooperation is also a choice of value for our countries of cooperation. Assistance is policy because it requires committed and equivalent international cooperation. In these days a number of important international conferences are being prepared, including the Third UN Conference on Least Developed Countries in Brussels next month, the High Level Meeting on Financing for Development in Mexico in March next year and the former Rio+10 Conference in Johannesburg in September 2002. At the same time, it is working for a new round of negotiations in the WTO. We're going to use these processes and conferences to build North-South partnerships. All countries, not least developing countries, must use their voice and be heard internationally. We need more cooperation partners and allies from the south in important international processes and in our development policy. For a long time, mutual cooperation has been in the north, while the one-sided aid focus has been directed to the south. We have to change this and we have to change it. We need to concentrate our long-term cooperation more on those countries that show political will and ability to do something about poverty and injustice. We need to increase our efforts to help stimulate their ability. That's why we're betting on the kids and their growing-up conditions. That is why we are focusing on health and education. And that is why we are focusing on the fight against corruption, on good governance and on democratic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e283	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Development be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e297	This is an attitude on which there is a broad political consensus. A minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that responsibility for continuing education and training in the field of building conservation should be added to the vocational school level – a level that a majority in the UK has previously adopted to be statutory. I assume that they will explain and justify their comment. The majority believe that several levels should be responsible for the development of different offers. This means that both higher education institutions, secondary schools and, where appropriate, post-secondary schools will develop different educational options — basic training provision, continuing training provision and teacher training provision. This matter must be seen in the context of vocational training in small trades, subject-matter of protection or, as it were, cultural subjects. Many trades are about to disappear due to poor recruitment. In connection with Innst. S. No 180 for 1999-2000, Stortinget discussed ways of organising work to address the recruitment gap. The size of the store concluded, among other things: that provision should be made for the whole country to be covered by training offices. It was recognised that this is the responsibility of the parties, but the Committee was clear here: it is the role of the State to facilitate cooperation across borders. In this regard, I would like to recall the clockmaker’s subject – which is a small subject, a worthy subject, a subject that is about to disappear – at Kongsberg. After Stortinget discussed the matter, the county council has taken responsibility. They have taken responsibility for this training offer, rescued it and established it as a nationwide line of commitment cooperation. This is a good model – the only model – to take care of small trades. It is therefore important that the Stortinget and the Ministry are clear about their expectations and that action is taken. I expect the Ministry to take the initiative in relation to county councils to cooperate on the establishment of training offices to recruit small and protective subjects – we can well use the term ‘cultural discipline’. Professionals will always be in the process of development, and for a subject to develop, two things are required: that there is provision for continuing training for those who have a vocational or bachelor's certificate and that there are offers in higher education. The person responsible for such training must also be responsible for collecting, systematising and developing knowledge and being an important player in the professional development of the area. There is also a need for the training of teachers in the field of education, and this is a responsibility for higher education institutions. Knowledge of the subjects is largely collected from individuals. It is therefore essential for those who are to further develop the subjects to be able to establish a network of those who have knowledge, i.e. the higher education institutions — vocational schools or whatever — to establish the necessary networks and collect, systematise, develop and process the knowledge. This responsibility – I would like to emphasise – should lie with different actors. We know that there is a lot of good work going on. The majority of the Committee is concerned that responsibility must be placed at one or more levels and that it must also be placed on specific institutions. The Committee asks the Ministry to return to the Stortinget with a statement on how to organise this further. This is, in fact, such an important matter that it should be given priority so that the environments that will be responsible for it can start to systematise the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e318	Secondary school is responsible for training skilled workers in small and protective crafts. The Committee has previously expressed concern at the recruitment of these subjects and has said that it is of great value that the professional competence of these subjects is preserved and that this competence can be demonstrated by professional/friendship letters. In addition, it is pointed out that training needs to be practical. It's taken time to get this in place. Marit Tingelstad had an interpellation on this in October 1998. The current State Council Lilletun responded positively to it and set up a working group to look at the educational offer. An adjustment was then prepared, which was sent out at the hearing last year. The Christian People's Party believes it is time to set up continuing training facilities and also basic training in the field of building protection, and we look forward to the Ministry returning with an arrangement for the organisation during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e327	I want to start by giving praise to the representative Tingelstad, who has once again brought up a theme for which I know she is burning, and for which several of us share an interest. The right is also concerned about recruiting craftsmen with knowledge and insight into the preservation of older buildings. That is why I found it very pleasing that there is an overall committee that believes that there is a need to facilitate more systematic provision of continuing education and training at the level beyond the letter. When it comes to the main conclusions, the committee, as the case-speaker said, is gathering, but here are a few small differences that I want to never deepen so little. The majority believe that there are many reasons why both colleges and technical colleges should be responsible for taking care of and developing these subjects. In this context, the Committee's members from the Right and the Progress Party recall that the Stortinget has just decided that we should have a new direction in higher education, a level of vocational education that is not an intermediate level but is a parallel to higher education. As this is the most practical part of higher education, we naturally find, as we have said in the comments, that continuing education is provided at this level. Nevertheless, we have no problem joining the main conclusion of a committee, where we ask the Department to come back to this matter with a proposal during 2001. We are fully committed to this, and we will also come back to how best to organize this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e340	It is almost to be regretted that the Storting will once again spend time on a matter that should have been put on the agenda by the Government for the longest time. But the Council of State did not follow up Lilletun’s commitment, with a working group that presented an option called ‘Education in the protection and conservation of older buildings’. The latter was sent to the hearing on 10 June 2000. I had at least expected that the department had mentioned the matter specifically in St.meld. No 20 for 2000-2001. Furthermore, I would like to ask, where has it been from the hearing opinions? Was there no such thing, or were they not worth mentioning? Nor in the answer given by the Council of State to the Committee's question concerning Document No. 8:49, the views of the hearing bodies are mentioned. Unfortunately, I think this testifies to the fact that the ministry's commitment in this area is rather lukewarm. I would like to mention that all of Oppland's big candidates in the election campaign in 1997 answered yes to questions about whether they would work so that Hjerleid's secondary school in Dovre should become a centre of expertise in the old crafts sector. This school has 115-year-old traditions in this area. There is probably reason why the members of the Committee have received a separate letter from Hjerleid's secondary school with attachments from the Centre for Building Culture, highlighting the prerequisites for this school to take on an extended training and/or study offer in the field of building protection. It is also clear with the county municipality. Of course, I am aware that it is a county municipal matter to ensure professional offer at a higher level, and there are of course several schools with good competence and prerequisites to conduct such training as is mentioned here. In any case, it is an overall responsibility to ensure that small and protective subjects are secured and cared for. Reform 94 was unable to capture this – that’s the problem. That is why new policy initiatives, such as today's case, must be an example, as is the case with small and protective subjects, which the rapporteur has taken the initiative in the past. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a separate case on how to organise the education offer in the field of building protection, and where responsibility is allocated to the different levels. However, it is illogical to establish continuous training if there is no basic training at the bottom. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether he will take an initiative with the social partners to assess a learning course in e.g. lofting, which is a very topical field of work in the field of building protection. Or does the Council of State consider this to involve itself in the areas of competence of the parties? If the answer is yes to this last one, I understand those who say, "Why do we have politicians?" I am aware that in my article I have mixed both initial and continuing training. But I've done that with intent. It shows the broad-spectrum need this represents. With its medieval project, the Riksantikvar has had both beginners and skilled people under training. A project at the Lands Museum and the National University of Northern Land shows the same trend. – It is interesting that the hill has such a versatile background. There are both professionals, roofers, museum staff, teachers and forest users, who say the course manager there. I know well about this project, because the museum contacted me to get help to get this started last autumn. It has been a pleasure to register the many enquiries I have received on this matter, both earlier and later. I'm even invited to a Nordic crafts seminar next week. Last night I got a phone call from an engaged person from Valdres who had been with me and registered 7 000 old buildings only in Valdres. The common approach is to raise concerns about the lack or lack of competence of a number of subjects in the field of building protection based on real craftsmanship. Some examples: woodwork with laving, masonry with dry-walling, clay-walling, lime-walling etc., forged with art and ornaments, tools, rolling etc., roofing with emphasis on older markings such as slates, stone, shavings, neves etc., painting with laser, reeding and similar techniques. I end here, but the list could have been a lot longer. I see, by the way, that in the evening post on Sunday it says about the refurbishment of the Castle, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The agenda also concerns the establishment of a Nordic knowledge base with craftsmen who master old construction and decoration traditions. During the refurbishment of the Castle, it turned out that we lacked competence in some craftsmanship, but that it was possible to pick up professionals in other countries." This is almost so that you can call it a shame that we have not managed to take care of that competence in our own country. Knowledge from the old craftsmen has not been claimed for a long time. Theoretical learning provision alone does not lead to practical solutions. Such solutions depend on the repatriation of learning provision on a craft basis in these subjects. Here, a distinction must be made between creative craftsmanship, so-called hand-held competence, and routine industrial production, claims the Centre for Building Culture. This does not preclude the need for scientific evidence on the crafts side. Not all subjects fit into an A4 structure. We have to endure having some so-called specialities at several levels of education. This is my challenge to the Council of State. In its reply letter to the Committee, the Ministry says that it will ask the College of Southern Trøndelag and the Gjøvik College to assess the possibilities for developing a continuing training offer for craftsmen in the field of building protection. Assessing opportunities is very weak in my opinion. I expect the government to come up with some more firm measures after the decision to collapse today, where the importance of the competence in building protection is made clear. Not least, this is an important element in a holistic cultural memory perspective. Upland has 1/5 of all the peaceful and protective buildings in the country. The Gudbrand Valley and the Valdres stand in a special position, and we also top up the statistics on medieval churches and protected churches. This is of course a contributing reason for my involvement in this matter, and I look forward to that department coming back to Stortinget when I'm not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e364	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e380	Culture is important to our identity, our quality of life and our competence. Participation in cultural activities provides both help in interpreting reality and inspiration for rethinking. It is particularly important that at an early stage in life, as much as possible experience just this, music and theatre played by living musicians and actors and a most authentic presentation of our history and past through good museums. Art and culture give us different qualities. Creative and performing artists give us experiences of joy, inspiration, and reflection. Archives, libraries and museums are responsible for the long-term preservation and dissemination of cultural expressions in a broad sense. This is part of and creates security for our own identity and culture, which is important ballast in meeting with other cultures. It is by creating precisely this security that we can prevent the emergence of foreign fear, for which it has so far been far too well grounded in our country. Multicultural tolerance and willingness to accept cultural differences could also prevent the increased violence we see today. A school that doesn't care about this is a school that doesn't develop the whole human being. Unfortunately, it must be noted that the Norwegian school has not taken this seriously. Compared to other countries, we have seen many examples of Norwegian school being far behind in the field of art, culture and music. I'm glad this is about to turn around. Reform 97 has laid the foundation and shows that cooperation between cultural life and school is strengthened in many municipalities. But still the variations are great around the country. The curriculum provides a basis and aims. Its name is, among other things, training in primary schools shall provide basic knowledge, bring to life the cultural heritage, stimulate the use of cultural heritage and inspire children to make use of the local culture. This is a fine and good goal that the Storting has helped to set. The government's commitment, the cultural school bag, I see as an important contribution to achieving just these goals the curriculum is lifting up. It will enrich and strengthen the learning environment for each student, and it will be an important contribution to improving the quality of the Norwegian primary school. The cultural school system is assumed to be developed in close cooperation between the municipality, arts and culture and the school system. Therefore, the national bet as such must provide a basis for local art and cultural life. It is therefore necessary to provide a wide range of local variations. In 1998 a working group, the Eikemo Committee, was set up to monitor the legalisation of the provision of music and cultural education in municipalities. Their mandates included: to examine proposals for models of content, organisation and cooperation between music and cultural schools, primary schools, school leisure schemes, kindergartens and the voluntary provision of culture for children and young people. In the spring of 1999, the selection presented its study, "Cultural School – the art piece in the community's commitment to a richer local environment." Many good proposals are presented in the study that will strengthen this cooperation, and that will provide children and young people with a better supply of music, art and culture, with the very basis of what is now in the cultural schools. In the light of the initiative of the Government now presenting and signalling through the cultural school system, I ask the Council of State to give its view of the recommendations made by the Eikemo Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e406	The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture are constantly working together on a national commitment to culture in the school under the name of the Cultural School. The aim is to give children and young people in primary school greater access to different cultural expressions and even to participate in cultural activities. The cultural school system will make an important contribution to the implementation of the primary school curriculum and to enriching and strengthening the learning environment of pupils. The measures will be developed in close cooperation with municipalities and the school community. The Ministry has received many input and proposals related to the development of the cultural school bag, and an Idea conference was held with 170 participants on 26 February this year. Following consultation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, a working group has been set up to carry out a professional assessment of models of cultural ‘school bags’, ‘host packages’ and similar at county and municipal level, taking into account the quality and the value of the measures. The Group shall also carry out the preparation of an idea catalogue or an example collection to be available to schools and cultural institutions before the start of the school in the autumn of 2001. The material is made available via the Internet via Kulturnet Norway and the School Network with a continuous update of information. Since 1983, the size has allocated earmarked funds to municipal music schools. It contributed to the strong development of music schools both in scope and content. In 1998, it was statutory for all municipalities, either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities, to have a music and cultural education offer for children and young people, organised in connection with the school system and other cultural life, cf. Section 13-6 of the Training Act. 429 out of 435 municipalities and Svalbard had established music and cultural schools in the school year 1999-2000. For the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 1992-93, «...we smaa, en alen lang...», the majority of the church, education and research committee concluded that municipalities should facilitate cooperation between the music school, kindergarten, primary school and local music life. Municipalities that want to do so can put in other cultural expressions as part of a collective art, cultural and music school offer for children and young people. The school year 2000-2001 has produced other cultural expressions in excess of 300 municipalities. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research appointed a working group in 1998 to summarise experiences from experiments with music schools and experiments with art schools and other cultural activities. The working group was to prepare proposals for content and organisation models that could contribute to the good organisation and content development of the offer of music and culture schools. It was to prepare proposals for models of cooperation between music and cultural schools and kindergartens, schools, school leisure schemes and the voluntary cultural offer for children and young people, and to prepare draft guidance on the organisation and content of the future music and cultural school offer. The working group, the Eikemo Committee, was chaired by Odd Eikemo, and the investigation was presented in February 1999. The Committee presented proposals for the further development of music and cultural schools related to the scope, content, organisation and availability of music, cooperation within each municipality, intermunicipal cooperation, national offers and management and staff needs. The Committee also promoted proposals for financial organisation. The Ministry sent the inquiry to the hearing on 1 September of the same year. It came in approx. 250 hearing opinions from municipalities, county councils, education offices, various stakeholder organisations, trade unions, universities and higher education institutions and other departments. The hearing opinions mainly support the investigation, but with some reservations. In some questions, opinions break in several directions. Music and cultural schools have had and are of great importance to children and young people and to local cultural life. I want to work to further develop the music and cultural schools, and that the offers can be included as a natural part of the local design of the cultural school bag. The Eikemo Committee’s investigation and its consultation provide a good basis for this. The Eikemo Committee's investigation is based on extensive and thorough work and contains a number of proposals that can help municipalities in their efforts to further develop quality music and cultural education. The investigation has such an important indicative function. The Ministry will contribute to making the report available by publishing it on Odin. The hearing opinions of municipalities and their education offices underline that the municipalities are responsible for determining the content, scope and organisation of the offer of music and culture schools. I agree. Municipalities must have a great deal of freedom of action when it comes to the design of the offers. The range of offers to be made by the music and cultural schools, the scope of the offers and the organisation and organisation of the offers must be adapted to the needs of the users and to the local framework conditions, cf. Government's commitment to the renewal of the public sector, work on simplification. However, the Eikemo Committee’s investigation and consultation show that municipalities need more information, guidance and vocational education related to the work of music and cultural schools. As referred to in § 13-6 of the Training Act, municipalities are required either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities to have a music and cultural school offer for children and young people, organised in connection with the school system and local cultural life. It will also be a task for municipalities and local cultural life to design the local editions of the Cultural School. Local traditions, housing patterns and population structure require different services. There are and will be great differences between what those living in the Vinje municipality in Telemark want, and what offers those living in Trondheim or the Church want. I will contribute to the establishment of horizontal cooperation between the school and cultural sectors at all levels of administration for the development of the cultural school system. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research will continue to cooperate on this subject. In regional information, guidance and dissemination responsibilities towards municipalities, both the county municipality and the state education offices will have important roles. It is natural to see information and guidance tasks related to the music and cultural schools in the light of St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001, municipality, county, state — a better division of tasks, and the outcome of its treatment. The level of cooperation between local and county authorities on the coordination of the various arts and cultural services should be further developed. At municipal level, provision should be made to link different cultural offerings to the school, including those offered in the music and cultural schools. The Eikemo Committee's investigation is a support for further work both locally and centrally. As I said earlier, I believe that the investigation provides support and inspiration for the local development of the music and cultural schools. On a central level, I will ensure that the investigation is included both in the development of the cultural school bag and in the further development of the music and cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e444	It's good to hear that the Government and the Council of State are so committed to this very area. There is reason to believe that something can happen in a positive direction, so that we can move on towards a better offer of music, culture and art for children and young people. As far as follow-up to the Eikemo Committee is concerned, of course, this is always the case with municipal autonomy. The dilemma facing policymakers is that they want to have control and equality of supply in the municipalities to have room for local variation and to have confidence in local self-government. I agree with what the Government and the Council of State are adding in terms of local self-government, and at the same time I think it is positive that the Council of State will contribute to information, guidance, schooling and coordination across agencies. There will be a positive contribution to the follow-up to the Eikemo Committee, so that something concrete will happen with this fine investigation and all the good proposals that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e451	It is I, the Minister of Culture and the Government who have a great commitment to these issues. I myself have seen through my own upbringing and my own community how much a cultural school, a music school, can mean. Trondheim Municipal Music and Culture School has been a pioneer in this area and has trained generations of skilled musicians who have meant tremendously to cultural life not only in Trondheim but throughout the country. Many music schools have come after, and subsequently the offer has also been extended to several cultural expressions. That's why it's a strong commitment to the music and culture schools. What's always the dilemma is, how much can be done centrally, and how much can be done locally? We can facilitate a good economy, a good municipal economy. We can provide good information, dissemination of good ideas, and stimulate different activities, but the primary responsibility for designing the local activity should and must be local. We know that there are a lot of local politicians who also have a strong commitment to the music and culture school, fortunately. Without it it would have been completely impossible to get to this kind of bet. But at the same time, we focus on this debate, that we keep it alive, that we're drivers, I think it's also important to get a real music and cultural school offer for all children. I think there's a lot to learn from a closer cooperation between the music and cultural schools and the ordinary schoolwork. There is also a lot to be gained by working together between the music and cultural schools and the rest of the world. The aim must be for all children to have a proper upbringing, to have the opportunity to engage in cultural activities and to have the ballast that this school can provide for children and young people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e460	Culture and music touch everyone. It's home for parties and celebrations, but it's also absolute in everyday life. It needs to enter our minds, and as a result, we experience at the same time a community with other people across all borders, languages and ages. The fact that Stortinget legislates that all municipalities should provide a musical and cultural sphere leads to a wide range of Norwegian cultural life. This engages and enthusiasts, and many of our performers today have just started their careers in a municipal music school. I have recorded that when many people are interviewed in newspapers and weekly newspapers and answer questions about what kind of talent they should have, almost always give the same answer, that they should like to be able to play an instrument, learn to dance, or be creative and creative with their hands. In 1970, there were 12 municipal music schools. In 1997, this number increased to 357. Today, then, all municipalities have such an offer. This shows that the upsurge of the municipal music and cultural ball is great, and that this offer hits many. Another factor is that the cost of such training is the same for everyone, both poor and rich. Fortunately, it is no longer such that cultural education is only for those who have well-being parents. But here we're going to be a little bit on guard. The fact that the government’s government has now remained unchanged since 1991 has led to the fact that most municipalities today take a total of $1,600 a year. Such an attribute corresponds to about 20 pst. of the expenditure and is now the double of that for which the Eikemo Committee went into its proposal for financial organisation. In the course of the 2001 government budget treatment, the Labour Party pointed out that the Eikemo Committee’s delegation, which is to be followed up at State level, must be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, e.g.: in the urban economic proposition this spring or in the State budget for 2002. This must be followed up, and I was pleased to report that the Council of State said that the ministry could facilitate a good economy. Finally, I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly states that he will place great emphasis on the Eikemo Committee's distribution in the development of the cultural school system and in the further development of the music and cultural sphere. It promises good for the future of the cultural and music spheres.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e480	Culture in school is important for the development of the whole human being. That was the perspective of Rikke Lind's interpellation. It's a perspective that I'm sharing in full. Therefore, cooperation between schools and cultural schools and other local cultural life is important. I was quite surprised when the government proposed a new cultural initiative in school without clarifying the role of the music and cultural schools in this project. In the Christian People's Party we wondered that the cultural school bag came, and that the cultural schools had no defined role there. We have therefore also said in the budget position of the Church, Education and Research Committee of the State Budget for 2001 that the cultural schools should be a partner and have a role in this effort. I registered that the Labour Party did not formulate itself in this way in the budget position. On the other hand, I have listened with interest to what the Council of State has said today. Culture schools are and should be a central player in giving children and young people cultural interest and commitment. We have many examples of artists who have their background in cultural schools, and the Council of State also emphasized itself in this context. I also meet several children who through the cultural schools get a richer life and develop new aspects of themselves. We now need to provide cultural schools with a safer and more predictable financial basis. I would particularly like to point to two relationships. Firstly, the hourly rate of government subsidies has remained still for many years. In the context of the revised national budget, the Christian People's Party will further assess this grant rate. Secondly, the earmarked grant should be retained until the financial basis is better secured. The Christian People's Party does not agree with the Government's proposal in the paper on the division of tasks, to include this earmarked grant in the framework funding for municipalities now. The Eikemo Committee has outlined a level of parental payment, 10 pst., which seems reasonable from a distribution policy perspective. The economy of parents should not hinder the participation of children in cultural schools. For the time being, however, there should be co-financing between municipalities and countries, and the State should increase its support. The Council of State stated that he wanted to strengthen the role of cultural schools in the local work on the cultural school system, and he spoke of taking the position of the Eikemo Committee in the ministry's work on the cultural school system. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify the role that cultural schools play in the ministry's work on the national initiative, the cultural school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e495	I never stop wondering about the distance between rhetoric and action after listening to five workers' party representatives and comparing this with what they have actually done. During the budget procedure in the autumn of 2000, the Committee of the Regions, all the non-participating Labour Party – all the non-participating Labour Party – decided that the Government should present a case to the Stortinge, on the basis of the report under discussion today, the Eikemo Committee's 1999 decision. The plural recommendation came as a result of a Right initiative. The Labour Party went against this, and said that most of the proposals from the Eikemo selection are input to the municipalities. However, any proposals to be followed up at State level may be submitted to the Size. I therefore found it positive that the representative Lind no take up this matter and challenge the Council of State on the limp and half-heart hold that the Labour Party has shown in this matter. So to the realities of the cultural effort in the school. The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, said that the equity stakes are too high, and the representative, Lyngstad, followed this up. But then there's reason to remind you that the Right was standing all by itself about a proposal in the budget last autumn to increase the hourly rate of music and art balls, a matter which is a major matter for the Council of Culture Schools. The rate has not been regulated in the last ten years, and it is probably the most important single measure we can do to increase the spread of cultural and music balls to Norwegian elephants. The big gimmick in connection with the Ministry of Culture's budget was the proposal for a cultural school bag, which, after the pre-advertisement, would imply a whole revolution when it came to bringing art and culture into school life. It's been proposed for $15 million. However, the draft budget contains nothing about how to use the money, other than to prepare a brochure. The government's proposal got mixed reception in Stortinget. Right would increase the permissions to 30 million. kr and use funds for visiting cultural activity in the school. So directly to the interpellation of the representative Lind. It's hard to see the connection between the Cultural School and the Municipal Cultural and Music Balls. Same way you think about the school bag, this must mean that you have to take every student with measures that must have an ad hoc character. On the other hand, cultural and musical spheres will depend on permanent arrangements that last longer, while, unfortunately, it is an illusion to believe that the cultural and musical spheres will be available to all the elephants, even if this is desirable. A strengthening of the cultural and music sphere will be an important task for the Right in the years to come, and I sincerely hope that the Labour Party will now follow this in action, in the light of all the fine words we have heard today.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e510	The aim of the cultural school system is to strengthen and develop cooperation between primary school and cultural life in municipalities, says the Government. I noticed that it was the Minister of Culture who promoted the proposal for the cultural school bag last fall. It is tempting to ask about this bottom line in that it was thin with other new things in the proposal submitted in the cultural sector. But today, the Minister of Education gets the chance to say what he wants from this bag. I am referring to the fact that the Central Party in the budget discussion felt that the funds proposed for the cultural bag could have been better used. For example, we should. raising the rate of grants to the cultural schools, which has remained unchanged for 10 years, so that more students could benefit from the offers made by the municipal cultural and music schools. What does the Workers' Party really mean about this? The idea of the cultural school bag was given Prime Minister Stoltenberg visibly from an action in Sandefjord. According to St.prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Culture promised in a speech in Bergen last summer that all children would have such a backpack. It would include meetings with live music and theatres, meetings with the past and present in the local community — which is also relevant to the previous case. There's nothing to say about the goal, but what's the result? It remains to be seen. In the last edition of the KUFCurrent, it says that there is a lot of good happening in the municipalities, but «However, there is a need to group the projects into one model because the offers to children today are unevenly distributed». Does the Workers' Party mean directing the municipalities into one model, or what is the explanation of this statement? Local variations, said the interpellant, were important, and I agree with that. What, then, do we want with the local maritime administration if there is to be one model for the cultural school sector? According to an e-mail received by the Norwegian Council of Culture Schools, they hope that the ‘debate on the ‘cultural school bag’ will contribute seriously to the search for the place of the cultural school in this big initiative’. The Norwegian Cultural School Council also says: ‘For us, it is completely incomprehensible that a school team that has actively worked on art and culture in school – in close cooperation with leisure culture and the other schoolwork – has not, at any time, been involved in the national cultural and educational efforts of the Ministry of Culture at school. A work which has been internationally noted and which has given Norway the designation of honor «The country of Music School».» It will be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on why the professional body Norsk Kulturskolerat was not included in the government's initiative. According to Kufcurrent, this Council is also not included in the working group to create an Idea catalogue. It's alarming. It is very positive that culture in school is put on the agenda. Apprenticeship 97 is very ambitious in this area, but it is a long way to go before you can implement your intentions. Then it has to be more money for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e536	It is important to support and promote culture and creativity in school life. If the cultural school bag is also meant as part of the ordinary school, there is reason to ask questions about which subjects and curricula we should find space in. We would like to remind you that there is a lot of culture and many cultural achievements outside the Ministry of Culture, and not least outside the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. We are constantly receiving despairing heartaches from teachers who are not allowed to develop their own learning schemes, which are tied to the hands and feet of curricula that give too little room for just creativity. The student organisations recently stated that students are being intimidated from the teaching profession because it is perceived to be boring. Several school trials are rejected by the Ministry because they do not aim at changes in national legislation. It's time for creativity throughout the school. The fact is that there is a lot of creativity, but often it doesn't get to unfold because the curricula, the traditional curricula, are full of school days. It is important to ensure that all schoolchildren, no matter where they live in the country, are encouraged to develop an active and positive relationship to a broad repertoire of cultural achievements, and we have to give schools leeway. Let's not just figure out a common national cultural syllabus. I refer to the report «Cultural School – the art piece in the community's commitment to a richer local environment», where one of the proposals is to design a national curriculum for cultural schools. If this means a curriculum in today's form and with today's level of detail, I fear the commitment of the teachers. SV has too much respect for the teaching community to want such detailed management of the content. SV hopes that the State Council will open up local initiative and locally defined content. We have enough examples of the government holding on to a nationally defined subject and is very reluctant to approve various trials in school that are just about to promote creativity. The cultural school bag is a chance, and we must not try to develop national curricula on this part. Then there's also reason to remember that there's a relationship between culture and that this costs money. We assume that the good intentions expressed here are followed up in the budgetary procedure. A strong boost for the education sector is needed, and it would be the best way to stimulate the cultural school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e550	It is important to stress that cultural education and schooling together can provide a real boost to cultural life throughout the country. The Culture School offers individual training and practice within different cultural expressions outside the ordinary school. The cultural school system shall offer arts and cultural experiences at professional level to all pupils in the ordinary school system. The interaction between experiences for everyone and the practice for those who want it provides a good starting point for cultural growth and the emergence of new art environments throughout the country. In the view of the Left, the Government has not contributed to any significant investment in either the cultural school or the cultural school. The so-called investment is currently limited to promises of a catalogue of the cultural school bag. At the same time, fully developed cultural services in schools, such as: the ‘Culturnista’ project in More and Romesdal, on the need to be restricted due to a lack of funds. Neither the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research nor the Ministry of Culture have contributed funds. In the case of the cultural school, there has been no promise despite the law during the central government. The hourly rate has been the same throughout the 1990s. The government has once again announced that it will consider removing the earring, despite the fact that the bulk of the population in the autumn would have a transitional period with a five-year earring for development and escalation. Although the law of the cultural school was a milestone, a law without regulations provides a rather loose foundation and little protection in a situation where the designation disappears. I understand that people in the cultural school community use strong words about the situation they see, and some call this a disaster for the cultural school. Nor does the government seem to take seriously the competences represented by the Norwegian Cultural School Council, or sees the importance of coordination of efforts in the two fields pointed to by the interpellant. It is directly remarkable that the Government has found no reason to ask for representation from the Council of Culture Schools in the working group investigating the cultural school bag. Otherwise, there is reason to wonder that what was proclaimed as a main field of action for the Government of Cultural Policy, the Cultural School, has only been accommodated with a single sentence in the cultural chapter of the Government's long-term programme. It says that through the cultural back pocket, the Government will contribute to strengthening the cultural offer at school. Municipalities and county councils have all developed models themselves. The project is overly mature for realization, and Norwegian schools have an acute need for professional art and art dissemination. I agree with Right-wing Representative Petter Løvik that an obliging bet by the Government is waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e567	I'm glad that this interpellation is drawn to the Minister of Education. I myself was in Cuba a couple of weeks ago, and I was visiting a kindergarten and a children's home. In kindergarten, there were 11⁄2-year-olds who learned how to keep each other round and the steps they should use when dancing salsa. It's pretty early to start, but it turns out you can start already then. In the orphanage it was that once the music came on, the kids started dancing. This shows again in the entire Cuban community. One doesn't stay on a street corner for long, not in a café or a restaurant, but there's one or more orchestras, and the dance foot is quite easy. It is important that young people get this into cultural experiences early. This includes: even if dancing in kindergarten and school, and at least that's what public can do. The cultural sphere is important. I was in the committee at the time when we decided that this would be legalized. I have to say that the result has been much better than I imagined. For the result, there have been a growing number of cultural species in more and more municipalities. In addition, this applies to both children and adults. On New Year's Day, I experienced a jazz band in Klepp, with young people from the early school and growing up, and the conductor and manager of this was an immigrant in his 60s. The cultural school is a collaboration between school and culture. Kids shall learn to experience, listen, see and participate in teams of live artists. It provides experiences for the young, and it provides knowledge and experience for the future, which provides the basis for everyone to experience culture in their adult life. I am pleased that the Council of Churches, Education and Research is involved in this, and his clarifications that the cultural sphere and the cultural school are two sides of the same coin – of course it is. I want to close the government with the escalation of the cultural effort necessary for all the elephants in the Norwegian Elementary School to experience a direct meeting with professional art and culture. I'm glad that the cooperation is good, and I believe that this conflict as an attempt to create here in the hall is theoretical and not practical. These must be two sides of the same thing. We want to bet on the art and culture of children, and I'm pretty sure that theatre experiences, or for that matter a good dance foot, will become even more involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e578	Culture is important in interacting with a wide range of other important factors that relate to knowledge concepts more generally. When the representative Lind claims that the Norwegian school has not taken culture seriously, she has probably thought carefully about the matter. Culture has at all times created both joy and understanding, but also disgust. Culture is perceived differently, and so it must continue to be. Proposing that culture in school costs the same for the poor and rich is an exaggeration, especially because the offer is not dimensioned to give an offer to all children in school. When you know at the same time that $1,600 is a fraction, this is pretty embarrassing. This is one of the reasons why the Progress Party has not prioritised this offer. The perception of culture by children and parents must be given importance so that culture as defined in the extended cultural concept is maintained in an equivalent manner. Therefore, when the term is associated with expressions such as ‘music and culture schools’, it is wrong. School has a responsibility for much more than culture. Priority must be given to schools, where subjects which provide the necessary prerequisites for work and self-development are given their reindeership. The ministry has recently said no to attempts to improve the mathematical-natural sciences of a school. The experiment was to be associated with the University of Oslo and the university studies at Kjeller, our most important research environment in the field. But no! This is out of the question! If there is little money for school in general, the priorities must be embarrassingly accurate and not approximate. And when we know that the level of knowledge of our children and young people is not at all the best in relation to comparable countries in the OECD area, it may be time to admit that something needs to be done, some proper conversations are being conducted and studies are being conducted, and a change in favour of users and not based on ideology must be the important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e593	There are some things and some areas of society that you feel more about than others. I think that's a weakness or a strength, as you see it, as we humans have. When it comes to culture, and I hear the angle of incidence that Rikke Lind has with the whole human being, it's so right. Getting a national bet that covers the whole human being, you shouldn't attack from the point of view that it's not big enough from the beginning. Many of the big bets in the country, many of the right bets, have not been so big from the beginning. You've started, and you've moved on, the results have come, and it's been great. With regard to the results of the cultural effort, I don't think it's just that we're going to get better music quality, that we're going to get more involved, and that the theatres are going to be more visited, but it could also be that the people who are going to go into what's called the dream society, where the thinking and the creativity are in the high seat, will get the courage to use all of themselves. They become safe people, who get to use the sides of themselves that may not be as visible to most people to the everyday. They get the courage to appear and make mistakes. And making mistakes and could dry up helping yourself that way, too, it's of the things that bring society forward. The fact that the whole human being gets into focus with his strong and weak sides and gets to develop both himself, the culture and the rest of society, I think the first step on that path. For me one picture is the little paw standing on the table and singing of full neck, with full boldness, and that dry city upon itself. And then it's the other little paw that also does it, if he just gets to stand behind the door so no one sees him. We have to lure out the little paws that are behind the door, too, and get them into society. We can't afford to miss any of the creative creative force that's part of the whole human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e604	I think this has been a good and interesting debate. All parties, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, have signaled an commitment to culture in school and the cultural and music schools. That's good, because we also need that when we get to the budgetary procedure. I get touched when I hear Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt's story about these two-year-olds who learn the salsa. It's one of the things we also want to have into our kindergartens and our schools, that at the earliest possible time, we're going to give children experiences and opportunities to meet art, culture and music in a way that you haven't arranged for. I find that there is commitment from a broad majority, even though I feel that there is some skepticism from the centre, perhaps primarily because the cultural school bag was not invented by themselves. It wasn't that much that came the two years they were in government. But now something has come, and I think that gradually the commitment to this project comes from them too. It's interesting that there's a majority of the political parties that have signaled that this is what they want to spend more money on, and then I also hope that the majority is there when we get to the next crossroads later. Rolf Reikvam says this in a good way: "The cultural school bag is a chance." Let's get that chance, pull it together, and get this to be a good project. I think that this debate has shown that we are going to get there, not least by the fact that the Council of State is going to follow up the position of the Eikemo Committee in an appropriate and good manner and contribute to filling the cultural school bag so that it becomes a good project.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e622	Like the interpellant, I am pleased with the strong commitment that is here in the hall for both the cultural and music schools, and for the work that the Government has undertaken to get a cultural school bag across the country. It is correct, as the representative Tingelstad said, that Norway is the ‘Music School Country’. This is due to long-term and laborious work, mainly locally, but also from a central point of view, in order to provide the economic framework conditions that have made it possible to create an offer that often calls us the ‘Music School Country’. Now we've expanded it to a broader cultural concept, but we're also working on getting culture more into the ordinary schoolwork. It was asked here if we wanted one model. Now it might be a little bit different if we want one model, or if we want a model. There are many places in the country where you still have not got a proper job with a cultural school bag or some cultural work in the ordinary school. Then it might be good to have a model to work after, although of course we should not say that it should be like this all over the country. We have courageous municipalities that have gone ahead, and Sandefjord is probably the municipality that is primarily used as an example in the development of a cultural school bag. There may be one way to do it, but I am absolutely convinced that each school and every place will have to use its local cultural powers and its local conditions in order to make a good offer to children and young people. Of course, the cultural and music school could be used in this work. It's also going to be different from place to place, and so people have to figure it out locally. The most important thing in the cultural school system is that the ordinary school system is able to take cultural work seriously and provide students with a real offer. Of course, it will be crucial, as Mr Løvik mentioned, that you have a good economy. Increasing the rate of grants may be one way of dealing with it, but the general municipal economy will ultimately be crucial for the ability to invest in these types of measures, both in cultural schools and in the ordinary school system. I am happy to have got this opportunity to figure out something about our work with the Eikemo Committee's settings. I am absolutely convinced that we will come back to these matters on many occasions, but of course especially in budgetary work. I am pleased with the enthusiasm and the support this work has in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e635	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e647	Today, most young people between 16 and 17–18 years of age dream of a motorcycle or car certificate. This dream is the bulk of the population now in the process of taking it from them. And what's perhaps the most tragic thing about this is that it's the Workers' Party that's at the head that those who have the worst advice should be the first to fail to fulfill their dream of taking a sertif cat in the future. It is precisely this party that is first in celebrations and calls for social distribution, that everyone should have the same opportunities, and that young people should be given priority. But as you know, it's far from party speeches to reality. The two most important things that will happen when VAT is introduced in driving school education are, first of all, the fact that the majority of young people lose the dream of a certificate, the ability to drive a motorcycle or a car and the freedom to move in society effectively. Secondly, the introduction of VAT on driving school training will result in many cutters leaving driving schools, or they will take fewer hours to take a certificate. This makes it easy for them to take several driving hours together with parents, comrades or others they may pay ‘black’ to provide driving training for a lower payment. All of these people that I mentioned are largely without a professional background, and therefore they cannot fully take over for authorized driving school teachers. As a result, we get worse drivers. Is that what the Storting wants? I do not know, but at least that is not what the Progress Party wants. The size has used a lot of sound public health to produce laws and regulations so that, as a result of driver training through driving schools, fewer road accidents and thus fewer injuries and deaths will occur. By means of a single decision, the Storting is responsible for destroying this objective. It should be reasonably clear to most people that when you increase the price by 24 pst, it will lead to fewer users of the service. It is precisely this price mechanism that the majority of population use as a basis for reducing alcohol consumption or tobacco consumption. The prices of these products are being increased to make the population use less of them or stop using them. It is precisely the same mechanism that works in this area of VAT – higher prices lead to fewer use of driving schools. Driving up to a certificate costs $15,000 to $20,000 for a youth today. This is money that the youth has either obtained through summer work, they have used parts of the commitment gifts, or – perhaps the worst – they have used large parts of the study loan and the scholarship to obtain a certificate. This last is already a reality today. When the price goes up by 24 pst, it goes beyond the student loan, which in turn can lead to the individual not being able to complete the studies. For me, it is a paradox that the political parties on the Stortinget are constantly promoting and promising more money for studies, more money in student loans and scholarships. Yes, some political parties even go out and want to limit how much each student should work at the same time as he or she is studying. Does the majority in this room think that the introduction of VAT in driving school training leads to the student having to work less? Or do the majority think that in case the students will get more in scholarships or in student loans, will go to studies? No, in fact, this money will go to pay the government a fee. Those who have come so far in life that they are above the first youth, and who decide to become a driver of the profession, will get a big hit. The price for driving up to a certificate of category CE and/or DE will quickly reach NOK 35000 to NOK 40000. It's also a paradox. Through numerous decisions and through schemes such as student loans and scholarships, the size of the population has helped to obtain a profession through education and, furthermore, to obtain a letter of formal qualifications. But those who take a personal initiative and themselves finance their education, like those who take the certificate to drive heavier vehicles, they don't get such help or clapping on the shoulder from the public. No, they get a price increase of 24 pst. in charge to the State! This is high-level logic, a logic I don't understand. Of course, the progress party is opposed to the introduction of VAT in driving school training. I am referring to the proposal on this point. I see that the representatives of the Christian People's Party have left the hall, but I know that the Christian People's Party Arne Lyngstad participated with an article at the Security Traffic Conference here in Oslo yesterday. And to a great deal of joy from the hall Arne Lyngstad asserted that the Christian People's Party will go against the introduction of VAT for driving schools. The proposal is here. The possibility of voting against this introduction of VAT is here. I want to see them do that, and I want to get a comment from Lyngstad as to whether he stands on what he said at the Security Traffic Conference, or whether he led the conference behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e666	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e669	It was truly empty in the hall when this matter was to be raised. The representatives of the Workers' Party left the Chamber in a quick order, and the only one who is sitting back is the Minister of Finance. The Christian People's Party's representatives stood still out the door. They have already forgotten the promises they made at the National Conference of Safety Traffic last night. So fast it's going to be about promising things, and so fast it's going to be about forgetting things. I want to draw attention to an article that is in the VG today. There, the Kosmo State Council says that he now recommends people not to drive trains – not to drive trains! The Minister of Finance is about to make car and car use so expensive that we can't afford it either. And what are we going to do? One state council makes it too expensive to drive a car, and another says that he will not recommend us to drive a train. I guess a lot of people would say yes, then they'll get a bus. But what does the Council of State Gustavsen do? Well, he makes the NSB a monopoly. The bus companies who want to have a concession and run in parallel with the railway are not allowed. And where do we stand? We will not drive trains, we will not be allowed to drive a car, it will be too expensive, and we will not allow the bus companies to establish themselves. So what's the score? I wonder if the Minister of Finance might want us to go back to using a horse and ride after the road. I guess that's what's going to be the result. Today it is a paradox that out of 40 billion DKK as the Minister of Finance takes in on car and car use – 40 billion kroner! – there is just about 10 billion kroner going on, both for operation, maintenance and for the construction of new roads. And today it's about VAT on driving training, as if it's not already expensive enough. Now it's going to be 24 pst. more expensive. And who is particularly affected? Well, it's the youth, who's already referred to driving around in old car wrecks. The average age of cars today is ten years. And who is driving the cars that are in the category over ten years? Yes, it's the youth. And how are young people, older people or others going to move around the countryside at all? I guess that should be a theme for the Center Party. They can't go to a party, they can't visit their old parents at home, and they don't come to the store, because there's no public transport in the village. It's utopia. Governments can sit here in Oslo and look out of their fine windows. There they can see both trams, buses, trains, T-Bahns and everything that is, but in the village we have nothing. And now it's going to be so expensive that we don't even get a certificate. Then soon the last line is set for everything called transportation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e683	The issue in question is a mixture of economics and commerce, i.e. money and road safety. In addition to being an alternate in this House, I am also the rapporteur of the Royal Norwegian Automobile Club. We take road safety seriously, and I also hope that this assembly does. As I see it, it is important to increase driving training and increased driving training in relation to what is common practice today. In the time I took a certificate, it was difficult to have as few hours as possible. It was supposed to prove that someone could drive a car, and it rarely had an economic aspect. Today we have some of the same problem, but it has essentially an economic aspect. It's about doing as few hours as possible, because you can't afford anything else. Then you try to learn how to drive a car in a completely different way from the one that is safe and safe. I would encourage this hall to take the zero vision seriously and leave the traffic training free, so that we can get better and longer driving training, safer roads and safe road users. So we can satisfy the zero vision if no one killed in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e694	There can certainly be good reasons for exempting driving schools from VAT, as several of the representatives here have been involved. We have had a number of Document Nos. Eight proposals for treatment after Christmas that have covered exemptions in slightly different areas. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance has issued regulations in relation to the VAT reform at the hearing. It was also established in the budget for last autumn that the Stortinget will take a final view on the design of the VAT system in relation to the revised national budget in some areas. We therefore have in other contexts where Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals, rejected the proposals that have been promoted, on the grounds that we want to see things in a whole. And we'll do that in this context as well. I do not want to go into the argument now, but I would just like to inform you that the central parties are going to vote against the proposal here, on the grounds that we will look at it in full under the agreement that we entered into during the budgetary procedure last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e704	The representative, Mr Enoksen, speaks so warmly that he wants to see everything in one whole, and therefore he cannot go for Document No. Eight proposals that are presented in the hall here. There's too many of them, and then you can't clearly see a whole. But what did the central parties do just after they entered into the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party? Have they forgotten? Just after the famous whole was nailed in this hall, the Center Party turned around. And why did they do that? Well, then it went out on just the farmers. Then it applied to the business cycle fee and a lot of other things. Then they were quickly on the plate here and turned. It's strange that the center party, which is really occupied with the rurals' woes and well and will have settlements and jobs in the countryside, won't go in to make it cheaper for people to drive a car. It's a remarkable thing. But it is well because the farmers drive a tractor that uses free diesel, and then they don't care about anything else. I think we would have heard another song here in the hall if we had introduced a fee on the diesel for tractors. Then Enoxen had been on the track quickly, and then he had probably not seen so much on the whole. So I think it's a strange representation of the representative Enoch.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e711	It was a good attempt to take things out of context. It has not at all been decisive for our position in this matter. We have, as I say, concluded a budget agreement in which we have said on a number of points that we should return to a comprehensive review of the revised national budget. So we don't go into individual matters. We've also said that in other contexts. We want to see things as a whole, and the considerations pointed out here by the representative Nistad, and also a number of other considerations to be taken into account in the design of the VAT reform. We will therefore come back to the realities of the revision of the national budget, which I have announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e718	We want to see things in context and in a whole, says Enoxen. I actually thought that the treatment of the state budget was the case where you could see as much as possible in a whole. After the state budget was dealt with, the centre parties have been world champions in running away from what they decided. The first thing they did was to remove the cyclical charge, because it hit them themselves – it suited them to remove it there and then. And then they keep going. Now there are other things that are in place. That's what the VAT is. Here we have made several proposals, where it has been seen that the whole they talked about at the time has not turned on – it has been shown to be biased, to put it more correctly. So now we've suggested that we get away from VAT in driving schools. I would like to ask Mr Enoxen whether it will be that if there are no proposals in the revised national budget that exempt, among other things. the driving schools, in which case the Centre Party will take the initiative to promote a new Document No. Eight proposals to eliminate VAT in driving schools? It was a question for the Center Party. Then I see that representatives of the Christian People's Party have come into the Chamber again, and then I want to ask the question I asked, as the hall was empty for the KrFs. The Christian People's Party participated with Arne Lyngstad at the Trygg Traffic National Conference yesterday, where Lyngstad to a great deal of cheer from the hall claimed that the Christian People's Party would oppose the introduction of VAT in driving schools. The thing is right here, so you can vote against this. Then my question is, Is it enough a festive Christian People's Party has held, or are there realities in what they say?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e729	In the context of the examination of the revised national budget, it is not necessary to promote Document No. Eight proposals. That's the difference in the way the Progress Party now chooses to deal with the budget, and the way that most of us do it. In the context of the examination of the budget and the revised national budget, proposals may be made in the vote, which may then be approved or fallen in the Chamber. As I have said, we will come back to the discussion of this matter in the context of the revised national budget. The Party of Progress need not worry about the need to promote Document No. Eight proposals or not. A common proposal may be promoted during the examination of the revised national budget. That should be well-known.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e737	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e740	At least it's commendable that the Center Party goes to the pulpit and says its point. It's honest and fair, and I appreciate it. Now we've asked Christian People's Party several times what they meant by the statement they made yesterday, that they don't want VAT on driving training. It's not many days since we saw the representative Steensnæs on TV 2. Then he promised to strengthen public transport by NOK 2.5 billion. What did the Christian People's Party do in connection with the national transport plan, which was issued just a few months ago? In the setting the 2.5 billion were not mentioned at all. And then I stumble a little bit. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is now just going out and legislating on every occasion where some journalist sits and listens to them, but when it comes to the realities here in the Chamber and that they are going to vote on matters, the Christian People's Party is voting against what they have said publicly? It's honest and honest what the Center Party says, I appreciate it. But we expect an answer from the Christian People's Party. Now there are Christian People's Party representatives present here; there is even one who has the title of incoming, acceding or desirable Prime Minister candidate, and we have not yet received an answer. What does the Christian People's Party do about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e751	A couple of visitors to the Christian People's Party have been made in this debate, and we always thought it was nice. Now I am in the situation that I did not listen to the wording of our representative yesterday to which it was referred, but it is quite clear that our national meeting has expressed a positive opinion on the reality of this. However, when it comes to this specific matter, the situation is that we have a VAT reform for which we have not completed the treatment. We treated the main part of it just before Christmas, and we were going to come back with some demarcation issues. There we wait for an output from the Government, we even instructed the Government to come back with such a closer assessment. We then thought that according to a health issue and according to the procedure that it has been put up for here, it is clear that this question too will be clarified when the whole matter comes back. That's why we won't agree with the concrete proposal that's leading, because that's taking things out of the context that we've been involved in before in putting them into.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e761	I have understood it so that the Christian People's Party actually agrees with our proposal. They have decided at the national meeting that they agree with our proposal, but they will not vote for it. That, of course, is a logical and tactical assessment. Since reference is made to the fact that this case comes up and will be completed in the revised national budget, my question will be: If the Government of the revised national budget does not propose that driving schools be exempted from VAT, can the Christian People's Party say here and now that they will propose that driving schools be exempted from VAT?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e768	I tried in my article to do the right thing for our head posture, both for the question and for the procedure in this. It will then be completely incorrect for me today to prescribe how and in what way we will act when this matter comes up. There will be good and tidy answers when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e773	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e776	Extending the basis for the collection of VAT has proved to be a demanding matter. I don't stop wondering how many rematches it is possible to add to the Storting on a matter that we dealt with before Christmas, where in a very precise way we made the ratio of how much money we should get into the current year's budget, and how much of this money we should spend to cover the costs that the current year's budget now has. With regard to the proposal by the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg, a picture has been drawn of the fact that VAT in the context of driving school is a one-sided cost to be borne by those purchasing driving training. It says, among other things: in the context of the proposal that an increase in the hourly price of up to 24 pst. will be able to be imposed on students who need driving hours. I assume that the proposers are so good at how a VAT system works that they are aware that the investments made by the driving school are, of course, deducted from a VAT system, and that there is therefore a certain additional cost to be passed on, possibly against the customers, provided that no competition between driving schools leads to anything else. With regard to the regulations, which are out for consultation, I assume that those who object to the regulations and how the VAT system is to be practised still have a reasonable opportunity to raise their objections within the time limit for the hearing, which is 11 May. It will also be the case that, for its part, in the context of the revised national budget, the Storting will be given the opportunity to counter those who may have an economic stomach to participate in it. For the Labour Party, it is very good: we are going to vote against the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e800	We're ready for voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e819	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e826	This is a Document No. 8 proposals, which are dealt with directly in the Chamber under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal in document No. 8:94 for 2000-2001 by the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen and Øyvind Korsberg: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for amendments to the VAT Act so that driving schools are not subject to VAT.’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e832	President, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e839	Kjellaug Nakkim will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e842	The right agrees with the proposals of the proposers and believes that driving schools should not be subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-04-24.ana.ud1725e860	There is no record.
