ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e51	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e58	The decision asked the Government to consider ‘proposals that allow the borrower to obtain pre-emption rights when the claim is transferred’ in the context of the treatment of the Financial Contracts Act. Various considerations were identified in the explanatory memorandum, such as: better protection against dealing with new creditors, with the risk of exposure to actors using hard recovery methods. The Banking Law Commission, acting on behalf of the Ministry, has examined the issue. Opinions have been divided and, in part, strong objections have been raised by the hearing bodies on the issue of pre-emption rights. In the light of the objections raised by the Banking Commission and the consultation round, the Ministry of Finance advises against adopting a provision of the Financial Contracts Act on the pre-emption of borrowers. I would like to mention, in brief, some important arguments which the Committee has noted against the introduction of a right of pre-emption: The proposal for a right of pre-emption will mainly apply to the transfer of late and materially defaulted loans to the consumer. Surveys indicate that there are, above all, other trade receivables, such as the purchase of goods and services, which are transferred. This is outside the scope of the pre-emption proposal. A right of pre-emption would be indebted. Pure coincidences such as creditor change will determine which debtors will benefit from this, and there is no guarantee that it is the debtors who need it the most, who get relief from debt. The possibilities for indebtedness and protection of individuals against creditor prosecution shall be based on their overall financial situation and should, in the opinion of the Committee, be provided for by amendments to the Debt Schemes Act, the Bankruptcy Act and/or the Coverage Act. The pricing of receivables transferred, in particular portfolio transfers, is a major problem. Similarly, there are difficulties in finding solutions whereby debt claims due are transferred together with other assets and how to draw the border between business transfer and debt transfer. There are no clear boundaries here. There will be circumvention possibilities here where no clear answer has been found. The Financial Contracts Act initially provides the borrower with a good protection against any undesirable consequences of a creditor change, by requiring the consent of the borrower in the event of the transfer of the loan claim to non-financial institutions and in the event of the right to early payment. This reduces the risk of facing unprofessional operators and harsh recovery methods. Recovery by illegal means must be resolved by criminal law instruments, as the Committee also points out. Proposals for a rule of consent also where a loan claim is transferred to another financial institution have not yet been evaluated. The Committee therefore proposes that this should be assessed. In view of the above-mentioned objections and problems with regard to the proposal for a right of pre-emption, the Committee considers that the intention to protect borrowers can be further best achieved by amending other laws and regulations proposed by the Banking Law Commission and the Ministry, namely amendments to the Debt Collection Act. I also refer to the draft document by Odd Einar Dørum. Despite objections also raised by the Right and the Advance Party, these parties consider that pre-emption rights should nevertheless be introduced, with the uncertainties and directly unsolved problems involved. The Committee is united with the proposal for amendments to the collection legislation which require authorisation for the purchase of claims due and their own funds payable, and that the appropriations be linked to the undertaking. The Committee considers that an extension of the authorisation requirement will allow the control of the person carrying out the acquisition and recovery of claims and thus prevent the granting of authorisation to non-profit institutions and businesses. Furthermore, one would be able to ensure that the beneficiaries are considered fit to carry out activities which comply with the requirements of the law on good debt collection and are subject to supervision. The Committee agrees with the Ministry, which will not recommend to the Banking Law Commission the proposal for rules on the reduction of profits by own-account accounts of purchased receivables and on the limitation of profits by outsourcing. The Committee is in principle in favour of a separate appeal body for debt collection to strengthen the supervision of the collection industry and asks the Ministry to investigate the matter in more detail. The Committee agrees that, at the same time, it is necessary to consider whether the penalties for infringements of good collection practices should be strengthened. The Committee supports the intention to reduce the collection salary and notes that the Ministry will draw up and send proposals to that effect after consultation. It must be emphasised to the recovery industry that recovery does not confer an unconditional right to benefit from the maximum rates for calculating salaries and that in no case may the costs exceed what is ‘necessary’. The Labour Party believes that today's decision by Odelsting will improve the position of borrowers and in particular protect against unprofessional actors, which was the starting point for this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e101	The proposals for amendments to the Debt Collection Act are a follow-up to the Treatment of the Financial Contracts Act by the Storting, which was debated in Odelstinget on 8 June 1999. During the examination of the Financial Agreements Act, proposals were made by the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party on, among others. the purchase of receivables and the right of pre-emption of the borrower. The purpose of the proposals was to protect the borrower from getting worse if the claims against him were transferred to someone else. The Christian People’s Party could not support the proposals at the time because they were not investigated. We went in principle to the Ministry's legislative proposals and supported the subsidiary proposal of the Workers' Party that the proposal should be examined. The Christian People's Party is committed to the protection of the borrower from aggressive recovery methods and has therefore noted with satisfaction that the proposals that the ministry is now promoting are likely to be of at least as important to protect consumers/borrowers as the proposals discussed in the examination of the Financial Contracts Act. The Christian People's Party has noticed that there has been disagreement in the Banking Commission on the need for a pre-emptive rule, and that any pre-emptive right would not be sufficient to ensure the reasons on which the decision was based. It is also important to note that none of the countries surveyed by the Banking Law Commission has pre-emption rules for the borrower. Nor does consent from the borrower be required to transfer the claim. The Christian People's Party is committed to the ever-increasing internationalisation of society, and it is of the utmost importance that Norway has a law that harmonises with other countries in this area. With regard to the issue of the borrower, an offer to meet the claim is made, i.e.: the right of pre-emption in the event of a transfer, the Christian People's Party understands that it may be regarded as adversarial if the claim is transferred to others for an amount that the borrower himself could meet. On the other hand, we would like to point out that it is hardly unreasonable that the borrower is responsible for repaying the money he has actually borrowed. If a right of pre-emption was to be introduced, one might imagine that the borrower speculated in this relationship by training the payment. This would be unfortunate, and simply demoralizing for those involved. In practice, such an arrangement could be seen as a type of debt cancellation which would be an addition to the Debt Schemes Act. That would not be desirable either. The Christian People's Party believes that the changes we are now adopting in the debt collection law should ensure the necessary control and supervision to avoid unprofessional operators in the market. It is a clear objective to prevent a development in which some of the actors have their origins in questionable and/or criminal environments. The legislative changes that are now being adopted will, for example: prevent the activities we have seen in Drammen, where a debt collection agency had its origins from the bandidos MC club. We cannot accept a development in which criminally burdened environments start debt collection activities and resort to brutal methods to recover the requirements – methods that should not be lawful. At all events, collection methods using violence, coercion and threats must be broken down by existing legislation. It's enough of the warrants in the penal code to grab hold of these acts. These are issues for law enforcement and prosecution. Furthermore, it is a goal to ensure that the borrower does not come out worse if a claim is transferred than what he would do if the claim became with the original lender. By providing for debt collection requirements for businesses involved in the purchase and recovery of claims due, and by introducing debt collection appropriations for enterprises instead of personal appropriations, those reasons have been taken into account. In addition, the rapporteur has had a good review of the Committee's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e120	In particular, there is one matter on which the Right has been concerned in this case, and that is to protect the borrower in relation to limiting transfers of claims. It is good to note that the right in this case is more concerned with defending consumers' interests vis-à-vis credit institutions and torpedoes than the Workers' Party. It's not so surprising for some of us, but for others it might be useful to notice this. The right is, in effect, dependent on the debtor’s being entitled to pre-emption when the original credit institution wishes to dispose of claims to third parties. For the Right, it is simply more important to protect the borrower than any purchased claim by a third party. In particular, this is important as long as we're just talking about consumer relationships. There are several reasons for further protection of the borrower in relation to the rules of the Financial Contracts Act. Whatever you have to claim, it is staggering when the receivables are sold at such a low amount that the borrower himself could have had the opportunity to redeem the loan with the corresponding amount. Not least psychologically, I think most people will admit it, if you think about it. Nor is it so easy for the borrower to speculate in the training of payments as long as the starting point here is that a liability should not be repaid for less than what the creditor is willing to sell the claim to third parties. The borrower should have the right to protect himself against the resale of receivables to financial institutions other than the financial institution with which the agreement was originally concluded. The starting point is, after all, that there is an original voluntary agreement between two independent parties. In the opinion of the Right, a pre-purchase mechanism would make the sale of receivables less attractive and would force good debt restructuring arrangements with the borrower directly, as the Consumer Council also seems to think. Unfortunately, the Right must state that the majority does not wish to impose a right of pre-emption. Accordingly, the Right subsidiary is referred to in support of the proposal for consent when consumer loans are transferred to another financial institution. We have already heard in this short debate a host of anti-pre-emptive ideas. But sometimes politics has to choose, and that's probably what parties are chosen to do. And although Olof Palme isn't always my favorite, it's after all interesting to quote him that politics is too wild. So the right-hand side is the consumer's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e133	The proposals in the proposal follow up the Storting's desire to prevent the use of hard-handed debt collection methods. In the context of the examination of the Financial Contracts Act, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to come back with proposals that allow the borrower to obtain pre-emption rights when the claim is transferred. Various considerations were identified in the reasons for the proposal, including: better protection against dealing with new creditors at risk of exposure to actors using hard recovery methods. In the light of the objections raised in the consultation round, the Ministry has not advised Stortinget to adopt a provision in the Financial Contracts Act on Pre-buying Rights for the borrowers. The Finance Act basically provides borrowers with good protection against any undesirable consequences of a creditor change. However, it is a fact that neither the treatment of the Financial Contracts Act nor any proposal for a rule of consent has been considered even where a loan claim is transferred to another financial institution. I am therefore pleased that the Committee takes on board its consistency and proposes to ask the Government to consider further restrictions on access to the transfer of claims. With regard to the proposal to require authorisation for the purchase of past due claims and own funds, we in the Centre Party are very pleased that an overall committee no longer considers it acceptable that companies purchasing past due claims do not have any form of official approval or supervision. It is also very positive that an overall committee underlines that it is aware that criminal MC environments act as actors in this market and calls for a rapid legislative change to ensure that debt collection activities are subject to official supervision and control. There has been every cause for concern that the use of hard-handed collection methods seems to have increased in recent years and that it has established independent money collectors who use violence and threats as a means of making the debtors pay. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Committee expresses the view that enforcement practices involving violence, coercion and threats should mainly be countered by the use of existing criminal law legislation and be a matter for police and prosecution authorities. However, the extension of the framework for requiring debt collection will also ensure better control and prevent unprofessional recovery of claims. Finally, in the Central Party, we consider these changes in the Collection Act to be positive and necessary in order to counteract unfortunate collection and thus improve the debtor's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e156	I am pleased that the phenomenon of Buskerud Kapital & Invest AS, formerly known as Bandidos Kapital & Invest AS, is now under legal control, as far as possible with the legal instruments. The rest must be up to honest citizens and police action. But by what has now happened on the Committee's part, both in the examination of my Document No. I am pleased that a good legal solution has been found to ensure the main point, namely that activities which violate people's sense of justice, as far as possible, must be regulated and combated. I therefore started by saying that some of the images are described by the fact that the bodies that start by calling themselves Bandidos Kapital & Invest AS can change their name to Buskerud Kapital & Invest AS. There's nothing eye-catching about it. Most institutions are currently operating with names that do not correspond to what they are actually doing. It's no wonder that even people who are close to criminal environments are tempted to do the exact same thing. I am pleased with what the Committee has done on this point and also on the other important points follow the position of the Left Committee. I have a weak reservation, but it's weak. On behalf of the Left, I have the most sympathy for the comments made by the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party regarding the purchase of claims. But I see that in the situation we now have, we are best served to have the widest possible collection of the actual proposals available, so that they can be properly enforced, namely that the claims can only be traded between serious institutions, that they are involved, should know about it and have control of turnover, and that one is actually willing to go into other aspects of the legislation to prevent businessless debt victims from being the subject of gross torpedo operations, because that is what this is all about. I feel that the Committee has done so when it talks about both changes in the Debt Scheme Act, the Bankruptcy Act and the Coverage Act. Because the committee has the will and the strength to do this, I'm not going to pursue what was initially my sympathy, that is, that the person who had the demand for it could buy the claims. The reason I had that idea is that I know examples of where a claim has been converted into approx. 1.5 pst. of what it was. I also know through my political and social experiences people who are in practice in the fourteenth year of indebtedness prison, in the sense that they have fallen through most of the debt regime situations, and they are still living in a form of internal migration in Norway. I have no answer to that today, except to take it up from the Great Britain pulpit. I don't think the group is large, but I think it's bad that we have some kind of internal economic refugees in our country who actually don't get to make up for themselves and who are being chased back and forth. At least what is now happening on the collection side here is a contribution to the end of some of that situation. With these comments, the Left will close to the setting. So I hope that the police, the judiciary and the witnesses feel encouraged enough to run away from companies that are originally called Bandido's Capital & Invest AS, and that in other ways you can avoid getting into the claws of someone whose general reputation is such that people might wonder how to behave when they are being charged with money. We are all well-deserved that serious collection activities take place seriously. Steps have been taken here today to ensure that this is the case in the continuation, and that the deficiencies that were there can be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e167	I am pleased that the Judicial Committee is broadly following up the Government's proposal to follow up the Banking Law Commission's investigation into the acquisition of claims, and in particular that the Storting now appears to be willing to adopt amendments which further ensure that the collection of claims is carried out in proper form. It must be the most important thing. As regards the issue of pre-emption rights in the case of the transfer of loan claims, I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee follows the recommendation of the Government not to impose such pre-emption rights. The reason for this, of course, is not that neither the government nor all the parties in the Great Government are concerned about helping people who have come into debt problems, but because the introduction of such a right of pre-emption has more unfortunate consequences and will have effects that go far beyond what must be the objective, namely to ensure that both the collection takes place in proper forms and that people who have debt problems get help. Therefore, the most important thing we can do, in addition to what the Storing is doing today, is to strengthen the arrangements established by the Debt Scheme Act. To solve this by way of a right of pre-emption, first of all, gives a completely random look, by the fact that the possibilities that victims of debt may have to get out of the situation depend on the transfer of a creditor to one claim. Secondly, it is not only the big ones, the bad banks with claims, it is also the carpenter and the electrician who does not collect their claims, and who needs to dispose of the claim, simply to get the money. Making a right-to-purchase arrangement of the nature suggested by the minority here would create much greater problems for the kind of creditors, all of whom are interested in helping. The Government intends later this year to propose amendments to the Debt Schemes Act which could improve the position of persons with financial problems. I have noted the request made by the Judicial Committee for a detailed assessment of the introduction of requirements for the consent of the borrower also where loan claims are transferred between financial institutions. We will follow this up through the short-term preparation of a consultation note on this issue, precisely to get the basis for getting back to the Stortinget on a topic that you need and that you get through a hearing. The Government will also follow up the proposals made in the proposal to submit, at the hearing, proposals for various other measures that could improve the legal position of the debtors. A proposal for the creation of a separate complaint panel for debt collection will be examined by the Ministry in cooperation with the collection industry and consumer authorities. The Ministry has already been in contact with the debt collection industry, which has made a positive contribution to the creation of a complaint subject and which will actively contribute to the establishment of such a complaint. The Ministry will also assess whether the creation of a complaint subject should be combined with a strengthening of the sanctioned funds in the event of a breach of good debt collection policy. In addition, we will send to the hearing proposals for reducing the collection salary. It will be considered below whether the calculation of the collection fee should be linked to a standard other than the legal fee. In this extension, it should be emphasised clearly and clearly to the collection industry that recovery does not confer an unconditional right to use the maximum rates for the calculation of collection fees and that in no case may the costs exceed what is necessary. Furthermore, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, will investigate and, at the hearing, send the question of creditors to be obliged to inform the debtor of the possibility of applying for a debt regime under the Debt Scheme Act in relation to the transfer of claims, in other words, to obtain the opportunity to get help with their debt problems in the scheme we have established under the Debt Scheme Act, which provides an overall review and help related to debt problems instead of the individual solution as other proposals, such as: whether the right of pre-emption should contribute, where appropriate. I am pleased that the Committee has welcomed the proposals to improve the legal position of the debtors, and I am sure that the Grand Duchy is taking a step in the right direction today to strengthen their position.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e186	Just a few very brief comments from the SV on this matter, since we are not represented in the Justice Committee. We see that the bulk of the population is now in favour of clear improvements for victims of debt. But I also sympathise with the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, but which are not promoted as a proposal, namely a pre-buying arrangement. We will, as the representative from the Left was also in the process of waiting for the changes that are actually being made, to see if it is sufficient to improve the situation for those concerned, and then, if necessary, reserve the right to smell on such a proposal on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e207	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e216	In this proportion, several important acts of criminal policy are being taken. The first point I want to take for granted is the so-called arrest warrant, that is, the possibility of being held in custody when the usual conditions for custody are not present. The Government and the Workers' Party will facilitate the detention of violent offenders by including in this provision some crimes of violence or physical incarceration with a penalty of eight and nine years. Now this provision applies only to crimes with a lower penalty of 10 years. By doing this, a person wants, among other things. to discourage a weakening of people’s confidence in the judicial system. We do not want those who commit murder, rape, gross punishment, punishment, serious bodily damage and physical insults to be released until the sentence takes place. While facilitating the detention of serious crimes of violence, it is important to point out that the law enforcement system is initially to be used with caution. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe on detention in 1980 strongly underlines this, and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights also warrants caution. On several occasions, the Committee and the European Parliament have pointed out that the increased use of custody prisons may be one of the measures against the so-called reoccurrence crime. The Advocate General also makes it clear that he sees the need for increased use of custody over a core of highly active profit-criminals and for persons who repeat less serious acts of violence. The Advocate General and most of the hearings that have been included in the picture consider this to be possible within today’s rules of inquiry, in order to prevent repetition. If necessary, we in the Workers' Party were prepared to extend Section 171 of the Criminal Procedures Act on this point. When this is not done, it is under the clear premise that the Riksadvokat's intention to make a more active use of custody of those groups is being followed up within the applicable law. Not least through the media, we have been given some shocking examples of the suffering and harassment that violates a restraining order, for example. may apply ex-wife, ex-boyfriend and girlfriends and any children who may also be inside the picture. That is why we in the Labour Party want violent men who break a restraining order to be more easily apprehended and held in custody. In order to emphasise the seriousness of the offence, attempts are also made at the offence of a restraining order, and their involvement is punishable. I would like to stress that while a lower threshold for law enforcement and detention in the event of a recurrence risk and the last time I was involved, namely a breach of a visit ban, the aim must be to reduce the total number of days of custody. This can be achieved by speeding up criminal proceedings and transferring them to ordinary compensation. The work of getting this done is highly prioritised by the Government. I would also like to comment on the focus of the Council of Europe's torture monitoring committee on the conditions for custody prisoners who are subject to restrictions. The awareness of the prosecution authorities at this point, information to the court and the guidelines given to the prison services for the treatment of this category of prisoners show that this is now being taken seriously. In this context, the obligation to state reasons is now being imposed for confessions allowing the use of restrictions and for the requirement that the measure is not a disproportionate measure, both correct and important.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e244	Increased use of custody may be an effective tool against highly active criminals who commit gainful crimes or acts of violence of a less serious nature. I would like to stress that in the Christian People's Party we have noticed the criticisms that have come from various international agencies, such as the European Torture Monitoring Committee and the United Nations Torture Committee. However, it should be possible to find a use of the custody institution which both takes note of the criticism from the outside and at the same time makes it an effective instrument in the fight against crime. Allow me to clarify: Complaints are not a forerunner of a possible future sentence. The Christian People's Party agrees that the danger of new acts of violence is a clear criterion for the use of custody, and expects both the prosecution and the court to follow this up. The use of custody may be an important means of stopping violent people at an early stage. When we do not agree to change the law, it is based on the fact that the vast majority of hearing bodies, including the Advocate General, do not consider it necessary to amend the law in order to use custody as an active instrument against repeaters. While we want care to be used as an instrument against repeaters, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to reduce the number of days in custody. This is done by speeding up criminal proceedings. The use of restrictions must also be limited as far as possible. However, although the general conditions for the carriage of goods are not met, in some cases the use of such goods may be permitted. The condition is that there is a confession or any other circumstance which particularly reinforces the suspicion. This is described as a law enforcement offence, and it has been reviewed by the case-rapporteur. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased with the proposal to impose penalties for breaches of a restraining order. A difficult balancing issue is milder punishment by confession or explanation that has contributed significantly to the settlement of the case. The Ministry has proposed to introduce a penalty rebate, and gives its main reasons for two reasons: process economic considerations — i.e. less resource use in exploration, simpler processing, shorter processing time, etc. consideration of insults — there will be a lower burden on insults, and the credibility of insults will not be called into question if the perpetrator has authorized The intention to introduce such a discount is that you can risk getting wrong confessions, i.e. that innocent people confess because they are afraid to be convicted anyway. By confessing, they can get a milder reaction. The possibility of a reduction in the level of penalties is also a counter-argument. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about a possible development where already low penalties are even lower because of a confession with a subsequent penalty discount. Not least in areas related to violence, rape and other sexual abuse, a further reduction in the level of penalties may be provocative, both on the victim himself and on society. The Committee has therefore underlined the need to increase the level of penalties in general, and only after that can a confession and a penalty be imposed be taken into account. If criminal penalties are given in violent/criminal cases without an increase in the level of penalties, this would be contrary to the legislator’s opinion. The Christian People's Party believes that it must be a prerequisite for giving a penalty discount that the confession has had a significant impact on the clarification of the matter. So every confession is not to be weighted. When the Christian People's Party even goes in to allow a penalty discount, it's because it can be right in some cases. It could be about cases where the confession comes immediately or at an early stage, and it's about resolving both the investigated crime and maybe other crimes as well. The fact that insults can get a lower load if the perpetrator confesses is also important. However, the insult may strike both ways: it may be a relief for the perpetrator to confess, but it may also be felt as an additional provocation that the perpetrator is penalised for admitting the crime. The Christian People's Party believes that the courts should include the effects of the penalty discount on the victim in the assessment of whether or not to grant a penalty discount. We believe it is important to evaluate the experience of criminal discount after a certain period of time. An evaluation will provide us with information about the criminal discount works as intended, and will also be able to tell us about unforeseen effects. With regard to the other questions in the proposition, the Christian People's Party joins the Ministry's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e286	The size currently addresses various issues of custody, and in the opinion of the Right, this leads to positive measures regarding the targeted use of the custody institution. The right is pleased to see that the Storting now unanimously sends a signal to the Minister of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office for the increased use of detention against repeat crime. The right takes note that the Minister of Justice and the National Attorney General’s assessment suggest that there is no need for legislative change, but that the need to imprison criminal repeaters can be covered by today’s legislation. To be honest, the right has been in doubt about accepting this, but it has been crucial that police and prosecution authorities believe that they are able to take care of the intentions of more custody with the current law enforcement system. The right assumes, as a condition for its support, that these possibilities are actually used. Otherwise, the Right will present proposals for legislative changes. The right sees it as very positive that there is full agreement on the increased use of custody for criminal repeaters. This is an important tool to stop violent and repetitious people at an early stage. The right is very pleased that an old proposal to extend law enforcement to include serious crime is now being implemented. It is gratifying that Odelstinget today extends the scope of Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act on Jurisdictional Enforcement Penalty to include serious bodily injuries which have a penalty framework of less than 10 years and therefore do not fall within the current rule. The purpose of Section 172 is to counteract people’s mistrust of the judicial system by allowing persons who have committed serious crimes, such as murder, rape, serious punishment and serious drug crimes, to proceed freely to conviction. There is reason to look seriously at the development of violence here to countries in relation to both MC environments, criminal organised gangs and extreme nationalistic environments. Unfortunately, the threshold for the exercise of blame and violence has been lowered, and society has to react more clearly and in the past. It is important to show that serious actions are met with an immediate response from society. The right is satisfied with the agreement to change the criminal framework for offences against visitors in order to provide a basis for apprehension and detention, and to allow for the use of prescriptions. It is also good that attempts and participation in criminal offences against visitors are criminalised. Right-wing support for legislative change because it is an important measure for women and families who are subjected to harassment and persecution. It is obvious that the imposition of a visit ban until now has been less effective than it should have been, including. due to a lack of possibility of immediate penalties in the event of an infringement. The right supports the amendment of Section 59 of the Criminal Code in order to increase the general emphasis on the existence of acknowledgment in criminal proceedings. The condition of Right-wing support is that the level of penalties should generally be raised and that the amendment of the law should not entail a reduction in the level of penalties currently applied. In addition, the reduction needs to be assessed in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis, and particular attention must be paid to the importance of the concession to the victim. The aim is, of course, to get more confessions and thus reduce the length of proceedings and increase the effectiveness of the entire criminal procedure. The special comment of the party of progress is amazing. You don't want to introduce confession, but you want to punish those who refuse guilt. I have until now drifted into the error that the Progress Party also wants criminals to be encouraged to be honest and law-abiding and stop being criminal repeaters. Now I have not been involved in the committee's examination of the matter. Therefore, I cannot in theory rule out that I have missed out on ingenious thoughts that are not reflected in the Special Note of the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e307	The majority has asked the Government to investigate the increased use of custody against repeat offenders and to streamline the process of fresh-doing offenders. Furthermore, the Ministry has asked the National Attorney to assess whether the applicable rules and practices of detention in the event of repeated detention are considered problematic. The Advocate General has stated that police and prosecution authorities have seen the need for increased use of custody in relation to a core of highly active profit criminals. The same may apply to persons who are still committing minor acts of violence. However, the national lawyer states that there does not appear to be any particular need for legislative changes. The Ministry supports the Riksadvokat's assessment and does not seek to extend the grounds for detention due to the risk of recurrence. The Judicial Committee has given clear signals of the desire to increase the use of detention against repeat crime. We have clearly stated that the danger of new acts of violence is a clear criterion for the use of custody, and that this is an important tool for stopping violent people at an early stage. The Committee takes note of the Ministry's recommendation, but clearly signals that the Riksadvokat's intention to use care for the groups he mentions is being followed up in the current legislation. With regard to the extension of Section 172, we in the Centre Party are very pleased that an overall committee supports the proposal, given that both bodily insult with significant damage or death and damage to the body with certain serious consequences are categories of crimes where the people's confidence can be tested quickly if likely perpetrators go free pending legal proceedings. We are also pleased that care after the amendment can be used in several cases of gross acts of violence where the perpetrator is known. This mechanism shall be used to keep violent perpetrators away from the street pending legal proceedings or redress, and the Committee stresses that this is important in order to maintain general respect for the legal order. On several occasions, the Judicial Committee has stated that criminal prosecution for various types of crime should generally be stepped up, including: in the case of violence against children, sexual crimes and serious violence, and in the case of repeated profitability. The central party agrees with the majority that a number of considerations suggest that the confession should be given greater weight in criminal proceedings than is the case today. Both process economic considerations and the consideration of insults are important. The prosecution authority believes that suspects now admit less rarely than before and that in practice, in so-called ‘working-day cases’, there is little or no penalty discount for confessions. Finally, I would like to express satisfaction with the changes that have been made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e330	The Left agrees with the Committee's position on all the essential points and is in the majority of the Committee, where there is disagreement, on the point of the penalty rebate. I think it is particularly important that we now have the opportunity to use custody, so that people who commit violence, violent crimes and other serious crimes that violate people's legal personality can be taken into custody instead of going free. The Committee has expressed itself strongly and clearly on this point, and it is little to add to saying that we are all hoping and assuming that everyone with the practical day-to-day responsibilities of the police and judicial authorities is so well organised that they actually notice these people, so that they may not need new tragic events to register them. I therefore believe that what has been said here by the Storting Group and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will have an impact, it also requires administrative management and pressure on it so that it is followed up. The Committee has also touched on some of the points raised by the European Commission on Human Rights, and I have nothing to add to what it says, except that I assume that the points raised earlier by the Commission, where criticisms have been raised against the Norwegian authorities, are followed up and dealt with in an appropriate form to the Stortinget. I have recorded that the Council of State has highlighted clear views on doing so, among others. in respect of the length of care in addition to what is mentioned here, so that I take this into account. First of all, I would like to link my comments to the last two points. One concerns the ban on visits. It is very positive that today’s treatment introduces the possibility of being able to place someone in custody if they break the visit ban. However, I believe that the most important challenge – once again – is not the positive thing that is happening today, but that police and courts are actually taking advantage of the opportunities they have. My meeting with people who have been subjected to the kind of terror described here and who form the basis for a restraining order – something that I, among other things, am doing. have learned through meetings with crisis centres – is that we often hear that they are not met with the seriousness of their encounters, either with the police or with the judicial authorities. So where there is actually a situation already based on today's legislation, you don't react seriously enough. So there is another reason to stress that, in addition to good criminal regulations with important intentions, those who are going to enforce this have to deal with it with good competence and with sufficient seriousness. I think it is absolutely crucial in relation to what is related to the underlying reasons that we have provisions on a restraining order, and that makes it necessary to tighten this up today. As far as the penalty rebate is concerned, which is the last point, I note that the Progress Party is against it. That is logical enough, because the party is generally a member of the American baseball technique with three fast and away me'n, or of using the multiplication table, not to mention exponential calculation, to ensure that the penalty measurement is done. So from that point of view, this is a very consistent position. The rest of us who then stand on what has now come into this position – and here the Left, together with the majority of the Committee – are willing to do so in order to clarify crimes. However, this is an important reservation, and it has been very strongly emphasised by the Committee: we cannot do so in any of the areas mentioned, without starting from a more practically increased level of criminal evaluation. We can't be at today's level with regard to some of the crimes mentioned here; the committee has stressed it very strongly. Now it's the way big committees talk, but we're going to hope that these opinions are also included in the courts and persecuted in other ways. For the penalty rebate should be used on the basis of some of the levels of penalties we have today, the penalty rebate will simply work against its purpose. I feel that the department has clearly marked it, and I feel that the committee has marked it. I feel the need to just underline it, so it will come out strongly enough. I have a concern about this matter – and it has to be expressed very briefly. I have a concern that our legal system today is moving away from the fact that the situation for everyone involved in the trial is that we should clarify the matter. Of course, it's often the case that you have to fight for someone to go free. But I'm worried that sometimes it goes very far in getting someone to go free, without us being sure it's the right thing to do. We are dealing with very difficult ethical issues here, and I just want to encourage the Minister of Justice to address these issues in an appropriate way in the meetings she probably has regularly with the Norwegian Lawyers' Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e345	To start there as Odd Einar Dørum left, with this about the discount for confessions: With the leaders placed both from the department and from the committee, I think this could be quite important attempts for precisely – as Dørum was about – to get legal cases to focus on getting the facts on the table, so that it is possible to take on blame, and that the victims may also see that someone is guilty of what has happened to them. I believe that in too many cases serious acts of violence, rapes, etc., are being accused of shutting down, or advice from their lawyers to shut up, and that it pays off. That means that he himself, who may have been in a situation, and in a sense that something has been done wrong and would like to settle himself, is not encouraged to do so. And as we know, the most important thing for a victim in those kinds of cases is that someone takes on blame for what's actually happened, and that you don't even get to walk around with guilt because you've tricked or tricked someone out. It's about kids exposed to incest, it's about victims of rape -- it's about a lot of those cases. That is the background for the opening now provided by the Committee and the Ministry. I have met many people both in the police and in the judiciary who have been concerned that it must be possible to admit that they have made a mistake, to say that they want to settle themselves, and then to move on in life. I hope that this change can contribute in such a direction. Steps should be taken to extend the possibility of custody – extensive use of custody is one of the areas where Norway is most criticised for human rights issues – is a terribly difficult issue. There are difficult balances that lie behind the change that the Ministry and the Committee are now making in terms of the possibility of law enforcement arrests. When SV supports the expansion that is taking place, it is because we believe that the types of regulations that now come under this legal framework are not in any way a release. There are examples of serious violent crimes in which there has been no possibility of being held in prison for this reason, which has been obvious as a serious violation of the general concept of justice in most people. For us, it is very important that this is seen in the context of the work that is otherwise done to shorten the processing times and bring matters up to judgment quickly. We now know that with regard to bringing a criminal violent person into a new path, it is not the length of punishment that helps. Prison without treatment or prison without other types of offer does not help. It helps us, because a dangerous violent person is kept away from the streets, but it doesn't help to get him on the right track. What we know helps, which can prevent, and which are important signals to others in the environments of much violence, is a quick response. Therefore, it is extremely important that the work done in this field be carried out. As a result, the fundamental concerns about extending the possibility of custody prisons are reduced. But it also means that the effective part of preventing violent crime — and, to some extent, other types of crime — is given priority. We'll never forget that 80 pst. of those in Norwegian prisons have previously been sitting there. That means, of course, that we have to have prisons to some extent, but we have to do much more work to give people the opportunity to get out of that type of runway. As regards the violation of a restraining order, I fully agree with Odd Einar Dørum that this is a field that the police and the judiciary must take much more seriously. Some women and children are exposed to extreme terrorism. We live in a small, transparent society, and that means it's terribly hard to hide away and get away from that kind of attacker. This would mean that we need to be even more vigilant in Norway than elsewhere in order to protect these women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e362	Several of the changes proposed by the Government in the proposal currently under consideration by the Stortinget relate to measures designed to contribute to an increased sense of security among individuals. This concerns both the proposal to use so-called ‘law enforcement’ sentences in more cases than at present, and the proposal to adjust the criminal framework in the event of a breach of a visitation ban. Where there is a confession or strong evidence that a person has committed serious acts of violence, there should be greater access to custody, even if there is insufficient recurrence or risk of evidence of abstinence. Enlargement will not matter in very many cases, but it does not mean it is irrelevant. The fact that custody can be used in such cases will be important to the general sense of security. For the victim in the specific case, it will be of great importance that sight is not released after a short period of time. Moreover, extensive media coverage of cases can in itself give rise to anxiety in many, including those other than the victim himself. I have a great deal of understanding that there are strong reactions that a person who is accused of gross violence, and who may even have admitted, is released until the criminal proceedings are brought before the courts. With regard to the comments made by the representative Halvorsen on the criticism addressed to Norway regarding care, I would like to stress that Norway has been criticised for not the general scope of the use of care. What we have been criticized for is the issue of isolation, the use of police arrests for too long and too long detention. All three of these matters are of concern to us, and I can then confirm to the representative Dørum that the work on those points is in progress. There is a consultation note out there, and I intend to present concrete legislative proposals to the Stortinge during the spring session. Another measure that could contribute to an increased level of safety is the proposed effectiveness of the visit ban. Prohibition of visits is an important scheme. The police may prohibit one person from seeking or contacting another for a certain period of time. The prohibition is automatically reviewed by the court. The justification is a risk of criminal offences, persecution or violation of privacy. The person to be protected should then be able to feel reasonably confident that the prohibition is being complied with. It's not always like that today. Therefore, there is a clear need to be able to use arrest and custody where the other conditions exist, such as: reoccurrence risk, which is likely to be seen in quite many cases in the event of a breach of a visit ban. Today, the offender of a restraining order must have been convicted of such an infringement in the past in order to have a high level of penalties for arrest and imprisonment. This, of course, takes time, especially when there has been no access to fines, which, unlike prison sentences, can be imposed at the time of detention. I am therefore absolutely convinced that the proposal which a unanimous enlargement is now likely to adopt is quite correct and absolutely necessary. However, I would like to stress that the biggest and most important criminal policy challenge we are facing is to speed up and streamline criminal proceedings. There is also an important response to the reduction of long maintenance times. In my view, effective criminal justice is very important for combating crime and for the individual’s sense of security. Two working groups have identified the bottlenecks in the criminal chain and put forward concrete proposals to the department. A large part of these proposals are currently being consulted. In the proposition that the Stortinge treats today, it is only the proposal that more emphasis be placed on confessions from the working groups in criminal investigations. And I would like to add that this proposal, to put greater emphasis on confessions, is not just a matter of speeding up criminal proceedings, but not least a question of just getting cases settled and a question of the concern of the victims. I can without a doubt join in the comments made by the Committee, but I would like to stress that there is a broad consensus on increasing the level of penalties in a good number of cases, in particular related to violence and sexual assault. What's the question here is whether or not to make a difference in what you call a general level of punishment depending on whether or not you've admitted. And I'm convinced that's the right thing to do. Not least the trend we see – as both the representative of Halvorsen and the representative of Dørum pointed out – that one does not want to explain, making it all the more important than before. I hear too many examples where the police can tell me that suspects have been about to confess – then there are 5 minutes of defenders, and then there is a bomb stop. You don't say anything, because it's counsel from the defense. Then it's important that those who confess are willing to settle themselves, explain what has happened and help society, themselves and the victim to get the matter over and out of the world. They shall have a profit when the other elements are at their disposal. So I think this is the right proposal, and I'm glad that the majority of the Storing agrees with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e379	For the sake of order, the President wants to draw attention to the fact that it is Odelstinget, not Stortinget, who is dealing with today's legal issues. This applies not only to articles of the Council of State but also to previous articles. So here you have to tighten up: it's Odelstingen that's meeting now. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 281]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e398	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e405	This proposition contains two elements: a statutory right to compensation and also a part where all the balls are taken down with measures for victims of violence such as mass destruction and government have been thrown over the last few years, and ‘lines’ them up in a fine overview. And it looks pretty neat when we see these measures combined like this. It didn't look so pretty seven years ago, which was the first time initiative was taken, from the Labour Party government, to focus on the victims of violence and crime and to review the rules and measures in relation to this. The historical development until then had been such that from the fact that the victim in the right old days was an active party in the process after the upheaval, the victim had become a more passive observer and put on the sideline. This also led to the fact that the victim’s needs and the legal certainty of the victim were not adequately met. This proposition proves that what we did at the time seven years ago was the beginning of a completely different attitude and a completely different focus on the victim. The fact that there is a unanimous committee behind the adjustment also confirms that. We didn't agree that last time, seven years ago. Now it is only the Progress Party that breaks out on a couple of points – but that they drive and break out into that party is well known. Today's legalization of the right to compensation is natural in this new picture. If you are injured after an act of violence, you should have the right to recover your financial loss, you should have compensation and you should have compensation. This should have been ensured by the perpetrator contributing to the compensation and through the ordinary social security systems. But now we see that that's not good enough. It's not always that gives full compensation, and that's why we need to have an extra arrangement for the victims of violence. As legislators, we recognize that we have a special responsibility for the victims of violence. Attacking on one's own life and health is a violation of the most fundamental justice system. The rules we have had on compensation for victims of violence have mainly worked well. Therefore, these are continued with some adjustments. That's the principle that's important here, that it now becomes a legal right to compensation. I just want to stress that of course this does not mean that it becomes more difficult to get compensation, in some cases it might be the opposite. It's now also going to be a real substitute. By increasing the maximum amount from NOK 200000 to G 20, we will get real men's compensation measurements and not spending a lower amount than what is normal in the ordinary right to compensation. In addition, the Committee is committed to increasing the amounts of uplifts. It has asked the courts in previous positions to do so without any specific change. Now we want to get ahead of ourselves by putting the victims' compensation on a higher level, and then we'll see if the courts don't come after them. With this law, we go beyond what the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violence does, because we also include compensation for negligent acts of violence. We also go further than our neighboring country, because you can get compensation even when the perpetrator is not convicted, i.e. if he is acquitted, the case is dismissed or the perpetrator is unknown. But then there has to be a clear probability balance for the act of violence to take place, as required by the courts. The Committee on Legal Affairs understands that it will not be contrary to the presumption of innocence in European human rights, because it is not a criminal conviction, but we simply state that there has been a violent act here that gives the right to compensation. There has been a somewhat variable practice among the counties on how to practice this clear probability overweight. I just want to stress that it should not be more difficult to get compensation under this scheme than it is to get compensation in the courts when the same claim is taken into account. At one point, the Committee has been somewhat in doubt, and there is a need for damages to be part of the rules of the Administrative Act. We're now changing that by saying that he's no longer going to be a party. This means that damages will no longer be given the right and the opportunity to speak in the case. This may be a disadvantage in relation to the result. But at the same time, it can be a burden on the victim, and it can also be negative in relation to the presumption of innocence in international law. That's why we've come to believe he shouldn't be a party. So to all the balls that are thrown up: the Storting asked last year for a review of them, just to get a complete overview. And when it comes to law changes, there's a lot that's been done. But what we see is a inertia, especially in the court system, to capture the new opportunities that the legislators give them, and a inertia in relation to the same change of attitude to put the victim of violence in the focus of such cases. In the case of sexualised violence, we adopted a number of changes last year in order to strengthen the protection of children and women from abuse. The Judicial Committee has stressed many times, most recently in the previous case, that the level of penalties is too low and that the criminal framework needs to be used more in such cases. And we're going to do that this time as well. Much has also been done to protect offended people and to protect witnesses. Since the last merger proposition, we have expanded the possibilities of deporting sighted persons and others from the court for insulting purposes. It turns out this isn't much used, and it might be judged rarely by the court. We are now also proposing changes to anonymous witnesses, and the Committee is asking for rapid action to be taken. The visit ban was much discussed in the previous case. I just want to add that it seems that there are some police districts that simply forget to use the opportunity that lies there. The receptions for the raped and the receptions for children who have been through terrible experiences are quite different today in the vast majority of police districts than they were a few years ago. To be referred to an examination quickly, to get proper information about the auxiliaries, to be referred to the auxiliaries is something quite different today than it was a few years ago. The police have a special competence in the area that a few years ago had. What was a stranger before, has become the rule now, and it's good to see. The questioning of children is also on a completely different track, with much greater input from competent people conducting the hearings. That's good, and it has to apply across the country. As far as the investigation of morals is concerned, the studies that have been carried out and their follow-up are very good. The Judicial Committee asks that consideration be also given to the need to build regional competence units to assist in morality and child care, as it appears that Kripos does not have capacity. Some police districts are in front of others at some points, for example: Bergen and Oslo have made action plans against family violence. It's really a follow-up for other police districts. For a woman, it is statistically more dangerous to stay at home than it is to walk in a dark street at night. This is why it is time for a much greater emphasis to be placed on women’s perspective on combating violence, both in the police districts and in the Centre for the Competence of Victims of Violence, which was established after the last major round of victims of violence. We must also continue to work with women from other cultures. There has been a lot of attention lately, including in the media, in relation to forced marriage and in relation to sexual mutilation. We know that there are no easy answers, but we need to engage in dialogue and look at both the law and the attitudes. It's good that the work here is going on so well. With regard to international work, the Judicial Committee asks for the international protection of the rights of victims of violence and for it to be done in the manner that is appropriate and possible. When there's so many balls in the air in this area, it's also very good that you have a condom that can keep track of them through a female violence selection. And finally, the victims' fund was something we asked for a few years ago when the picture looked completely different. It would provide direct financial support for victims of violence, and it would provide support for action. But this proposition shows that the reason for the violent victim fund is actually over-filled with what is there today. When we see today in addition that the contributions of violent men will not even cover the administrative expenses of the fund, then a good idea has just become a symbolic flop that creates bureaucratic work, and it is only the Progress Party in the Committee that is in favour of this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e458	Not so rarely, it is said from various teams that laws and regulations aim more at protecting and helping the rapist than at safeguarding the rights of the innocent victim of the violence. By means of the Victim Compensation Act we adopt in Odelstinget today, we strengthen the victim's position through concrete measures. An important point in this context is that the State compensation scheme is converted from the cheap scheme to the right regime. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, attacks on people are the most serious category of crimes. Violent acts of various kinds stand in a special position, and they mean that the most important legal assets we have are seriously violated. Own life and health are inviolable areas to be protected and respected. That's why it's so important for the Christian People's Party to stress the anchoring of values. To a great extent, we record that respect for each person's self-esteem and freedom is becoming less and less. Human beings are considered as purposes for the needs of others, or we are ‘put together’ as a consumer product. It is therefore important to point out that man is holy and inviolable according to his purpose. In addition to the responsibility of individuals for their next, it is a social task to prevent the exercise of violent crime. But it is also important to place responsibility where it belongs, when violence has been committed. The individual perpetrator must be prepared and punished for committing an evil and criminal offence. And as far as possible, the innocent victim must receive the compensation and upliftment that restores the quality of life to the victim. This is also the rapist's responsibility, which he must not in any way escape easily. However, we also know that many perpetrators do not have the means to pay compensation, or they are unknown. In such cases, it is clearly a State task to ensure that the victim does not become the losing party. Through social security benefits and compensation for violence, the State must ensure that the injured person is restored to a reasonably good quality of life. It's in this context that we stress that compensation is a right for the victim. An important question is which criteria must be met in order to be entitled to compensation. Where shall the limit be drawn between those who receive compensation and those who fall outside? The Christian People’s Party agrees with the other parties in the Committee that there should still be a main criterion for obtaining compensation for the victims of violence that he has been subjected to ‘wild or punishable acts of violence or coercion’. But even negligent criminal acts of violence with personal injury provide a basis for compensation. In addition, this scheme includes prosperity and acts with minors. The Christian People's Party is aware of the problem of compensation provided where no one is convicted of the act of violence. Does this conflict with the presumption of innocence in the European Convention on Human Rights? Are we in contrast to the United Nations Convention on Political and Social Rights in cases where the perpetrator is known, but free of charge, or that the case against him is closed? We believe that we are on the safe side, as a decision on compensation for victims of violence does not imply a criminal conviction, but merely an assessment of whether an applicant is entitled to compensation from the State after a violent act. However, the question of compensation in criminal cases where damages have been found unsolved or the case is disputed. If the investigation carried out results in substantive changes with consequences for the claim, the practice of the claim for evidence in compensation for victims of violence must be assessed in the light of this. The Christian People's Party also supports that we continue to have the same claim to the likelihood of obtaining compensation for the victims of violence as in assessing whether a criminal offence has taken place, namely a clear probability balance. We support the proposal that the maximum amount of compensation be increased from today's level to 20 G. In principle, however, all victims who fulfil the conditions should be fully covered for their losses. Therefore, it is important to note whether the roof has any concrete influence resulting in reduced coverage. In that case, we should consider removing the maximum amount of compensation. We also support for permanent but, as a result of the violence, that the injured party is entitled to full compensation. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e484	Five years ago, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to investigate the establishment and financing of a violent victim fund with a view to proposing such a scheme. So after five years, there is a proposal on the government table that such a system should not be established. It has obviously been difficult to set limits on who is going to pay into the fund. If you limit the payment to those who have committed violence, there will be too little money in it, and if you say everyone has to pay – including in the context of simplified circumstances, for example traffic offences – it will be unreasonable. In my opinion, it is strange that a department with so many employees, over so many years and with so much time to think, has not managed to find some sort of more natural delimitation. For example, a solution could have been to say that anyone who is sentenced to imprisonment, conditional or unconditional, will pay in to the fund. It was the way of thinking when this proposal came up for the first time – not that only people committed violence, who had to pay, but criminals in general. And if you have committed such a serious criminal act – no matter what you have done – that you are actually sentenced to imprisonment, either conditionally or unconditionally, then it would not be unreasonable – and it would be educationally correct – that you get a little extra penalty in the form of a thousand bill or something like that, which goes to help people who have been subjected to crime, even if it is not the same type of crime that they have committed themselves. So there are and have been opportunities to implement the Biggest Decision. I regret that this was not done, and the Progress Party has a proposal that the decision of February 1996 should be followed up. I am addressing this proposal. In doubt, the Progress Party has accepted the concept of ‘clear probability balance’ in order to provide support for victims of violence. I am pleased with the clarifications given by the rapporteur, because it has actually proved difficult in practice to get compensation when it has been an unknown perpetrator. And I've shown earlier in articles in the main hall to hairdressing decisions made by the Victim Compensation Committee, where people have been denied compensation in such cases. Our starting point must be that in most cases where a person is severely injured and even claims to have been subjected to violence, that would have been the case. If it is the starting point for those to make the decision, it is acceptable with a concept of ‘clear probability overweight’. But if the starting point is that anyone who comes with a damage to a hospital and claims that there has been violence against them, are cellar rings trying to trick the state for money, of course this term becomes very unfortunate. So my starting point to support the expression ‘clear probability balance’ is that the starting point for those who are going to make the decisions is positive. Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Left, has put forward a proposal to evaluate the system of compensation for victims of violence after four years in order to ensure the best possible basis for the compensation scheme to provide justice to victims of violence. It is a good and sensible proposal for which the Progress Party will vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e497	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e500	It is positive that the system of compensation for victims is now being made clearer and better and that it is being legislated. It will contribute to further strengthening the position of the victim of violence. Furthermore, it is positive that the liability of the State for compensation for victims of violence should be subsidiary to the liability of the perpetrators and other ordinary compensation and social security schemes. Furthermore, Right supports the imposition of recourse requirements where there is a basis for doing so. Furthermore, it is advanced that the scheme is now moving from being a reasonable mechanism to becoming a statutory right. The person who has suffered a personal injury following a criminal act of violence receives a claim for compensation from the State. It will strengthen the victim’s position and also give a signal of the importance of the legislator’s view that the victim of the violence should be as harmless as possible after the act of violence. The right will also underline what is stated in the preamble that a statutory right must not result in the conditions for obtaining compensation being interpreted more stringently than in the past, so that access to compensation is reduced. By way of legislation, it is intended to continue today's practice, but as a right. The right considers, like the other committee, that the level of compensation for victims of violence should follow the level of ordinary compensation and follow general principles of compensation law for measurement. Furthermore, in this context, it is positive that the ceiling is increased from SEK 200000 to 20 G. This way, the vast majority of people can get compensation that fully covers the loss. On the other hand, the very reason for the upper roof in our opinion is a little more doubtful. I fully understand that there is a desire for predictability of the state's expenditure and, to this extent, for simplified procedures in the major cases. But the principle of full compensation is, after all, more important. What has been a problem in respect of claims in Norway, not only in this context, but also more generally, is that they have been exceptionally low. And while in this Chamber we have a number of senses of the cheapness system, normal compensation schemes should be proportionate to the losses and damage suffered. And without us wanting to get into American terms about the amount of compensation, you should nevertheless look at the amount of compensation in relation to what is real compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e513	The biggest bathroom in connection with the treatment of Document No. 8:22 for 1999-2000 The Government undertakes an overall review of measures to strengthen the situation of victims of violence and proposes concrete measures. The Ministry shall pay tribute to the proposals made in Ot.prp. No 4th@item: In our society of law, the main cause of harm is the perpetrator. Nevertheless, victims of violent crimes have been in a special position since the code on compensation for victims was adopted in 1976. However, the Committee supports the proposal that the system be made clearer and improved and that it should be legislated. It will contribute to further strengthening the position of victims of violence. People who have been subjected to violence are in a position different from that of other victims. Getting attacked on their own lives and their own health is a violation of the most fundamental rights we have. That is why it is an important social task to prevent violent crime. In addition, it should be a social responsibility to ensure that the victim receives as much upliftment as possible and does not suffer financial losses as a result of the violence. Ideally, such compensation and upliftment should be ensured through compensation from the perpetrator and the ordinary social security benefits we have. However, it appears that this is not sufficient. Firstly, social security does not cover all expenditure. Secondly, it is often difficult to get compensation from harm. It could be because he has little money, or because he's unknown. It is then right to have a system in which the State ensures that the injured party receives reasonable compensation. The Committee has agreed that the liability of the State for compensation for the victim of the violence should be subsidiary to the liability of the perpetrator and other ordinary compensation and social security schemes. In the Central Party, we are pleased that an overall committee supports the fact that the scheme goes from being a replacement to becoming a legal right when there is reasonable. The person who has suffered a personal injury following a criminal act of violence receives a claim for compensation from the State. This will strengthen the position of victims of violence, and will also signal the importance of the legislator’s view that victims of violence should be released without harm as far as possible after the act of violence. In the Centre Party, we are pleased that the Committee decides that the level of compensation for victims of violence should follow the level of ordinary compensation, and that it should follow general principles of compensation law for measurement. It is also very positive that the ceiling is increased from SEK 200000 to 20 G. This way, even the vast majority of those who have suffered extensive damage can have their losses fully covered. It is also positive that a unanimous committee says that, as regards the recovery of costs, victims of violence should not be prevented from obtaining their legal claims because they do not have the financial means to obtain the necessary legal assistance. Int. S. No 113 for 1999-2000 asked the Justice Committee to consider ‘if it is appropriate to work for a supplement to the European Convention on Human Rights which strengthens the protection of victims of violence’. The Ministry has assessed this in the proposal and expresses doubts as to whether a work should be undertaken by the Norwegian authorities to achieve this. Nor has the Ministry proposed other approaches to the European Convention on Human Rights, which strengthens the protection of victims of violence. This is a far too tame and defensive attitude. It is therefore very gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are now expressing the need for victims of violence to receive as practical and enforceable human rights protection as the perpetrator currently enjoys. It is also positive that the Committee says that protection against abuse must be formulated as a positive obligation for States. It would have a preventative effect on violence and abuse if Norway had an impact on such an overall political priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e546	On behalf of the Left I am very pleased with the width and the weight that is in the setting. It is clearly anchored as the Committee has expressed it, but it is also quite clear in the extension of it as, among other things, it does. I myself in a role in a former government was actively involved. The pressure in this setting is very positive. For my part, I will link comments to just a few of the points: Of course, with regard to the compensation system, it is very positive that it is legalised and that there are clear rules for this. However, I find reason to promote a proposal, which is distributed and which I will refer to. I guess it will be properly dealt with later in Stortinget. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the system of compensation for victims of violence after four years in order to ensure the best possible basis for the compensation scheme to provide victims of violence.’ I am promoting it because in general for a number of years I have thought – and I was not really disappointed in it in a role that I had some time back – that we in Norway are looking too late to examine the effect of the laws that we agree to adopt. The size has now decided in some important contexts that we should evaluate. The size has done so in connection with the provision on exceptional investigation methods, the Stortinget has done so in connection with the so-called Tut and the driving rule relating to the Schengen provisions of the Police Act, the Stortinget has also done so, as far as I remember, in connection with the provision on anonymous witnesses, a matter which the current government has promoted, and the Stortinget has also done so in connection with the law on the temporary possibility of carrying out investigations after weapons. I am convinced that it is very important to see how the victims in practice are taken care of, because I believe that the better we become to ensure the victims of justice as victims, the more we escape the race that none of us to the seventh and last wishes, that we get an ever tougher and tougher demand to tighten the level of punishment. I think that the only way to avoid it is that the victims show the attention that I feel is broadly expressed not only in the submission from the ministry, but also in this setting from the committee. The fact that we're evaluating is one way to tell people out there that we're doing our best, but that we're ready to learn if we see that there's something we're going to sharpen on. The second relationship that I want to comment on is what has been said about the benefits of popular fear. Of course, it is right that there are a number of conditions that are not covered by popular fear and that must be covered by compensation. But there's one issue that's crucial, and that's that before you get to a replacement situation, a victim of violence may have been exposed to such a complex reality after being subjected to violence, that you have to do something special. And I see that it's a willingness to do when you look at the issue of special rules for vocational rehabilitation. I think that's right. But I would ask the Council of State to consider another matter that I do not think is well-lit, either in the setting or in the submitted to the Stortinget, and it is when a victim of violence has been diagnosed with such a complex medical condition that he actually falls between different chairs, according to his medical situation. I allow myself to draw a parallel. We know that women who suffer from the disease that is called fibromyalgia, for many years at a time to be accepted by the health care system, until a wise doctor found out that this was something exact. Then you suddenly got space in the system. Many who have been subjected to violence often struggle with such complex effects that they do not get the medical assistance they need at the right time. This is a different matter from that which has been favourably addressed here and which is linked to the question of professional reintroduction and special rules for this. Then, of course, I will touch on the point of a fund. I agree without a doubt that we cannot have a fund in the form rejected by a broad majority of the committee, namely a fund which requires us to charge an absolute fee to everyone who meets in Norwegian courts. It would be an infringement of general legal certainty. I find out that the committee has now found out that if you do it very rigorously and inconveniently, you end up with a small amount of money. For my part, on behalf of the Left, I would like to reserve the right to return to a fund that will be small, which will be linked to violent crime, and which, if it is small, but slightly larger than what has been discussed in the Committee, can be used to secure voluntary organisations supporting victims of violence and related research. I do not now have any grounds to pursue it, but reserve the right to come back to it. With regard to the other issues raised here, I would just like to stress the importance of making progress in the work that is being done with regard to having a violent alarm that can also be taken away from home, and working with what the Council of State has previously responded positively to, namely that one should get the results of a working group per person. On 31 March, which has dealt with the question of the possibility of changing a personal number, which I regard as very important both for the victim of the violence and many others who are exposed to threats and harassment in the judiciary. I have taken up the proposal, but in the end I do it for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e575	Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e578	People who have been subjected to violence are, in my view, in a special position in relation to most other victims. The crimes of violence represent a direct threat to the lives and health of people and involve a violation of the most fundamental justices in our society. Combating violent crime must therefore be a central task for political authorities. Where, on a case-by-case basis, society does not succeed in preventing such actions, the community should cover the loss caused by personal injury, where coverage for the loss cannot be otherwise achieved. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in its position, agrees that the system of compensation for the victims of violence is continuing and that it is now being clarified and improved by means of a legislative instrument. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that the system is transformed from a system of proportionality into a legal right mechanism closely linked to the general rules of Chapter 3 of the Law on Compensation for Damage. This will include, inter alia: means that full compensation shall be provided under the system of compensation for victims of violence and not 1/3 of that resulting from the rules of the Code of Compensation for Damage, as is currently the practice. The Government has proposed to increase the maximum amount under the victim compensation scheme from NOK 200000 to SEK 1 million. kr per. damage case. Instead, the Judicial Committee has proposed that the ceiling be set at 20 times the basic amount of the population’s rights. That makes sense, and I take note of the committee's proposals. According to current practice, the requirement of proof is a clear likelihood of the applicant being exposed to violence. This is the same requirement as the courts make when deciding on compensation from the perpetrator to the injured party in such cases, and where the compensation for the victims of violence comes in instead of in the event that the perpetrator is unable to pay. In this context, reference is also made to NOU 2000:33, Compensation to the victims where the defendant is acquitted of punishment. The government has proposed that this requirement of proof, i.e. clear probability balance, be included in the law, and the committee has agreed to it. However, the Committee emphasises that in the event of changes due to the recent NOU, the practice of the requirement of proof in the case of victims of violence must be assessed in the light of this. I share the Committee's views and will help to ensure that this coherence is not lost in sight. In addition, I would like to stress that I think there is another element that is important precisely in order to meet the requirement of clear probability overweight in those cases where a violence has taken place. It is that we have to be good at providing information and advice to victims of violence, because I do not overlook that when in some of those cases later questions about something has happened or not, it is because the documentation has not been taken care of at the moment the victim encounters, for example. medical or other. The victim of violence can only become aware of the possibility of seeking compensation for victims of violence for a long time, so that at that time they no longer have the same documentation as they could have had if we had been better at providing information and advice on the victim immediately after the act of violence had taken place. I have noticed that the Committee emphasises the need to ensure that victims of violence are provided with sufficient free legal assistance to safeguard their interests, including in the case of applications for compensation for victims of violence. It is natural for the Ministry to follow this up in the follow-up to the paper on free legal aid. In addition, I would like to review the existing guidelines before any new rules are in place. The proposal mentions a number of measures of more recent dates for victims of violence. This applies, for example: changes in the penal code that strengthens women and the protection of children from sexual abuse, new rules on detention in the event of a breach of a restraining order, etc. I have noticed that the committee is asking for changes to protect witnesses to be implemented as soon as possible. I fully agree with the committee that it is desirable, and I will do my part to get them to work as soon as possible. I would add that, in addition to finding new measures, coordination, follow-up and, above all, information on the measures already in place is particularly important. I am also pleased that the committee is so positive about the ministry's trial project with mediation in violence. I believe that the project of mediation in violence is an important step in a slightly different direction from what we have normally talked about in the case of victims of violence, and that the project can help to facilitate the situation of the victim of violence and facilitate that the victim of violence can put more difficult experiences behind him. I'm basically of the opinion that it's going to be a little bit more before you expand a trial project before the trial period is over. However, if we see clear positive results from the trials early, I will consider whether the project should be extended. The last thing I want to touch is the measures against family violence. I fully agree with the Committee's call for the Police Directorate to follow up the projects that have been launched and to stimulate similar projects in several police districts. But I'm adding that the focus on family violence should be important in all municipalities and in all police districts. Finally, I would like to mention this with vocational retraining. During the spring, the government will make a more detailed assessment of what is most appropriate: to provide, in particular, calculation rules for victims of violence, to compensate for the expenditure under the victim compensation scheme, or to incorporate it into the general support schemes available for vocational rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e602	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e610	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e770	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e779	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e789	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e816	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e944	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e953	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e959	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 2, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 6 February 1996 to submit proposals for a violent victim fund.’ The proposal from the Left reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the system of compensation for victims of violence after four years in order to ensure the best possible basis for the compensation scheme to provide victims of violence.’ Both proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e1180	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-02-09-lower.ana.ud557e1189	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
