ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e27	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Borghild Tenden, has taken the seat. From 17 January to 19 January, the Workers' Party Group shall apply for a permit from the representative of Aud Blattmann to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in London. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Rolf Terje Klungland, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e50	Rolf Terje Klungland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e55	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e60	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e65	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e68	The representative of Tor Nymo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e71	On behalf of Odd Roger Enoxen, Morten Lund and myself, I will present proposals for a temporary ban on the importation of live bovine animals and meat products of bovine animals from countries that have detected the presence of cow disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e77	The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e80	On behalf of Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I will present proposals for the establishment of a comprehensive surveillance of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e106	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the Councils of State Otto Gregussen and Anne Kristin Sydnes will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e115	My question goes to the Prime Minister. In the late hours of the night in a budgetary procedure, it may be very strange, and this year a business cycle tax was adopted, which the parties ran from the moment they had the chance to do so. Now the Government and the settlement partners have undertaken a significantly more ambitious project for the same year to the next, namely a whole tax reform. There's a reform that's supposed to be presented in the state budget, and so you have to avoid the whole process over a few weeks, which, of course, makes it very difficult for everyone concerned to have any idea of what this is about before the decision is taken after conversations in enclosed spaces. Tax Professor Ole Gäms-Unstad describes this as a completely irresponsible treatment. I agree with him. What does the Prime Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e126	We will present proposals and guidelines in the State budget, or at the latest in the State budget, as stated in the agreement concluded with the inter-parties, and we believe that this provides a basis for an absolutely sound treatment. What was required was that we put something forward in ours. We thought that was unsustainable, and we are pleased that we have got the time to the budget to present the changes we think are necessary. It is not a question of revising the whole tax reform of 1992, but it is a question of making changes specifically in relation to the taxes on production and capital, corporate taxation. There have been changes over many years that have undermined and weakened the reform we have, and therefore a clean-up was necessary. We presented some guidelines on this in the national budget and have also agreed with the centre parties on guidelines for further work. The aim is to get a better tax system, where we get more justice and also more equal treatment for different types of capital and businesses. So I'm absolutely sure that we're going to have a better system of the proposal we're making for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e135	Does the Prime Minister not see that we have a democratic problem if the Government intends to wait until the fall, as a number of different issues will be dealt with in parallel, where all those involved will have problems in being able to properly influence the decision-making process? There is, of course, no prior open debate or open investigation on the basis of which it is based. Is it not then the Prime Minister's concern that we should get the same thing as the cyclical tax, that a new tax system is adopted here – which thus takes a short time – then all the adverse effects show up, and then the parties start running from it again? Would it not simply be wise if the Prime Minister had followed the Right Order and received a message already this spring, so that we could have an open process in which all those involved were given the opportunity to participate, and that one did not agree on the arrangements of the Government and the Centre parties for a process in the closed rooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e142	I believe that there is a dramatic difference between sitting in a hotel room at the Plaza Hotel on the third night and adjusting the tax system, and having three-quarters of a year in the Ministry of Finance to adjust the tax system. So the procedure is significantly improved by the proposal we make this autumn, compared to the procedure for the short-term cost of the Plaza Hotel. The second is that what we're adding up to is not a completely new tax system. We make improvements and changes to the system we have, and the Right has been involved in a wide range of changes to the tax system without much prior treatment, for example. undermining the sharing model, which means that for more and more people with high incomes it has become more and more optional to tax the income as labour income, by 55 p.m., or as capital income, by 28 p.m. And then there are more and more people who choose 28 pst. It's among the injustices we're concerned with doing something, and we're going to get a proper treatment for that autumn. Then it is up to the Stortinget to review these proposals during the harvest, and also to decide when they may be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e149	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e152	One of the problems that people in business often highlight to us here in the United Kingdom is the growing lack of predictability in the framework conditions. Does the Prime Minister think that it could perhaps be a sensible idea to make a kind of rule or practice that all changes, legislative changes, tax systems were always dealt with in the Stortingen Spring for implementation not earlier than 1 January of the following year, and that during the budgetary procedure the rates were discussed within a pre-determined legal framework – i.e. ensuring predictability by addressing all legislative changes in taxes and charges in the spring, so that everyone can have time to adapt and be prepared for the framework conditions, so that such scandals as the cyclical tax that the government party and the middle parties have provided for now can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e157	I am a strong supporter of predictability. That is why I have for many years warned against the changes that, among other things, The Progress Party has voted in favour and received a majority in favour on some occasions of changes in the tax system that have been systematically beneficial to the richest people in this country. So it's obvious that the Progress Party is most concerned about, is the predictability of the richest to avoid a fairer tax system, not in terms of reliefs or reinforcements for those who have the least. For example, the Progress Party has proposed 20 pst. cut in the sick pay scheme. This means for an ordinary Norwegian employee, such as: are exposed to a traffic accident, cancer or other long-term serious illness, such as NOK 50 000 to NOK 60 000 suddenly in reduced income, as a result of the proposal of the Progress Party to cut the sick pay scheme. It is not predictable for ordinary Norwegian employees. It promotes proposals from the Progress Party every year, and it should be a little more concerned with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e163	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e166	I also have a question for the Prime Minister, hoping he might answer the question. During the budgetary procedure before Christmas, it was the government's position that no more money could be spent in Norway without pressure in the economy, despite the huge wealth of money. Gunhild Øyang and Asmund Kristoffersen in the Workers' Party's social committee have now said that they believe it can be used a good many hundred million more in hospitals without inflation – at the latest today in Political Quarter. That was what the Advance Party claimed before Christmas, when we proposed significant additions to the hospitals to make use of the capacity. There have also been signs from the Minister of Finance that he might get some advice from economists in addition to those he has received from us, that he could use something more oil money to improve the welfare of the Norwegian people. Is the government now in the situation that they really recognize that, in some areas, it is entirely possible to spend more money without becoming inflation and pressure in the economy for that reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e178	For my government, it is a general goal to strengthen the Norwegian health care system in general and the hospital services in particular. That's why we're going to spend more money in hospitals. We have proposed and got a majority here in Stortingen to spend more money on hospital treatment than ever before in Norway's history, and Norway will now be among the countries of the world that spend the most on hospitals and health, and are among those that have the highest medical coverage in the world. So we're going to spend more money, and we've got a majority for it. In addition, we need to organise the health system better. Anyone who has looked at the Norwegian hospital system now sees that we are getting less and less for the medical works, for the money that we invest in the healthcare system. That is why we need to organise the health system better. The third thing we did – and that did Tore Tønn just after the government took over last year – was to propose in the health proposition we presented to the Stortinget in April, that we should now open up significantly more patient treatment abroad. We added up to a proper treatment of it, where we could figure out and find the best ways to organize it. But we took the initiative last year. Now we've got a billion dollars to treat patients abroad, and I think we should do it now, because I think it's good for those patients who are treated abroad – that's what we suggested a year ago – but also because I think that if we now get an additional offer, that's an increase in treatment capacity for Norwegian patients abroad, it's part of tightening up the Norwegian healthcare system, and there's a lot of patients who want to benefit, including those who are treated in Norway. So I don't want to be involved in now reducing the effort for treatment abroad. To the extent that more money needs to be allocated to Norwegian hospitals, we will normally deal with it in the context of the changes in the budget we present later in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e187	Does it really mean, then, that the Prime Minister disagrees with Gunhild Island and Asmund Kristoffersen in terms of the information that has now emerged, with which we were well acquainted before Christmas, and which the Progress Party has claimed for many years, that more money for Norwegian hospitals – we suggested among others. to pay the debt to the hospitals, so as to avoid tightening and redundancies of health professionals, but on the contrary had good money to pay overtime and operate on weekends, which is now possible – could have increased capacity quite considerably? I am also pleased that of course you continue to get as much treatment abroad as possible, but I have to be allowed to say that I think the Prime Minister is somewhat rude when he says that it is a working party, after the Workers' Party has fought against such proposals by the Advance Party for many, many years. The second additional question is: will you now start to see if you can buy other things abroad, in the form of study places and other things, to improve the situation for the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e196	The President will address the use of the word «frekk» in relation to Mr. Hagen's posts. It is not considered to be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e199	My government had been in position for a four-week period before we proposed to the Storting to strengthen patient treatment abroad, so that was among the first things we took hold of, and that we are now following up. I warn you that we are not now following up and trying to get more treatment for patients abroad. It is good for those who are being treated, but it also helps to improve the health services we have in Norway, because you get an alternative and get a safety valve. Of course, there is no disagreement between me and the health policy advocates of the Workers' Party here in the Stortinget. They have underlined that the Government now needs to assess whether there is a need for further appropriations in relation to the record level of appropriations in the budget for appropriations in Health-Norway, for hospitals and health care, and the Government will do so in a very common way when we present what is called the revised national budget in May. Then we will look at the need for additional appropriations, as we made additional appropriations last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e208	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e211	I have a follow-up question for the Prime Minister. Are not these exercises on the budget balance in a slightly ridiculous light in retrospect when it is only a few weeks before the Workers' Party and the Centre's comrades, who made a settlement just before Christmas about the budget, fall back on the cyclical fee, and when it becomes apparent that the billion allocated from the Stortinget to patient treatment abroad is equally effective – and perhaps more efficiently and with more health for each krona – can be used domestically? Is it not simply that Norwegian policy needs a slightly different focus, that is, a main focus, on which tasks are to be resolved first and how to do so, not that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are wandering around and tricking the Norwegian people into thinking that a few hundred million from and to the point of view are crossing Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e218	No, it's always so that you can say that a few hundred million from or to not bicker Norway over the stump. I fully agree with that. But it's only been weeks since the Biggest decided on the budget, and I think it's an advantage to respect the Biggest if you wait more than three weeks out in the budget year before you start changing completely fundamental things in that budget. In the case of the short-term charge, it was covered in crowns by removing the short-term charge, but instead deferred the reduction in the investment charge, so it is fully managed within the overall budget line. The starting point is that we spend almost 40 billion kroner next year — more than ever before and more than just as well as any other Western industrialized country — on hospitals in Norway. And there will be overtime on Saturdays and Sundays to treat patients in Norway, in Norwegian hospitals. We've spent money on it, more than ever before. But then we say that, in addition to spending almost $40 billion in Norway, we're going to set aside about $1 billion for treatment abroad, because it's a new alternative that's good for Norway, and we'll defend it and stand by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e227	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e230	The government should be commended for having followed up so quickly on the decision to raise a patient’s brother to the rest of the world. Now the final review in several counties shows that one has a hospital that has to reduce its capacity, one has patients that have to wait a long time, and one even has hospitals that have to say up people because of the budgetary situation. At the same time, there is provision for the preparation of patients for foreign treatment, redisposal of personnel, prevention of infection of osbs. Will the Prime Minister, for the benefit of patients, relatives, add to them and the possibility of getting more treatment out of the money, in such a situation, put aside a bit of the prestige and support for some of the funds being used here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e238	This isn't about prestige. This is about what we think is best for Norwegian patients, how we think we get the best possible Norwegian healthcare system, and how we think we get the most patients treated over time. My government has been busy with two things from the time it joined: both to grant more money to the health care service – we did, and we have granted more money than the central government, with Meltveit Kleppa, once proposed – and to reorganize the hospital service – it comes up with suggestions in a few weeks – so that we get significantly more money back for the money we spend on health, which is more than ever before. In addition to that, we suggested that we allow for more patient treatment abroad, and that is what we stand by. Then I believe that to the extent that during the spring, in connection with the revised national budget, which is the time when we assess the budget in a neat and proper way, we will need additional hospital treatment appropriations in Norway, we will do so in any case, regardless of whether we have allocated 1 billion kroner or not for foreign treatment, because that money to the rest of the world is important to call about anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e243	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e246	In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister said a lot about value issues, and that's good. In a few weeks, the Prime Minister will also present the final report of the Value Commission. And despite the aker's street phenomenon trying to ridicule that commission, I think it has actually contributed and will be able to contribute further to a value debate. Worse was that, I think, one of the members of the Government, the State Council, Bekkemelm Orheim, was able to deliver a preliminary judgment on the Commission's work, before it had even received its final report. I expect the Prime Minister to have a more open and wiser attitude to these questions and to the report. Among other things, we should discuss how we can facilitate a further debate on value, even when the Commission's term of office expires in ours. My questions are therefore: Will the Prime Minister address this without pre-conceived views, as other members of the Government have stated? Will he be open to action to facilitate the continuation of the debate on value issues? And because I know that the Prime Minister has been made aware that the Commission lacks the means to distribute its final report: will he contribute to it as part of such a further debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e255	We are in dialogue with the Commission on financing the Commission's final work and also on sending out the report. And as far as I have an overview, the dialogue is in good proportion to the funding of the broadcast of the report. I am pleased to receive the report. The Labour Party voted in favour of the reduction of the Value Commission in its time. Now it's my opinion that the important thing about a value commission is that hopefully it contributes to increased attention to value issues in society. There are a lot of values that we all agree on. They're often the most important ones, but they're the ones we're discussing at least. Then I believe that there are other values – often perhaps value conflicts – that create debate, and they are the most demanding ones. Then I believe that in relation to the discussion about respect and tolerance, for example. to minorities, people with other sexual orientations and others that we have been supporting from Norwegian society in the past – not many decades since we supported single mothers – have been the kind of demanding value debate in which I feel that we have now come much further in the development of society. We've done that without a value commission, but because we're all now able to show more respect for diversity, for minorities and people we've supported in the past. That's a value debate I'd like to continue to participate in. Whether we're going to organise it somehow through an official body or not, it's too early for me to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e262	I agree that these questions are important value issues. I am also looking forward to the further debate on them. Some of the most important sources of opinion and value in our society are voluntary organisations. They have an important self-esteem. They are important traditional intermediaries in a society that needs a value anchoring. During this discussion in the February 1999 Information on Volunteering, an overall committee said that it was important that state support forms and control mechanisms were adapted to the different forms of voluntary activity. It is important to prevent more bureaucracy for the voluntary sector than is strictly necessary. They do a particular job – need flexible arrangements. The size provided that the government would review them to simplify them. Now I know that the Prime Minister is very concerned with modernising public administration and simplifying legislation. My supplementary question is therefore: How far has the Government been able to simplify legislation towards non-governmental organisations, avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy and stimulating diversity, as part of the simplification project?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e271	I fully agree that the voluntary organisations are doing a very important job in Norwegian society in a wide variety of areas, and that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians are doing a significant job in everything from sports, speeding, parties and humanitarian organisations, under which we are to take good care of and support. Of course, it is also important that the public does not contribute to making this work difficult through complicated rules and unnecessary bureaucracy. And it is obvious that part of the renewal work and simplification work that the Government is now working on, will also aim to make the work of voluntary organisations easier and provide them with better working conditions. It is about a wide range of measures. The last time the Workers' Party was in government position, I was Minister of Finance. That was when we carried out, among other things: significant relaxations in VAT legislation and tax legislation on sports and sports organisations – as one concrete example of how we can help to make it easier for volunteers in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e278	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e281	A question to the Prime Minister: In the last few months, EU authorities have waged a close-up fight against the serious cow disease, which has now been detected in 10-11 EU countries. Several hundred thousand bovine animals have been destroyed and some EU countries have imposed import bans from countries where cow disease has been detected. Strict import rules ensure that Norway remains at the world summit in the field of animal health. Yes, Norway is actually one of the countries in the world where the risk of jealousy is least, we should believe foreign professional authorities, i.e. subject to the maintenance of a strict control regime and the prohibition of imports. Against this background, it has naturally produced strong reactions — I would also say confusion — that the Minister of Agriculture claims that the risk is lower in meat of imported animals than in Norwegian beef. Does the Prime Minister share the risk assessment of the Minister of Agriculture? And what does the Government intend to do to clear up the uncertainty about Norwegian food safety created by these statements?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e290	First, I would like to stress the importance of having a high level of animal health in our country. I am glad that we have it today, and it is also important that we manage to take care of it. Food security, food security, is very important to all of us as consumers, and the Government is also committed to taking care of and strengthening it. This is why the Government has also proposed and endorsed a wide range of measures aimed at improving food safety in general and preventing the spread of mental health, inter alia, linked. to prohibit bone meal in feed. As regards the opinion of the Minister of Agriculture, what he has done is to point out an actual situation in response to a demand for a total ban on imports of all live bovine animals into Norway. Then the Minister of Agriculture pointed to an actual relationship, namely that we control all imports, every imported animal, so that we have a good overview of food safety, while we do not have similar control over all Norwegian animals today. The inspection of all Norwegian bovine animals is now to be carried out from the summer onwards, and then we will have the corresponding control regime for Norwegian meat. The starting point is that we have had more stringent controls on imported meat than Norwegian-produced meat, because in Norway we have been so lucky to avoid having a cow's cuckoo.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e297	It surprises me that the government, in terms of its reaction to jealousy, does not rely more on the known precautionary principle. It has been a Norwegian line that one has given decisive attention to the opinions and opinions that have come from the professional authorities, and we know that, among other things. it is claimed by the State Animal Health Authority that the control procedures currently in place are not sufficiently safe for imports. Last summer, the Minister of Agriculture warned against imports of live animals from countries with cow's disease. What is the reason why the authorities have now changed their attitude to this? Is it related to the fear that an import ban, as proposed by the Central Party at the start of this meeting, will be met with EU trade-prevention measures? Or are there any other reasons why the Government has changed its position in such a short time on this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e302	First of all, it is the government’s intention to ‘prepare var’. This is one of the reasons why we have put in place strict measures, including: The ban on bone meal and that is why we control all live imported animals into Norway. It's not a very large number, it's about 50 animals per year, and they're checked every one. Secondly, this is also the reason why we are going to increase further control in Norway of Norwegian animals, with equivalent control of all Norwegian cattle. In addition, we have now also introduced import bans on cattle intestines to Norway from 1 January 2001. All these are different measures aimed at maintaining and preferably strengthening the high level of Norwegian animal health and food safety. We believe that this is fully in line with the precautionary principles, and that is also why we have a good level of food safety in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e310	There will be follow-up questions – Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e313	Safe food is very important for most people. I must admit that the Minister of Agriculture's statement a few days ago was most suitable for creating confusion, and could leave the impression that the control systems of Norwegian animals and Norwegian meat could be better. In addition, there is the issue of imports of animals and meat from countries where there is evidence of cow disease. My general follow-up question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Government going to review the control arrangements for both what is produced in Norway and what is coming from abroad? And will the Government, as part of this, be open to a ban on imports of meat and animals from countries where there is evidence of cow disease, as some other countries in Europe actually now consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e320	It is quite right in itself that the control of Norwegian-produced meat can be improved. For this reason, the Government has proposed a strengthening of that very control, by introducing the same type of testing as that carried out in EU countries, including Norwegian cattle, and that it will take effect from 1 July 2001. It is, of course, a strengthening of Norwegian control, all cattle being tested, at a much better and more extensive level of testing than was the case in the previous government. What the Minister of Agriculture did was to point out an actual fact that we're testing all imported animals, about 50 pieces. We don't do that with all Norwegian animals, but we're going to do that from summer on. I feel that is a good explanation of the facts, and that is what the Minister of Agriculture did. Then, of course, we'll keep following developments and see if we can get even better and do an even better job compared to what we're all concerned about now: strengthening food security in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e327	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e330	Safe food is the only safe competition strategy for Norwegian agriculture in the future. It is important that the Government now takes hold to ensure this. Just before Christmas, following the advice of the Government, the Stortinget adopted a proposal to increase imports of animals into Norway, namely by equalising the compensation regime for imported and Norwegian animals. Does the Prime Minister, in the light of what has now emerged, think that this was a wise decision, and would the Government present such a bill today, with the knowledge we have of the problems with the import of live animals?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e337	We continuously assess all the rules and regulations relating to the import of animals and the import of food. We are constantly committed to having the best possible legislation to ensure both good animal health and good public health/food safety. That's why we have control of all imports of bovine animals, and we've strengthened the rules of control here in Norway. Then, of course, we continuously consider whether there is a need for further tightening. We listen to professionals and are in dialogue with the political environment and the public about this. And now we have also adopted a ban on the import of intestines for sausage production. So I feel that we are doing a very large amount of work, and the changes in the laws that were adopted before Christmas do not mean that we are undermining Norwegian food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e342	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e345	The Prime Minister may be present. Under the government of Brundtland, a wide-ranging sample was set up to look at industrial policy in northern Norway. The work was completed under the government of Jagland, with Prime Minister Jagland leading the steering group. One of the conclusions on the nutrition strategy for North Norway is that the coastal fleet should be the bearer of fisheries. On 12 January this year the Minister for Fisheries has been in the Federation of Fishermen and said: ‘By structuring the fishing fleet, it will be increasingly necessary to close the general public, thereby preventing the possibility of increased participation in the fisheries.’ The open public is one of the main principles for access to the coastal fleet and also one of the main barriers to the privatisation of access to fishing resources. Is the Prime Minister aware of what the Government of Jagland, in its time, believed that the coastal fleet should be the bearer of fisheries, and does he see that the further closure of the general public is a policy that will prevent the coastal fleet from becoming the bearer of the beam in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e361	I am behind everything that Minister for Fisheries Otto Gregussen has said, and that the representative has just quoted. If the representative wishes to explain further what the Minister for Fisheries said, it may be natural for him to ask the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e366	Then I'll take follow-up questions to the Minister for Fisheries. The Prime Minister is now saying that the talk in the Fischbooträder Association represents the views of the Government. For good reason, the media interpreted this as implying that coastal fleets will have to undergo the toughest structural changes ever in the coming years. From the point of view of the Minister for Fisheries, should the coastal fleet continue to be the bearer of Norwegian fisheries, and does he see that a further closure of the general public ‘to an increasing extent’, as he has formulated it, could be a policy which would just prevent the coastal fleet from becoming so? And as it is interpreted by the media, and as I have understood the article, this adjustment of capacity that is now to take place will hit the coastal fleet very strongly. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e375	I am correctly quoted from this meeting in Tromsø. My point has been that there is an overcapacity in the coastal fishing fleet. The overcapacity manifests itself by the fact that a whole series of these vessels do not operate on a full-year basis with the quotas at their disposal. If we're going to get full-time operations and stable and attractive jobs, it's not possible to increase the amount of fish at our disposal, but it's possible to get this on more boats. We now have a number of cases where fishing boat owners own several boats to get this to go around. It's one of the issues that's a topic when discussing fish jacks. And I'm recording that among the coastal fishing fleet, there's a great interest in getting systems to give you a better quota base for each ship. It is important that we carry out good processes on this, and before doing things in this context, we should have close and active contact with fishermen's organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e381	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e384	I will address the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: In fact, it is now up to someone to assess whether Norway Seafoods is going to take over the fish trawl concessions to Findus. Fresh-fish trawling concessions were given in time to a number of local communities to contribute to employment in the area. That was why the peach trawl concessions were given. With the policy currently being pursued, the general public is closed and the fishing quota and rights are on sale. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that it is a sensible and correct policy that Norway Seafoods is now taking over all the freshwater trawl concessions in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e391	This is a case that is being dealt with and that will come to its conclusion and conclusion within a relatively short period of time. I'm not aware that Norway Seafoods or anyone else is about to gain control of the entire peach trawl fleet. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the case in question in this case concerns a number of jobs in Hammerfest. I would also like to point out that the former owners of the same trawlers were the international company Nestlé, which maintained over a number of years the obligations they had to deliver the raw materials in Finnmark to the companies in Hammerfest, and provided stable and good employment and a safe job.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e396	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e399	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. The UK Environmental Protection Authority has withdrawn the requirement that the state-owned nuclear plant in Sellafield, United Kingdom, must reduce radioactive emissions by 80 pst. It is a provocation against Norway, not least against the coastal population and fisheries. Emissions from Sellafield can be traced along the coast and concentrations are increasing. Was the government notified of this dramatic change by the British authorities before the decision was taken, or was the government informed, as the public, via the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e406	I think that this question should have been addressed most correctly to the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for this. However, Norwegian authorities regularly monitor food safety in Norway. They keep taking samples of products and seawater to make sure it's okay. I can also assure you that we share the concern that may exist that changes in Sellafield could lead to increased emissions in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e413	I want a follow-up question to the Prime Minister. Former environmental protection minister Thorbjørn Berntsen called his English colleague ‘third bag’ as he would not do what was necessary to help reduce the acidic rainfall over Norway. It was perceived as a cash speech from Berntsen directed at the Conservative colleague in the United Kingdom. Will the Prime Minister in its form be as cash and will there be a quick opportunity to present this reaction to the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair? The left considers that this matter is serious, it affects the coastal population and, to a large extent, the fisheries, and should therefore be of a nature which led the Minister of Fisheries to be briefed in the Government on any request from the United Kingdom. But now it's time to follow this up with a reaction, so you can reverse the decision that the British authorities have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e422	We have always, under changing governments, expressed great concern about the emissions from the Sellafield plant, and the Norwegian Minister for the Environment, Siri Bjerke, will take up with the British Minister for the Environment the changes that have now been made, which we do not appreciate, but on the contrary have expressed dissatisfaction. So we're still in dialogue with the British authorities about increased demands for the Sellafield plant, and we've taken it up and we're going to take it up again from the Norwegian Environment Minister to the British Minister for the Environment. It may well be that at some point we take it up at the Prime Minister level, but at first we take it up at the level of the Minister for Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e427	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e430	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. It is gratifying that yesterday the Government lifted the self-imposed ban on exports of wafer products by Norway. This is particularly gratifying for the whale industry, and it is also an impact on the policy of the Progress Party, because we have a proposal for consideration in the Business Committee at the same time. In 1993, Norway resumed the whaling, with strong international reactions and threats of boycott and sanctions against Norway. I expect the government has taken note that some of the same things can happen again. The Government will now take an initiative to provide information to the international opinion, for example: through our embassies or through television campaigns abroad, to get opinion more friendly towards Norwegian whaling, as a counter-reaction to what comes from different organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e439	The decision that was taken yesterday is a consequence of a long-term and strategic policy which has been taken by the Workers' Party from 1982 onwards until, in a way, the circle has been closed and once again has been given a coherent and sensible whaling policy. It is true that, in the context of this decision, our foreign stations are equipped with information and argumentation to explain the position taken by Norway and why it has been taken. It is also the case that there is a readiness at home to meet what had to come from a look-up and arguments against the position taken by Norway. However, we assume that this is a less dramatic decision than when the catch was decided to resume. There is a broad consensus internationally that it is appropriate to take the quota that we are taking, and this is about sustainable harvesting and sustainable exploitation of the entire whale and all the products that can develop from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e447	There are more and more experts and professionals who disagree with the Minister for Fisheries when he says that it is a sustainable tax. It is well that the taxation of wave whales is much lower than the growth rate, and thus violates this principle. The results are: there are strong cuts in fish stocks. Last year, a report from SINTEF said that there was a potential for value creation in the fishing industry of up to NOK 200 billion over 30 years, but the situation had to be resolved. Does the Council not believe that we need to increase the taxation of sales and whales in order to exploit this potential in favour of Norway and Norwegian fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e454	In general, I believe it is right that nature's profits should be harvested, and that this should also apply to whaling. However, international organisations have been chosen to take this responsibility globally. We base the decisions that we make, among other things. on the recommendations of the Scientific Committee of the Whaling Commission. The Whaling Commission itself has chosen not to follow this, and has a fundamental view of the Norwegian whaling, but we have chosen to base our decisions on the scientific advice given. The allowances set annually are based on these advices, and this has been an important contribution to creating such tranquillity in the whale cause that we have achieved through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e459	It would be impossible to have questions about whales without additional questions from Mr. Bastese.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e462	Yes, President, it would be a big surprise in the Chamber if I didn't take the floor. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for the courageous decision they made yesterday. It was a day of joy – a day of joy for the coastal people. My supplementary question is: those who want to howl, scream and shout a little now are, of course, the protest industry, with both Greenpeace and WWF at the head. Each year the WWF receives from the Norwegian Government more than 5 million. kr in different projects. Does the Minister for Fisheries intend to take an initiative to end this subsidisation of our worst opponents in the whale cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e471	I am aware that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working with the WWF and other organisations on important environmental issues. I think we should have an open mind to accept this kind of advice and have this kind of cooperation, just as we have an open mind and accept advice and cooperate closely with fishermen's organisations and with whale-catcher organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e479	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: The Prime Minister has, as far as I understand, planned to travel on an official visit to India next month. In this regard, I would like to know whether he intends to deal with the Kashmir conflict, and in the case of how. According to President Bill Clinton, the conflict between India and Pakistan over Kashmir is the most dangerous conflict in the world, and it has been since the liberation of India from the United Kingdom in 1947. With nuclear arsenals on both sides, it is very important to resolve the conflict. In the period since 1947 there have been three wars between India and Pakistan, mainly because of the Kashmir conflict, and throughout the period there have been serious violations of human rights in the area. The conflict has also resulted in very scarce resources being used for military purposes rather than solving problems related to the basic needs, health and education of the population. Very many people are killed and mutilated, and many are driven on flight. Has the Prime Minister considered how the conflict can be resolved? And will he raise the matter with the Indian authorities during his visit?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e490	The final time and program for my visit to India has not been fixed, but it is quite clear that there will be meetings and conversations where it will be natural to also come into and take up the Kashmir conflict. I am aware that the representative Rise has an in-depth knowledge of that conflict, that he has traveled in the area and certainly has a lot of knowledge that it is useful to attract when we are going to look into the conflict. My assessment is that that kind of conflict must be resolved at the negotiating table, through conversations and dialogue, not using military means of power. In conflicts, there are always at least two parties. Both parties believe they are right. What Norway can do is to encourage and help the parties to sit down at the negotiating table and discuss how to reach agreement by peaceful means. It is not that Norway can impose on the parties a solution they themselves do not agree with. But I hope this gives me the opportunity to discuss during my visit to India.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e497	There are three parties in the area, India, Pakistan and Kashmir, and it is difficult to imagine a lasting solution without all three parties participating in such a dialogue as the Prime Minister mentions. Now there are encouraging signals in the latest on dialogue between India and Pakistan, at least conversations. But I think it's necessary to find a solution based on international law, and initially it's important that organizations like Amnesty International, Red Cross and other relief organizations can move freely and operate in the area. What will Norway do to contribute to such a dialogue, where all three parties participate, and will the Prime Minister put this high on his agenda? I understand that it is not fully established, but will the Prime Minister ensure that this comes up high on the agenda for this visit?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e506	So how we want to deal with the Kashmir conflict, and in the case of what we want to point out in particular, and to what extent we want to have dialogue with particular organisations, it's not yet settled, at least not so far as I'm involved in those contacts or conversations. But it is often the case that the Government is in contact with Amnesty International, other human rights organisations or other international organisations when we visit other countries to collect information and assessments from them. So if this is going to be done in this particular case, I can't answer it now, but I will be able to give more comprehensive answers to it when the trip is specified.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e511	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e515	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following question: In recent times there have been several shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast. This indicates that there is too bad marking of our fairways, and perhaps several of the boats that have gone on the ground, should have also been unloaded on board. One should perhaps also consider whether it should not be imposed an obligation to receive help when a boat is about to drive due to a fault. What will the Council of State do with this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e522	I think it's going to be too simple to say that the reason for all these crimes is because the marking is too bad. I am convinced that the marking can always be better – we are working on it – but the concrete losses we have had lately have been partly due to incorrect navigation and partly to technical failure on board the ships. But we're very concerned about this in the Government. We will have a meeting next Friday with everyone responsible for this, in order to assess whether the situation is satisfactory in the case of traffic in Norwegian teleta. After that, we can provide an overall assessment of the measures in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e529	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and would like to ask the following additional questions: In addition to the lost values, this is also a matter under the Ministry of the Environment, namely that of electronic navigational charts. Should there be no closer cooperation between the departments in terms of safety along the Norwegian coast – then I think of charts, markings, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e536	There is already close, good and constructive cooperation between all those responsible for this. It is also the case that increased efforts will be made to obtain digital charts – which is what is really the problem – that are needed to ensure a good link between the navigation system on board ships and the use of maps. Among other things, a significant increase in the state budget for the current year for that purpose. I can assure you that we are taking this seriously and that we, all those responsible for this, will assess this in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e543	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e546	There is a close link between electronic navigational charts, safety and the environment. It was therefore embarrassing that the government in its budget did not put on the table the appropriations that needed to make progress in the work on electronic navigational charts. The size decided that the job should be completed by 2006. There were no funds left to do, so you could follow up. Now the government was saved through the budget agreement, and a new 20 million was added. NOK to this. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Will he help the Government to follow up the plan to complete the work of electronic navigational charts until 2006, as the Stortinget has now decided in a new decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e553	It's important to get good electronic charts. It is important to make funds available to complete this process. But I would very much like to say that what's going on in order for us to have a safe journey along the coast must consist of many things, and electronic navigational charts are one element.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e561	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e566	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Vidar Kleppe to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative of Laila Kaland to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. Question 8, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been away. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Mr Vedar Kleppe. Questions 13, 15 and 16 from Jan Tore Sanner, Tore Nordtun and Marit Tingelstad, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 14, by Mr Ludvigsen, representative of the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 18, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Defence, the question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. For the sake of order, the President wants to remind government councils and ask about the new arrangement, which means that you stay away from the usual pulpit and use the pulpits on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e592	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Avisa New Tid wrote on 5 January 2001 that Norway has applied to Iraq for compensation to cover, inter alia, evacuation costs in connection with the Gulf War. It is stated that international claims have been made to Iraq for a total of 320 billion. the United Nations has decided that these costs should be taken from Iraq’s food ‘oil’ programme. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider it reasonable that compensation should be taken from money to cover the purchase of food for the civilian population in Iraq?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e601	That's not fair, and that's why we don't. The facts are as follows: Iraq's widespread and persistent violation of international law against Kuwait after the invasion in August 1990 led to considerable destruction. And international law has clear rules on the liability for damages caused to others by acts of international law. It has also been confirmed by the Security Council, as established in 1991 by the United Nations Subsidiary Commission. The Commission treats claims and pays compensation to individuals, companies and countries. The financing of the compensation is derived from Iraq's revenue from the United Nations controlled oil sales. On the basis of the Security Council criteria, the Commission has made extensive payments to a number of claim holders. In doing so, the Norwegian State has received compensation for expenditure incurred by the fact that Norwegian citizens were held hostage in Iraq for three months. These claims are very modest in relation to the total payments. The Commission has been of great importance to vulnerable groups who have suffered severe losses, including: a number of foreign workers and their families, in particular from the Philippines, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, who lived in Kuwait and lost their livelihood as a result of the invasion. Thus, the funds used for substitution are largely used for humanitarian purposes. Only 25 pst. the revenue from the ‘oil for food’ programme is currently being used for replacement purposes. In the case of the remaining 75 pst. the revenue from the «oil for food» programme is essentially earmarked for humanitarian purposes. It is also regrettable that billions of dollars earmarked for humanitarian purposes are still unused because of failure to follow up by Iraqi authorities, which the international community has had few opportunities to influence. So it is money that has been transferred to the Geneva fund that has gone to these Norwegian objectives. And if we hadn't got money to Norway, it couldn't have been added to the 'oil for food' program, which Iraq has the ability to use. Otherwise, it is regrettable that Iraq is not using the money they have for this programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e618	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. So the fact remains that about 25 pst. the ‘food oil’ income of Iraq shall be substituted. According to information from the U.D., Norway has not previously filed such claims as those made to Iraq. And there is also a rather strange list of demands that were submitted from the Norwegian side. So even though this isn't about a lot of money, it raises some fundamental questions, in my view. From the list I can mention the demand for replacement of furniture stolen in Kuwait, the upgrading of the Norwegian staff in Tel Aviv, the overtime payment to local employees at the Embassy in Baghdad and the boarding school expenses to children of a Norwegian diplomat who had to leave. The list is much longer, and much of it is expenditure that it seems natural to count on when you have diplomatic representation in a conflict-affected region. In view of the special requirements and the fact that similar requirements have not been imposed in other cases, it would have been natural, in my opinion, if the Stortinget had been informed in advance of this, and according to the U.D., this has not happened. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs also think that it would be natural to inform the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e631	It is not Norway that has decided to have this replacement Commission, which has its seat in Geneva, it is the Security Council. And it's the Security Council that has opened for that 25 pst. the ‘oil for food’ programme shall be assigned to this Commission. And if Norway hadn't promoted these requirements, it's not like the oil for food program, which Iraq can use to buy food and medicine, would have gotten more money. They continued to have 25 pst. have been held in the Commission’s account in Geneva. And we found it reasonable to demand this. Whether the Stortinget should have been informed about it, well, they'll ask questions from Stortinget's side. However, the fact is that Norway has a policy discussed in the United Kingdom on sanctions against Iraq, on the ‘oil for food’ programme and on the Commission in Geneva. I feel that it is important for the Storting to be informed about and to be involved in, but the details of this, travel bills etc., I think that must be added to the U.D.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e640	Once again, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. However, in my view, many questions remain regarding the policy towards Iraq, both in terms of the approach of Norway and the international community, and also in terms of how to deal with claims for a total of $320 billion that have been raised. Through the leadership of the Sanctions Committee, Norway will be able to play a key role in creating a new strategy towards Iraq. The difficult and firm situation in Iraq and the relationship between Iraq and the United Nations call for new instruments to be created and rethinked. Has or will the Foreign Minister have developed a comprehensive Iraq policy, or a Iraq strategy, and will this be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e651	I have already presented that to the Storting in the statement that was made about the work of the Security Council. It's not right that our chairmanship of the Sanctions Committee gives us the opportunity to adopt a new strategy, that's what our seat in the Security Council might give us opportunities. The Sanctions Committee against Iraq shall only administer the policy drawn up by the Security Council. So it's our membership of the Security Council that in that case gives us the opportunity to add a new strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e660	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The defence has the task of supervising the maritime border. It is best to have good early warning surveillance so that unwanted vessels can be rejected before crossing the territorial border. This will also lead to more efficient use of coastguard vessels. The events of Christmas show that the defense has the technical equipment for monitoring, but lacks the resources, which indicates that monitoring is not good enough. What is the reason why coastal surveillance is not a priority, and what is the status?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e669	Although other departments have primary responsibility for preparedness and action in coastal management, the Defence Department provides considerable assistance to the departments responsible. The defence has several resources used for surveillance in the territorial sea and in the areas where Norway has sovereign rights. I mention in particular aircraft and vessels, including the Coast Guard. In addition, the Defense has two coastal radar chains, one in the north and one in the south. Therefore, I disagree with the claim that coastal surveillance has not been prioritised by the Defence. With regard to the surveillance carried out by the Defence, this is not linked to traffic control. Traffic control, which takes place in inland coastal waters, is the responsibility of the Coastal Agency under the Ministry of Fisheries. When the Defence Coastal Radar Chain was established during the Cold War, consideration was given to the possibilities of discovering foreign military ships en route to the coast of Norway that were in the centre. The coastal chain is currently contributing to general maritime surveillance so that defence commands can form a picture of the activity in the outer waters and thus prioritize the presence of vessels as necessary. With regard to the status of the coastal radar chain, radars in North Norway have been modernised and appear today with good capabilities. The radar chain in the north is manned for 24 hours of surveillance. The radar chain in South Norway has greater limitations, both for technical reasons and due to scarce human resources. The radar chain provides a limited coverage of parts of the coastal waters of South Norway. It is important to note that both radar chains cover only outer coastal waters, from the baseline and out to parts of Norway's economic zone. In practice, the coverage of inland coastal waters is so limited that it cannot be used for traffic monitoring. Due to the fact that the coastal radar chain in South Norway is approaching the end of its lifetime, the Ministry of Defence is currently upgrading/developing new systems for assessment. Different solutions for upgrading radar equipment with significant costs have been calculated in this context. I would like to stress here that, in the context of the break-in period in which the defence is now in, it will be absolutely necessary to concentrate possible investments on the core tasks of the defence. In this context, investments in coastal and marine surveillance will need to be balanced against other operational and military needs. Radar monitoring itself does not necessarily provide information that ships have problems or represent a potential risk of pollution. However, radar systems can certainly be better exploited if they are combined with some form of traffic control or other follow-up. The Minister for the Environment has initiated a meeting with other relevant government councils this week to discuss better coordination in this field and to enhance the use of monitoring capacities and other resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e687	I thank you for your answer. You and St. Prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 as in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 it appears that the ‘coastal chain in South Norway is being assessed as being modernised and enlarged’. Furthermore, St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 that maritime defence has a number of maritime surveillance systems and that, in the context of the Schengen implementation, ‘there will be a need to integrate them better in the year 2000’. I then have the following additional questions: Is it long until it has been evaluated whether there is a need or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e694	As I mentioned, the Minister for the Environment has taken the initiative of a meeting with an overall review of both the issues raised by the representative Bastesen and related issues, including those he now mentioned. And it's natural to see those discussions in the context, so that we find a division of labour between the governments concerned and the ministries that produce the best possible results. But I want to initially warn something if you think that because the defense is much better off than anyone else, the defense can give priority to non-military needs. That's wrong. And Stortinget will have the full opportunity to understand why I say that when the long-term proposal for the defence is available in Stortinget on February 16th according to the plan. It is acknowledged that we need to give priority to the increasingly scarce resources of defence for military purposes. It is also unrealistic to believe that the Coast Guard and Defence can assume full responsibility in this area, regardless of the many legitimate purposes underlying both the representative’s questions and other questions in this street.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e701	I thank you again for the answer. I have another question. In Monday's edition of the Evening Post, reference is made to St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001, describing the establishment of a maritime monitoring centre. This indicates that the central bank is to process the information from, inter alia. Sea defence coastal radars, the fixed installations of oil operators on Norwegian base, Coast Guard traffic centres, etc. However, it also shows that a ministerial meeting will be held next Friday, as mentioned by the Council of State, in order to assess how coastal monitoring can be coordinated. Is it to understand that the Storting has decided to set up and allocate funds to such a monitoring centre without taking into account in the preparatory work how best to coordinate the monitoring resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e710	I believe the answer to that is essentially yes. It is clear that the latest episodes have shown that there is a need for coordination that has not been met and that existing agencies are doing the best they can within the guidelines they have. There is a basis for the Councils to come together now to get a comprehensive overview of how resources can be better used. I can't see that in itself it's critical. On the contrary, it is worthwhile for the Minister for the Environment to take that initiative. But that's something other than saying that you've made decisions on crazy premises. I don't think that's right. The decisions taken by the Stortinget in each subject area are based on the best possible information. But from there to say that all coordination is perfect, something completely different. Because it's not. And therefore the meeting of Friday ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e715	We go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e721	This question, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e724	As the President said, I originally had a question for the Minister of Justice, as it turns out that the Minister of Defence will answer. «I St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000 shows that Norway is responsible for supervising the external border on behalf of Schengen. The borderside monitoring shall be carried out by the Defence. Furthermore, monitoring through the coastal radar chain is an important complement to the presence and patrol of the Coast Guard. What will the Council of State do when we hear in December that the department has the technical means, but not the necessary resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e733	This question is closely related to the question raised by the representative of Bastisen, and therefore the answers need to be seen in the context of each other. It is right that the defence should be extended with external border surveillance in the context of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. The maritime border oversight will be ensured by Coast Guard units as for day-to-day patrols in internal coastal waters. In addition, the defence surveillance systems will have a complementary function in order to optimise the use of vessel resources. As I said in the answer to question 2, there is a distinction between the surveillance that the defence has through, among other things. Coastal Radar Chains, and the traffic control the Coastal Station is responsible for. While the latter is justified by road safety and environmental considerations, the monitoring of the defence is aimed at creating a maritime picture of the activities. In view of this maritime image, the Defence can control its vessels to the extent most appropriate. With current resources and surveillance systems, the defence has not been able to provide a full overview of traffic throughout the territorial waters, as has been suggested. While the coastal radar chain in North Norway has been modernised, the coastal radar chain in South Norway is approaching, as mentioned earlier, the end of its lifetime, and the Ministry of Defence now has this matter under consideration. In connection with the meeting of the departments concerned on Friday, to which the Minister for the Environment has taken the initiative, it will be appropriate to discuss among several themes a better use of the country’s overall monitoring capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e744	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On 11 January, a written answer was given to questions from the representative of Korsberg concerning the Coastal Surveillance of the Defence Agency. In this context, it was blacked out that the Defence does not possess the necessary technology to ensure adequate coastal surveillance. Following the accident of ‘John R’, representatives of the Defence Command North Norway have stated that the Defence has the necessary technology but lacks personnel resources, as demonstrated during the maritime declaration. So my question is, is there a contradiction, a lack of competence, or any other relationship that underlies the divergent explanations that have been given?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e751	I think in such a great mechanism as the Defense you'll be able to find different statements that crack in every direction. In addition, it is a general question for the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence to determine how resources should be used in a scarce resource situation. Lower-level opinions therefore do not answer all the questions. There is a total weighting of the use of the resources in question. So, as I have mentioned, we are committed to engaging in a constructive dialogue with other departments concerned, the Ministry of Fisheries, today represented here with the Minister of Fisheries, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in order to look at how scarce resources – and we have that in any case – can be better used to ensure better coverage in relation to the issues raised by the representative. Of course, if it is true that there is a clear lack of staff and resources, we will have to discuss which department will deal with the personnel and resources involved. And what does this result from any re-priorities in the defence field? It's not enough for a local war captain to say that I can do it, if he's meant for another task in the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e758	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of the preceding article. No 1 shows that there is a need to coordinate the use of existing monitoring resources. It also appears that the replacement and extension of the coastal radar chain in South Norway is considered. An article in the Evening Post the other day may also conclude that there is a lack of resources that is the reason for the reduction in capacity. Based on recent weeks’ disclosures of responsibilities between agencies, it seems reasonable to seek a solution where a budget is given responsibility for the overall coordination of monitoring capacities. It is most sensible that this agency should be given the necessary resources outside the framework, as there is a multi-pronged need to be met. So my last question to the Minister of Defense is, does the Council have any views on such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e765	I have learned through a long life in government that there is nothing called means outside the framework. We all have one frame, and the Stortinget has a single frame. In any case, a solution must be found to the resource problems involved within an overall framework. It's not like we're picking up money on the moon or anywhere else, it's an overall frame. However, it is clear that on that basis, the Government and the relevant Councils are prepared to find the best possible solutions. Renewal of the coastal radar chain up to a level, at least in South Norway, which quickly aims to solve all the problems that it may be relevant to solve, is not relevant to the defence resource situation today. We need to look at cooperation solutions with other departments and departments concerned, and that is the purpose of the meeting that takes place on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e780	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e786	This question, from the representative of Laila Kaland to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e789	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister of State: «Rules, regulations and controls in the construction industry cause many construction workers to stop before the occupation. This is an unfortunate development, which will affect many small businesses in the districts. What will the Council of State do to bring about a simpler bureaucracy in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e798	I am concerned that the legislation in this area is as little bureaucratic as possible. But planning and construction matters involve such important factors that we have to have some driving rules. The overall objective of the building regulations in the Planning and Building Act is primarily to ensure that what is being built meets public health, safety, the environment and the economy. In the summer 1997 revision of the Act, major changes were made to the general application, responsibility and control system in construction matters and the focus was on better quality. Following the transitional arrangements for the former rules of, inter alia, proceedings were initiated, long queues started in many municipalities. This happened, among other things: because a number of incomplete applications were submitted. Today, however, the period of treatment in municipalities is considerably shorter than before the reform, but still too long in many municipalities. Following the reform, several changes have been made to simplify legislation. I would also like to mention that a project for electronic planning and construction is under way, in which I have great faith. The aim is that, within two to three years, a complete electronic construction process will be possible. Application forms for use in construction products are already available on the Internet. The Norwegian Research Council, on behalf of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, shall evaluate the changes to the Planning and Building Act and the Research Council's evaluation project shall also assess how the requirements of the Planning and Building Act of formal systems and documentation affect different types of enterprises. So far, it looks like the number of enterprises is pretty stable, but the size of small businesses has increased somewhat. This whole problem is taking the government seriously. And as I said in the beginning, it's a goal for the Government that these arrangements, laws and rules, are as little bureaucratic as possible, and so are we in the review we're now in the process of.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e813	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that she says that it should be as small a bureaucratic as possible. But I'm also aware that when it comes to construction products, it's important to have running rules, not least to ensure quality. But what's bothering me a little bit is that in my own municipality and also in the county I'm from, we've got more signals from those who run two or three-man businesses, that they spend a lot of time – up to 20 pst. of a day, actually – to complete forms and applications and on controls and quality requirements. The last thing that has happened now is that every single day they have to enter on forms that they have done during the day. It takes a lot of time, so that they can't do the profession they're out of, in a proper way. I want to say that the political signals given by the new government from the Labour Party were very positive, that one should look at this with bureaucracy and paper fields, so that people should not be more and more seated and fill out forms. This applies not only to the construction industry, but also to other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e822	It is, as the representative of Kaland says, a clear goal for this government to make arrangements, laws and rules, which means that we spend the least time writing applications and making reports and that kind of thing, and of course we also have that with regard to, among other things. the Planning and Building Act. There is no doubt, as I also said in my main response, that we have seen a development in some municipalities where both the processing period has become too long, which means that those who are actually going to build will not be built as quickly as they should have built, and that some houses have become more expensive than what is really strictly necessary. We have to balance the consideration of quality, and that things are going on in a proper way, against being as simple as possible. In this context, I take with me the signals given by the representative of Kaland that some – especially as small businesses – spend too much time on just applications, reports, etc. Of course, we also need to bring it with us when we start reviewing the Law on Planning and Building. The goal is that we should spend less time on that kind of thing, but at the same time we should get built houses in a quality right and proper way. That's essentially what we're going to use people for, not to write reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e829	Once again, I want to thank you for the answer, which I thought was very good. What's one of the problems is that part of the small municipalities have a lot of small businesses with two-three people running in such an industry. They are now afraid that these jobs may be lost and that it is the big ones that will take over. It's basically none of those who want to build houses, either light up, because then it's harder to get people to set up single houses. And it gets harder with maintenance and a lot of things like that, and the municipalities are totally dependent on it. So when a staggers the requirement to know these things, but just don't sit and write too much, I think it should be well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e838	That sounds good!
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e843	Then, when you agree, we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e849	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Refugee Council reports that women as refugees from gender-based persecution have been granted asylum in Norway. Central actors believe that the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act causes these women to find it difficult to believe. Governmental signals indicate that gender-based persecution may receive more attention. Will the State Council take the initiative to re-examine applications from women who have been rejected and whose applications were dealt with before gender-based persecution gave rise to attention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e858	With effect from 1 January of this year, the Foreign Affairs Act provides for the decision to be taken on all complaints in foreign matters. The following is, as the representative Valle is familiar with, a judicially-like appeal body, administratively governed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. After the same date, the Foreign Affairs Act does not allow me to instruct me on the interpretation of law, the exercise of judgement or the decision of individual cases. This also applies in relation to the Foreign Affairs Directorate, and implies that the political governance of the foreign field must be governed by law and regulation. The decision to add the complaints to a court-like body was taken, as far as I remember, with the support of SV. I therefore assume that the proposer understands that I can no longer instruct in individual matters. I would also like to add that neither the Foreign Affairs Department nor the Foreign Affairs Directorate are resuming a case unless the applicant takes an initiative in this respect, for example. in the form of a new application. What I want to say anyway is that I want to take the initiative to review this on a general basis, because I am also very concerned about not least the women's perspective, which I know the representative Valle is extremely concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e869	I thank you for your answer. I'm especially pleased with the last approach. I was actually going to ask the Council of State if she would go through the legislation. Nevertheless, I think that in the first part of the answer there was a very bureaucratic approach to these women's applications. They were rejected before 1 January and before this with gender-based persecution was a topic at all. I now register that she says that these women can make new applications. I assume that they will then receive unhindered treatment, and that the Council of State will make sure that is the case. I understand that you cannot go into individual matters, but the Council of State cannot in any way go from the responsibility for how this is done. And that is the case that few are believed in these matters, as the Refugee Council has also come and told us about.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e876	I only respond in the way that the Stortinge has given me the opportunity, and after the decisions the Stortinge zejl has made, namely that after 1 January, it is no longer possible for the State Council – i.e. I – to instruct in individual matters, either to the Foreign Office or to the Foreign Affairs Directorate. It's a decision that's been made in Stortinget. That is why the issues decided before Christmas are settled, and the issues that now apply are dealt with either in the Foreign Affairs Directorate or in the Foreign Affairs Department. So if someone wants to take matters further, one has to deal with the Foreign Department and no longer with the Department. Then I repeat what I said instead, that I feel a need to go through the law on a general basis, not least in relation to the gender perspective and the women's perspective, and that is what I want to take the initiative to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e883	Then the Council of States is also in line with what I call the best forces in the European Union. For this, there is no Norwegian question – there is a general question of how the rules are being practised, and the EU women’s lobby has now taken the initiative of a campaign to look at how gender-based persecution provides or does not provide a basis for asylum and residence. There's one thing I still need to address with the Council of State, and it's going on in practice. The Refugee Council says in its magazine that some reason why so few women are believed is that there is not enough knowledge either about the legislation or about the situation of women in the countries from which they come, and that perhaps – I would add – they do not take it seriously enough. I think this situation and the situation of raped women in Norway – that is, how violence against women has been taken seriously or not taken seriously in Norway – have very clear parallels, which we women politicians must follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e890	I want to go through the things that the representative Valle is bringing up here. Having said that, I also feel the need to say that most cases have two sides, and it's not always that one side of the case can come up, because of professional secrecy. That also applies, I think, to some of the things we're talking about here. But I can't comment on individual matters and can't, of course, instruct anymore. As I said, however, I am extremely concerned about the problem on a general basis, and I promise that we will get a proper review of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e898	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Hamar Arbeiderblad 11 January 2001 reads that it will take from 2 to 4 months to process an application for a work permit for 8 Australian nurses to the Central Hospital in Hedmark. They have gone through language courses, the practical arrangements are made, and they are set up on guards from the end of January. Does the Council of State consider that there is doubt about the granting of a work permit and that the long duration of treatment is necessary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e907	As the representative of Dørum is familiar with, and as I also explained in response to the question from Ågot Valle, it is from 1 January. no longer to be instructed by the Council of State in the handling of individual matters under the Foreign Affairs Act. The specific question asked by the representative Dørum in relation to the case with the eight nurses, therefore, I have no opportunity to do anything about it. However, on the general matter of time, I can inform you that I have already initiated a review of the legislation and procedures applicable to applications for work permits. I would also like to say that I am not satisfied with the situation in this area per year. today, also not that it takes so long to deal with that type of case. For this reason, a working group at the State Secretary level is now in full swing with a review. I have suggested that they give me a position within a few weeks with proposals for action on what can be done to speed up the handling of the type of case, and that it should also be faster to be able to recruit foreign labour than is the case per. today. It is also an important matter for me to get a solution in place as soon as possible, and there may also be a need in this context to make some changes to the foreign law or to the regulation of this law. In that case, the Ministry will give this work a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e919	I am aware that the Council of State cannot instruct in individual matters. Once I've formulated the question that I've done, it's because insight into the administration's practice is a good starting point to influence the administration's rules, and I realized that the Council of State has just taken the initiative to gain that insight. I hope that the Council of State will continue to do so, and I see it as positive what she has said. Can one, after what she has said, calculate that rules are being set up in such a way that more curative labour immigration matters can go faster, so that you don't put everything in the same queue, but you try to sort things by difficulty? For the non-resident administration, family reunification cases, they have asylum cases, and they have labour immigration cases. I saw the Council of State as positive in the past to do something about the legislation on labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e924	I can confirm that it is my clear goal that this type of matter must be able to be dealt with much more quickly. At the same time, we must also be aware of what the Stortinget has also said, namely that the administration of foreigners is required to give priority to asylum matters. But there are many ways to organize this work, and my clear goal is that the kind of things we, for example. We're talking about, we're going to be able to go much faster than the situation per. Today, and that is also according to the guidelines I am now working.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e929	Let it be allowed for an old social worker and for another type of experience to suggest that you can follow the surgical principle: something is hopeless, something is in the middle, something is easy. But I see that the Council of State is actually doing that kind of activity, and I declare myself satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e937	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Rogaland Central Hospital is now discussing a reduction in activity due to the budgetary situation. One of the suggestions you should consider is the cancellation of 175 people. This occurs at the same time as it is available to prepare patients for treatment abroad with the additional tasks that follow with it. Will the Council of State for the consideration of patients, relatives and members of the public, and in order to obtain as much treatment as possible out of the ‘sickness billion’, initiate a dialogue so that more of the extra resources can be used in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e946	I see no direct link between the work on the budget for the central hospital in Rogaland and the work on implementing the Stortingen's decision to use NOK 1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. Over the last few years, the size has increased the amount of money allocated to patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals. In addition to the ordinary appropriations, exceptional resources have also been adopted, at the latest at the time of the treatment of St. Prp. No 47 for 1999-2000 in the spring of 2000. The government's budget proposal for last autumn resulted in a further increase in the appropriations allocated to hospitals for the current year. This proposal was adopted without amendment by the Stortinget. In view of the many changes made in other budgetary areas resulting from the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the inter-parties, I have to assume that there was a great deal of agreement on the Government's proposals in this important area. It was about the same time that the Stortinget decided to grant NOK 1 billion exceptionally for treatment of Norwegian patients abroad. The working party was familiar with this proposal. This is due, inter alia, to: that we considered the matter to be insufficiently investigated at the time, and that it should also be seen in a more detailed context with the budget as a whole for 2001. We also felt that the procedure was contrary to the Storting's own budgetary rules. However, this did not mean that we opposed the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad, rather on the contrary. However, the majority, including the representative Meltveit Kleppa, stressed the importance of getting the patient treatment started abroad as soon as possible. It was also stressed that these were funds to supplement the ordinary appropriations for Norwegian hospitals, which would not affect the Norwegian domestic economy. I now see it as an important task to ensure a good and effective implementation of the Storting decision. I believe that treatment abroad should be an important addition to our own capacity. However, this is a demanding task which should not be disrupted by significantly changed assumptions now. I am also familiar with the fact that a proposal for the redeployment of the grant of the Storting for treatment abroad is already in the Stortinget. I therefore see no reason to initiate a dialogue, as the representative of Meltveit Kleppa asks, nor can I quite see who I should initiate a dialogue with in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e960	Sjukehusa in Rogaland has been converted from 1 January 2001 into state-owned enterprises. They have sorted ordering and performing roles; they have contracted what can be done. The result is 2 700 fewer patient treatments than in 2000. They have to cut supply compared to the previous year, and the budget situation means that the Central Hospital Board will soon have to decide on proposals to cancel 175 people and stop hospital services in Egersund and Sandnes. At the same time, the hospital has the ability to prepare patients for foreign operations, send with accompanying staff, prevent infection, etc. – in sum, at higher costs and with higher risks and additional taxes for patients, relatives and added. I think it is alarming if the Minister of Health does not see that context. The Deputy Spokesman in Rogaland, in a letter to the Minister of Health in November and December, asked for contact on the situation. I also think that it is alarming if the Minister of Health does not see who he can engage in dialogue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e967	Once again, I would like to say that I am experiencing the question of the budget for the Rogaland Central Hospital as a matter other than the case asked by the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, namely, about a dialogue on the redeployment of the extra funding that the Stortinget has decided to provide for the treatment of patients abroad. As regards the budgetary problems of the central hospital in Rogaland, there are, of course, questions which, when taken up with the ministry by the county council, will also be the subject of discussions between the department and the county municipality. But – I repeat – it is a different matter and a different theme than that which had to be associated with the implementation of the Stortingen’s decision to grant NOK 1 billion for the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e977	The centre party raised the issue of more money directly to health in Norway in the context of the budget. We didn't get multiples of that, but we got multiples for extra privileges to the county councils. In a letter to the Minister of Health at the end of November – by Ola D. Glötvold – we raised the question of available capacity. We were confirmed by the Minister of Health that some of this hospital billion must be spent domestically, for example. to prevent infection. So this is a context. In Rogaland they say: Let's use our head, let's ask to use some of these funds in a way that actually allows us to treat more patients in total. Instead of prepping us for repatriation of patients from abroad, let us treat them within the capacity we now have. And I want the Minister of Health to follow this up with the owner of the Central Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e984	In the case of the billion granted for patient treatment abroad, it is also clear from the decision that some of the money will be used to manage the system of associated tasks which it entails in Norway. It will, of course, be used as provided for in the decision of the Storting. But otherwise, I have to repeat what I have also written in response to the question to which it is referred, that I do not see that I have any authority to begin to dispose of the billion that Stortinget has granted for the treatment of Norwegian patients abroad, in any other way as the decision now stands. In such a case, a new decision must be taken by the Grand Duchy which took the decision it took a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e992	This question, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e995	I hope it's not the situation in the NRK that has become so strong that when the Minister of Health is going to answer the question, it goes well. My question is as follows: ‘The media have found that the NRK, TV 2 and Telenor are negotiating for closer cooperation, inter alia, with a view to the development of a digital network. This is alarming news precisely because NRK and TV 2 are the two largest players in this sector in Norway. Such close cooperation could adversely affect competition in the media market in Norway, including the exclusion of any other actors. How does the Council of State proceed to such cooperation, which will restrict competition in the media sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1004	In the autumn of 1999, the size covered a major communication on digital television, which also discussed a number of issues relating to the groundline for such broadcasts. The Ministry then agreed that the development of such a network should not be a state task, as one might say. has solved it in Sweden. Instead, development should be based on demand for capacity in the market, as is the general government policy for the development of so-called broadband. However, the State shall ensure that important cultural policy considerations are safeguarded by the use of television frequency capacity. Ensuring that Norwegian public broadcasters, including local television broadcasters, have good framework conditions in such a network, is one of these considerations, and also that the network becomes nationwide. The establishment of a digital network will require official authorisations both for those operating the network and for those responsible for its transmission and, inter alia, where. such cultural policy leaders may be included. With regard to the talks mentioned between Telenor, TV 2 and NRK, it is not natural for the authorities to get involved at the current stage. The parties have not concluded their discussions and have therefore not defined the scope. I, i.e. The Minister of Culture in this case is therefore unable to decide on any cooperation at present. If stakeholders later take some form of initiative, I will consider whether the cooperation plans are in line with the Stortinget agreement and other regulation in the field of broadcasting. Only after such a possible recording will I also be able to assess my role as the owner of the NRK. I again stress that it is always about the country's Minister of Culture and not the Minister of Health. However, I would like to say that the NRK and TV 2 are the two main intermediaries of Norwegian-language audiovisual productions in the TV sector. In particular, with regard to the development of a digital television network, some form of participation of these two companies is an important prerequisite for starting up and making this attractive to a Norwegian public. Therefore, initially, I am positive that there is contact between the three parties mentioned. The Government’s action plan for broadband communications, presented in the autumn, mentions the implementation of appropriate regulation with a view to the rapid establishment of a digital television network as a promotion of competition. The deadline for this action is set for 2001. The development of such a network would be conducive to competition by increasing competition for offers and prices between the two existing digital broadcasting platforms, cable and satellite. Competition in the broadcasting sector will also increase by allowing a digital network of broadcasters to obtain concessions for nationwide broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1015	What the Council of State is now saying is a little in contrast to what the Minister of Culture said in the evening post on 11 January. There the Minister of Culture says that she is in favour of such cooperation, the Minister of Culture actually asks that the parties intensify the work, and she does not, according to that article, exclude the State from going in with public funds to finance such a digital groundline. The problem of such cooperation between these parties is, of course, contrary to what the Council of State now says, that it will restrict competition. There will simply not be any frequency available for other actors wishing to enter the market in the case of ground nets, whether for new Norwegians or for non-residents. It is also confirmed in a headline in Today’s Business, where Telenor’s legal adviser, British Sullivan & Cromwell, concludes that this media giant becomes inedible to the EU simply for competition reasons. The result of this is likely to be that this media giant will have a full monopoly, so that all the customer will be inspected and checked. Will the Council of State stop these plans, and if not, when will the Government inform the Storting of these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1022	Firstly, with the clear reservation that I must now be careful so that there are no differences of opinion between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Culture on this issue, and that I have not previously participated in this public debate, I would just repeat that there is no difference, as I see it, between what is being said here today and what has been said in the past that the Minister of Culture is basically positive that there is contact between the three parties mentioned here. It is probably a positive attitude to those conversations, given that they are the strong and experienced players in this field as they actually are, and that they should also be involved and play a role in the future promotion of the area. Then it is clear, as it is also said, that when this leads to any conclusions, the Minister of Culture will decide on them, including the competitive aspects of it, in the light of what must then be a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1029	The Council of State referred to previous treatments in Stortinget. It is that the Storting has at least not taken into account whether we are going out with billions to build a ground. It is a reality that Telenor is the owner of Norkring, who is the actor in Norway who wants to develop a digital ground network, which, moreover, the Progress Party was alone about being against that time, and who, as the Council of State was in, has also become a failure in Sweden. This kind of expansion will cost billions. It is clear that Norkring must have large funds, both from NRK and TV 2, before such expansion takes place. The price is likely to be so high that TV 2 will hopefully withdraw from such cooperation. Then my question is: will the government at any time review the plans for the development of a digital network, which will in the long term offer a lower offer than the alternative, which is satellite, also given that the NRK can already get its broadcasts out to the population digitally through, among other things. Viasat?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1036	As far as this question is concerned, I can only repeat once again that it is not considered a state task to participate in any such expansion. I think so. And in case that's going to happen, it has to be based on, as you say, a demand in the market. It is also other than the authorities which are required to assess its presence and which may also have to take the risk of deciding to accept such an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1044	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘One year after the train accident at the Åsta station in Hedmark, where 19 people died, an audible alarm has now been placed at the Hamar train drivers. However, it will take half a year before it is put into service. A new installation with ATS and the old signalling system shall be approved by the Railway Authority and not until summer. [[Automatic Train Stop]] In the meantime, the Rørosbane is manually controlled. Is the Council of State satisfied with this, and if not, what will the Council of State do to advance this important work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1053	During the reopening of the Rørosbahn after the train accident on 4 January 2000, the remote control of the Rørosbanen was decommissioned and the safety of the train running was ensured by the signalman at the individual station. I have been informed by the State Railway Authority that it was intended that this mode of operation would be used until “Partly equipped ATC” – D-ATC, former ATS – was installed and put into service. However, in its report of 6 November 2000, the Government Appointed Commission recommended that a total reengineering, a design review, be carried out by the protection facilities on the Rørosban before the installations are put into normal operation and before the D-ATC is installed. This work has been started at the Railway Station under the supervision of the State Railway Authority. The work is planned to be completed on 15 May 2001 and the approval of the Railway Authority could be obtained after normal processing time. As long as the remote control is switched off at the Hamar train control, the sound alarm has no function. D-ATC will also have a limited value in the current mode of operation. There is a dialogue between the Railway Agency and the State Railway Authority to assess the maintenance of parts of the work, and I have been informed that this work is a priority both at the Railway Agency and the State Railway Authority. It would not be right for me to go in and check the safety aspect of this matter, but I assume that the railway supervision as the department’s safety professional body follows this closely. The most important thing for me is that safety is ensured, and I am sure that the railway works and the supervision will do what is possible and necessary to get the system operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1066	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which includes: The Council of State states that the most important thing is to ensure security. In respect of the deceased, in respect of new passengers and not least for those working in the NSB, the Council of State is pleased that such an important task as getting these security measures in place has taken about. One and a half years? Is this an acceptable time period? I also remind you that only 17 out of 41 security measures have been carried out after this accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1073	As I said in my main response, the use of time here is primarily a result of the recommendations made by the Commission after the AST accident. For me, it is obvious that these recommendations are followed, not least by respect for both the survivors, for the survivors and also for the company. So it's that we can get a system that has broad trust, more important to me than the moment, although of course I want this to happen as soon as possible. On the question of the number of actions implemented, it is true that safety measures are still under way. It is also possible to categorize these differently. But it doesn't necessarily give a good, representative image to operate with, for example, numbers like 17 out of 41. There are measures in progress. It is necessary to provide for the safety work. It is also done, both at the Railway Station and not least under the direction of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1082	It's always easy to be a back clock. With regard to the history of these routes, it was necessary to submit a tender in order to have such an installation. There has been a lot of talk, ranging from 1975 to 1990, which has been mentioned, 1992 and 1995, in terms of security and the putting in place of security systems on these pathways. At the same time, when it is read in the paper that according to the information manager, Tine Commissioner at the North Railway Agency, the signallers have incurred an extra cost of between 4 and 5 million. Since the track was opened without remote control after the accident, you can see how much money has been spent afterwards on this accident, money that could certainly have been better spent on things in front of the accident. As I said, it's easy to be a follow-up clock, but I would like to have some thoughts from the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1089	It is impossible to disagree with the representative Bredvold in what is his conclusion, namely that such facilities that could improve safety and thus lead to that we had not had the tragic accident, should of course have been in place. When this is not the case, it is absolutely necessary to have a manual control that is of such quality and of such a nature that it has both confidence and of course meets the requirements of the Railway Authority. Then I am aware that this entails costs in the form of personnel. But here the choice is too simple. Either we have to be willing to take these costs, or we can't run the track under the current conditions. We have chosen to take these costs. I think that's a right choice in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1097	I ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The Committee on Transport has favoured the development of a new concept for fast journeys. It has been shown that this type of ferry can be used on the route Tau-Stavanger. Despite previous goodwill, the Directorate of Roads now says that there is no room for investment in this connection in the coming years. Will the Council of State contribute to the rapid ferry project Tau–Stavanger’s rapid realization?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1106	Renewal of ferries in national road links has been in progress for several years to provide safer, more efficient and environmentally friendly ferries. The development of gas ferry M/F “Glutra” is the most extensive and, according to the Directorate of Road, the most successful of these projects. Projects with electric ferries, cable ferries and the development of medium-speed ferries are also interesting development projects that need to be mentioned in this context. I welcome the fact that new projects are being developed. However, on the basis of a transport assessment, it is important to stress that investment in new types of ferries will also need to be adapted to the need for the renewal of existing fleets and the economic framework for investments in the ferry fleet. As is well known, in the 2001 budget proposal, the Government proposed to give priority to tribal and important regional relations in 2001. The size had no comments on this. Also in the national transport plan, it is recommended to replace old ferries in a district connection. In addition, it should be mentioned that a not insignificant part of the investment in 2001 will have to be used for investment in existing ferries to improve the environment and maritime safety. Also in the future, large sums will probably have to be used for upgrading existing ferry fleets. The Directorate of Road informs that the Stavanger-Tau ferry service is good in terms of capacity, opening time and frequency. Any investment in a high-speed ferry would be beneficial to road users due to reduced travel time. In addition, if quick ferries can replace parts of the quick boat offer on the same route, the county may save costs by reducing the speedboat offer. On the other hand, government expenditure on national road ferries will increase. Only the conversion of the quays is estimated to be approximately 12 million. kr. The Road Directorate has re-assessed the need for investment in national road ferries in the coming years and has looked at the situation in the Stavanger-Tau connection in particular. The conclusion is that there is a need for priority to be given to route links with capacity problems and rural links with small and older ferries. The use of any Ferry Cat 120 catamaran ferries must be assessed in relation to their needs, etc. in the current update connection. With the economic framework put at its disposal and with the existing needs for investment in the national road ferries, I find it difficult to impose on the State Road Administration to assist in the rapid realization of the fast journeys to Stavanger-Tau at the expense of other connections, but I repeat that I see very positive developments in the very type of ferry.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1119	What we're talking about here is a project that has an interest and significance in addition to the distance that the ferry is going to travel, and I feel that the Council of State confirms in its answer. It should be of national interest to develop this concept because it could both be used elsewhere in Norway and be relevant for exports. The company in question is willing to realise this project outside the investment framework. So what we're talking about here is an increase in the cost of capital, because the operating costs will also be significantly reduced. My question is whether the Council of State is willing from a good perspective to meet the wishes of the county rapporteur in Rogaland for a meeting to discuss this project with a view to achieving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1124	That's two questions we're discussing here. I see the context – by realising a ferry project Stavanger-Tau and then using this type of ferry, you can achieve benefits with other means of communication as well as with the development potential of this ferry. But after all, we need to see at the same time whether it can be done without distorting the priority – where it is right to introduce new holiday materials – too strongly. There, I find it difficult to re-prioritise as much as you have to if you want to put in new material between Stavanger and Tau immediately. However, I would like to take a closer look at how we can contribute to the development of the ferry type, and of course I will not oppose any further communication with the county council of Rogaland and, if necessary, a meeting with the county rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1131	It is positive in the light that the Road Directorate concluded that one did not see the need for such a meeting. That's what I mean. If the credit is granted here on the part of the State and other actors, it should be possible to realise this project without causing significant adverse effects on other projects. And I would like to point out that the reason why this seems interesting is the socio-economic gain that you'll obviously get. The cost, as it appears when others other than the Road Directorate are looking at it, should be affordable, so I hope that the contact with the County rapporteur, as the Council of State here opens up, can help to bring this project forward and not be put in any doubt, as I see it that the Road Directorate provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1136	I can assure the representative of Kvassheim that we will ensure good communication with both the municipality of Rogaland and other stakeholders who have an interest in this project, not least with those who are responsible for the development of the holiday concept itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1144	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: «In Lofoten, all the samples of the lovot fishery have unanimously entered in order to maintain Sunday as a free day for fishermen. Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag has asked the Ministry of Fisheries to draw up regulations prohibiting fishing for public holidays in the whole of Lofoten from 1 January 2001. There is already a large fleet in place, and it is therefore not appropriate to wait until the Lofoto vision is introduced. How will the Council of States deal with this matter, and when will any clarification be available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1153	The general holiday satisfaction in the fishing was in Ot.prp. No 66 for 1999-2000 proposed repealed and replaced by a basis for regulations on fishing and fishing on Sundays and public holidays. Following the draft law, such rules may be laid down, inter alia, in respect of: specific areas and for specific fisheries or groups of vessels where such regulation is deemed necessary for the rational or appropriate exercise or execution of fishing and fishing. The bill has been adopted in Odelstinget and Laginget, but has not yet been sanctioned by the King in the Council of State and has thus not entered into force. The general holiday satisfaction with the ban on fishing and fishing from midnight to midnight on Sundays and public holidays is therefore still present. Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag has asked the Ministry of Fisheries to start work on formulating regulations for fishing on Sundays and public holidays ‘in Lofoten and neighbouring areas with high use concentrations’ as of 1 January 2001. Before sanctioning and bringing into force the decision repealing the general public holiday satisfaction in the fisheries sector, the Ministry of Fisheries will consider the proposal for ‘sacred holiday food in the Lofoten and neighbouring areas with high use concentrations’, as promoted by the County Fisheries Team. Different fisheries have their characteristics, such as: with regard to fishing intensity and market conditions. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Fisheries has an active attitude to the use of the regulatory body in the legislative proposal and that the Ministry should use the holiday satisfaction in cases where good and factual reasons justify this. The Ministry of Fisheries will decide before the entry into force of the Decision on the abolition of holiday satisfaction whether to lay down rules on holiday recreation ‘in the Lofoten and neighbouring areas with high use concentrations’.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1168	So as far as I can see the Minister now, this law has not yet entered into force. That means that the holiday satisfaction in Lofoten is maintained until further notice, as I now interpret the minister. But I want to ask you a little bit further, because eventually this law will come into force. This issue has created a great deal of debate in the fisheries sector, and it is clear that the Norwegian Fisheries Team, which was in favour of the change, is not fully in line with the members. Personally, I have had enquiries from the desperate fishermen who wonder whether the politicians have the consequence of abolishing the general provision on holiday food. Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag expresses great dissatisfaction with the decision and believes that the suspension will lead to a deterioration in the social situation of fishermen and that it will help to reduce recruitment to the industry by a long way. There are strong economic drivers in the fishing industry, and I would therefore ask the Minister for Fisheries if he agrees with Nordland County's Fiskerlag that the decision could have such consequences as they suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1175	No, I cannot agree that this has the dramatic consequences that have been suggested. The purpose of the proposal for amendments to the law on holiday food was to avoid a practice of general holiday food from which a lot of exemptions had to be granted to allow fishing to be completed in an appropriate and rational manner. Now, when we've kind of mirrored this, that doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to have holiday food where it's useful. But in the vast majority of cases that have occurred lately, which have gone on this with exemptions, it is unfortunate that you have to deviate from the rule. But, as I said, the attitude to the introduction of sacrilege where it is appropriate is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1180	Finally, since I do not think I have received a clear answer from the Minister, I would like to ask whether he intends to draw up regulations which in the future will lead to the provision of holiday food during the loot fishing. At the same time, I would like to ask what are the consequences for other fisheries, whether this is going to be reasonably large, or whether it is only about Lofoten.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1185	I intend to make sure that we get holiday food in Lofoten, as the fishermen want. It is not possible to overlook all the consequences that may arise in the exercise of fishing, and it is in the exercise of fishing that we have repeatedly had to grant exemptions. There may be market conditions that require a certain intensity of fishing, weather conditions, etc., and this has been the basis for the large number of exemptions that have been granted in the past and that are unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1194	This question, from the representative of Terje Knudsen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Vidar Kleppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1197	I am just as concerned with monitoring along the coast as my colleague Terje Knudsen, so I allow myself to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Minister for Fisheries has said that work will be undertaken to coordinate monitoring along the coast. St.meld. No 22 for 1997-1998 states that the Defence Agency is responsible for monitoring the Norwegian area of interest. Defence is also responsible for first line preparedness in the context of coastal surveillance. It is understood from the Fisheries Minister’s reply last week that the Ministry of Fisheries will take the initiative in coordinating monitoring. Is this correctly understood, and in that case does the Council of State consider this to be natural?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1206	The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for the civil surveillance centres established for shipping. As I explained last week's questions, these centres are set up to enable the Coastal Agency to monitor and enforce the rules of navigation and to provide the necessary information and navigation assistance to vessels operating on the inner waters covered by the centres. Three traffic centres are currently established. This is Oslofjorden traffic centre in Horten, which oversees Oslofjorden, Brevik traffic centre, which oversees the entrance to Grenland in Telemark, and Fedje traffic centre, which oversees the entrance to Sture and Mongstad in Hordaland. In addition, under construction, we have a traffic centre on White Island in Rogaland, which is expected to be completed during 2002. The defence also has maritime surveillance tasks, but mainly includes surveillance of activities outside the baseline in order to ensure a satisfactory level of sovereignty and the exercise of authority. I have suggested that we should assess whether monitoring resources can be better exploited and coordinated. In this context, there may be a need for an overall assessment of the possibilities for making better use of State resources. The relevant state councils will therefore meet on Friday this week to discuss safety and preparedness along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1217	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that there are 25 different organisations and several departments that have this responsibility today. That's why it's nice that we finally get a coordination of this, and that the different state councils sit down and discuss what a concrete one should do. After the question from Terje Knudsen was submitted, Stortinget was informed that the initiative was taken by the Minister for the Environment. In particular, in the context of «John R», attention is paid to the need for monitoring and warning of the problems encountered by these vessels when reaching the internal waters. This kind of maritime surveillance is well within the responsibility of the Defence Agency. The size has authorised the Directorate of Fisheries to launch a pilot project for satellite tracking of fishing vessels. Given the national responsibility of the Defence Agency for the monitoring of Norwegian sea areas, it would probably be natural that the Defence Agency should be given the responsibility to carry out such a job within the existing powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1222	It is true, as has been said, that the responsibility for coastal safety has been borne by many ministries. In a normal situation, this has worked satisfactorily. The special accidents we have had now are due to partly technical defects on ships, partly navigational failure. It has revealed that there is a need to look at whether the division of labour that we have is the right one, and who may be responsible for the different situations. What is important is that this is coordinated, that there is overall responsibility for this. And then we get in meetings and in the process afterwards clarify where it is most appropriate that the different parts of responsibility should be anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1227	I am also aware that the Ministry of Fisheries has concluded bilateral agreements for the exchange of information related to the monitoring of shipping and fishing fleets. I am not aware of the basis for this kind of monitoring by the Coastal and Fisheries Directorates. I am also not aware of the authorisation available as a basis for the agency that exchanges information of this type. Can the Minister for Fisheries briefly give an answer to this question and identify the basis for such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1232	The system put in place by the Fisheries Directorate is a system intended exclusively to monitor the activities of the fishing fleet. It's developed because we have a whole range of fisheries agreements that give different quotas in different waters. This is provided for in international agreements between Norway and the other nations with which we have fishing cooperation. It has been implemented in parts of the Norwegian fishing fleet and it has been implemented in the foreign fleet fishing in Norwegian waters and in other waters. In the future, this will be an important international instrument for the enforcement of fisheries regulations. The system will tell us where the boats are and how fast they are going, and it will also give us the opportunity to have a clear understanding of what the boats are doing – whether they are at rest, whether they are being transported, or whether they are fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1247	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1253	This question, from Svein Ludvigsen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1256	‘In the autumn there have been several shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast which have revealed a lack of preparedness. During Christmas the cargo ship «John R» landed in Troms, and the subsequent rescue operation of bunkers and vessels also showed failed preparedness and execution here. Good weather prevented oil leaks that would have dramatic environmental consequences, but also debris is itself an environmental threat. What will the Government do to ensure credible and satisfactory coastal preparedness and security?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1263	I will begin by stressing that operations such as the discharge of ships and the efficient collection of marine oil are often difficult and risky. At the fall of the ‘Green Ålesund’ north of Haugesund, both the inter-municipal preparedness and the state’s preparedness were quickly in place with bilges and catching vessels, and the oil at sea and in the coastal zone was collected. The wreck was emptied without any time going to the game. In the case of the loss of ‘John R’ north of Tromsø, the protection of oil was not tested to the same extent as no significant oil spill occurred. However, the state’s preparedness was quickly put in place with ships and oil protection equipment. What was special about ‘John R’ was that emergency relief took a relatively long time, and that uncertainty about the amount of oil on board resulted in two emptying operations. The weather conditions contributed to the rapid collection of the oil from ‘Green Ålesund’ and to the disposal of the oil wrecks. The picture would have been quite different if the weather conditions had been worse. With the cargo vessel «Fykan», which went due outside the Fosen in Trøndelag last Friday, we were reminded that something had to be done in this area. I consider it very important that a strengthening of preparedness should include both preventive measures – to prevent accidents from occurring – and measures taken to limit the level of harm after the accident/hazard has occurred. As you know, the Minister for the Environment has therefore initiated a meeting with the most concerned state councils on Friday, so that systematic efforts can be undertaken as soon as possible to concreteise both preventive and preparedness measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1272	The “John R” accident showed that there was a lack of uniform management and responsibility, and that both the preventive preparedness to prevent accidents and the cure, i.e. minimise, the consequences of accidents, failed to function properly. SFT, Coast Guard, Maritime Directorate, Maritime Defence and Regional Oil Protection were not well coordinated. The county emergency department – which in Troms proved to be very competent in the winter of race – as well as the municipality was not notified. Today the magazine Tromsø reports that the seabird in this wintering area is infested and the safe death encounters. This underlines that we are now beginning to see the long-term consequences of the accident. It is good that it should be a meeting Friday. I hope that there will be important things to address, such as this with the traffic controller and reporting obligations for vessels in traffic controllers, that the Coast Guard's warning responsibilities and the continuous monitoring of the observations will be taken up, and that questions related to this with storage will be addressed, because that was a problem. My question is, When can we get a case to Stortinget, where we can decide on the level of ambition, resources and command structures?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1279	We suggest that we get a case to Stortinget as quickly as we can, where this will be discussed. But we have to ask for the necessary time to do a decent job. There are, as we know, many agencies involved in this, and it's a pretty complicated balance to figure out how this can be organized in a way that's effective in relation to the purpose. However, we will come back to this after it has been discussed, and I would like to remind you once again that we need to have a broad assessment of this. The three accidents we've had represent some kinds of accidents, but not accidents because the normal situation is that we have bad conditions along the coast. There is talk of machinery failure and navigational failure in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1289	This is complicated – yes. I would like to remind you that the Right already in January last year raised these questions in an interpellation, and we had expected something to be brought in this spring. We're in a hurry to bring something. Another question: The Director of Fisheries Directorate Control, Arne Luther, informed at a conference last week that he and his directorate, who manages the fishing resources, have not been involved in any of the accidents like this in any way. Will the Council of State ensure that the fisheries authorities become part of the preparedness and action when accidents first occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1296	The Council of State will see to that. Both the fishing industry and the farming industry depend very much on their readiness to do so and on their ability to take action. As far as I am aware, there are procedures to alert regional fisheries authorities when this occurs and when action is needed. If this has not happened in the case of ‘John R’, it must be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1321	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1327	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘Sea King readiness on Rygge has a response time of 45 minutes. By following NOU 1997:3 About the rescue helicopter service, which suggested 15 minutes of response time, the service will be able to save more lives. This is a requirement of the United Kingdom and Denmark already have. Will the Government follow up recommendations and good arrangements in other countries by deciding to reduce the response time to 15 minutes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1336	Today, the response time requirement for rescue helicopters in Norway is 60 minutes. Now 1997:3 proposes to reduce response time to 15 minutes, as highlighted by the sample as an important element for saving lives, both at sea and on land. It is important to adapt the rescue helicopter service to changes in needs. Today there is more activity in the sea and on the base than when the requirement of 60 minutes in its time was put in St.prp. No 33 for 1970-71. However, for the rescue helicopter service in Norway, it is important not only to look at formal requirements but at reality today. Within the normal working hours, between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 16, the objective is that the rescue helicopter shall be in the air within 15 minutes. On the other hand, the average over this period is between 18 and 20 minutes. Except for normal working hours, where the crew has a home watch, there is an average response time of 30-40 minutes. The representative Hedstrom refers to the United Kingdom and Denmark, and today they have stricter response time requirements than Norway. For the sake of order, I would like to mention that Denmark is only entitled to a 15-minute response time in working hours, in other words, the same response time as we actually have today. Except for this time, the requirement is 30 minutes. The United Kingdom has a demand for 15 minutes of response time at daytime, in other words: once again the same thing that we really have close to today, and 45 minutes outside of daytime. Sweden operates with requirements for 1 hour 24 hours a day. On the basis of the significant rescue resource represented by the Sea King helicopters, I see the importance of having as short a response time as possible 24-hourly. Accidents are known not only between hours. 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox I intend to present a big message about the rescue helicopter service by May in the current year. For example, in this message: the question of shorter response times even outside daytime treatment. From the government's side, it's a goal to get the response time down to 15 minutes. Consideration is now being given to the practical and, in particular, the economic consequences of introducing such requirements. This must be clarified before a decision can be made on the further progress in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1349	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The intention is then that we should be the best girl in the class in this area. It should really be a matter of course, with our economy, our long-range coast and the management of huge sea areas. I took part in a work to get a heavy Sea King rescue helicopter out on Back almost two years ago, and it has all proved its existence. We remember all the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident, the ‘Sleipner’ accident – in the near past – and railway traffickers. Therefore, the response time is so important. It also pointed out the Fostervoll Committee in advance of this 1997 NoU. It has now emerged in the media that economics should be an argument on the part of the department to slow down the development towards a shorter response time. Would there be an important reason not to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1358	Of course, when we're going to do new things, which we want to do in this society, we can't let go of economics. There is a lot that the Government wants – and which is not least the party that Øystein Hedstrøm represents, pointing to is desirable – that together costs Norwegian society and Norwegian taxpayers a lot of money, and that means that we have to take that into account. Our goal is to get the response time down for 15 minutes. But we need to have a proper handling of this matter so that we know how much it costs before we possibly implement it, and thus know what kind of progress we can have in order to achieve a reduction in the response time.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1365	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the context of work on the notification of a rescue helicopter preparedness, which I believe the department is now in full swing, and has come a long way, there will also be a question: Who will be responsible for this piece? Today I have a feeling that there is no primary responsibility, either in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Defence. Will it be considered to put this responsibility under one department, so that the lines of responsibility are much clearer than the actual situation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1374	One of the themes of the message is the organisation of the administration in relation to the rescue helicopter service, so the answer to that question is yes. In addition, I mention that there is work on following up the Vulnerability Committee, where one points to a much broader context in terms of safety and preparedness in general, which is not only linked to the rescue helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1381	Question 18 was answered earlier in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1387	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘I have become aware that Norwegian youth who have entered there after the admission test at a foreign university are denied study loans because they do not have study competence in Norway. When this university has made the assessment that it will be competent to conduct the studies there, what are the reasons for using Norwegian study competence to assess student loans, and does the Council see the possibility of changing this practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1396	It is the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research that lays down the regulations of the State Loan Fund for Education. In order to receive support from the Loan Fund for studies abroad, the Ministry has determined that the student must fulfil the conditions for admission to right-wing education in Norway. For most studies, this means that the student must have general study competence. If there is no requirement for general study competence for admission to education in Norway, this will also not be required in order to provide support for similar training abroad. This provision is primarily applicable to art training courses, which give admission from samples, etc. The reason for this rule is that it is not desirable to provide support for studies abroad to applicants who are not qualified for admission to right-wing education in Norway. If you were only to require a place of study to provide support for education abroad, there would be situations in which young people who have discontinued or completed secondary education can continue their education abroad, but not in Norway. In my opinion, it would be inconsistent to refuse a youth admission to a university or college in Norway and at the same time give him the opportunity to take right-wing education abroad with the support of Norway. On the question of whether I want to change my practice, my answer is that I don't see it as relevant. To the extent that we require general study competence for admission in Norway, I believe that we must maintain this requirement also for support for studies abroad. On the other hand, I would like to look at the rules on support for studies abroad in relation to the possibility we have now opened up in Norway, with admissions based on real competence. This applies to applicants over 25 years of age who do not qualify for formal qualifications but who are still considered qualified by a university or higher education institution in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1407	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I imagine it may be complicated with different rules for studies in Norway and studies abroad – if it is to be funded in different ways. At the same time, we have the situation of having opportunities to study abroad — studies at universities approved in Norway, with exams approved in Norway. We can then end up in a situation where two Norwegian young people come into the same approved place of education and can receive the same education – but one cannot study because he does not have the money for it, while the other can travel and study and receive this education because one has a personal economy that requires it to be possible, and then come back and pass his exam in Norway. So there are aspects of this that I'm asking the Council of State to still think a little bit about. Now I'm very happy with the real competence -- it'll probably solve a lot of these problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1416	I don't think the disagreement between the representative of Engebretsen and me is so great. Of course, it is possible for anyone entering a foreign education to complete it. The question here is whether or not the State loan fund should provide support, and that is where we believe that the practice of the law on support for individual students must be equal, regardless of whether the education itself is in Norway or abroad. We must have the same rules of competence as regards the type of support provided by the Loan Fund, so that we do not receive discrimination against domestic and foreign students. It is clear that the whole real-time project opens up right-hand training doors for new groups, perhaps also for possible stays abroad in that context. We haven't looked well enough yet on what consequences it might have. It is the seventh and last time the individual institution, including non-residents, has to assess admissions on a real-time basis. But part of that work will also be looking at the study funding scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1428	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Tinius Olsen’s school in Kongsberg is the only one that provides clockmaker training. The offer is established in close cooperation with the Urmaker Association. The students are recruited from all over the country and the training is organised as a special course. The course has had a good search. The municipality of Buskerud estimates to reduce the offer from the fall. This will mean that you will have to apply to Denmark for vocational training. What can the Council of State do to prevent a ‘living’ course from being lost as an offer to secondary school students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1437	As the representative of Rikvam points out, the watchmaking profession is organised as a special race. This means that those who want to be watchmakers first go to the basic course mechanical subjects and then sign a learning contract with a watchmaker already from the second year of training. It is an organisation the industry itself has wanted because they have assessed that the subject is better suited for business training than in school. It is therefore a paradox when, in retrospect, a separate school offer is established at the VKI level for this subject, as has been done at the Tinius Olsen School. Currently, there are 27 registered apprenticeships in the watchmaking profession, four of which were concluded in the autumn of 2000. It shows that there is a good activity in the subject, which I am concerned that it should be in all small crafts. The special scheme implies that the apprenticeship company is responsible for the training from the second year of training and that enterprises receive grants to conduct the training in full from that point in time. The curriculum provides a high degree of freedom to organise training in various ways, including the integration of theory and practice. Following the introduction of Reform 94, Tinius Olsen’s school, in close cooperation with the watchmaking industry, has established a training offer for the watchmaking profession. The offer is organised as a full VKI course, with a large scale of both the field of study and the common general subjects. As a learning contract is signed after the first year of training, it is the enterprises that have to cover this offer for the apprentices. After the signals I received from the municipality of Buskerud, there has been disagreement between the industry and the county if the apprentices have student status and can thus be financed from the guest student scheme. Several county municipalities are sceptical about the need for apprentices to be sent to Kongsberg to take such a large part of the training, including common general education, that the counties themselves can offer to the apprentices. That is why the municipality of Buskerud wants to step down its activity at school. As a result of the Storting’s request to make the necessary changes to the supply structure, the training councils and the Labour Training Council are in the process of assessing the simplification of the supply structure. In this work, it is also natural to assess the organisation of special subjects. It's a work the parties are doing, and I don't want to prejudge this process of proposing special solutions, either for some subjects or for Tinius Olsen's school, until I know what the parties will conclude with.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1448	There was no very pleasant answer. Maybe it shouldn't be. This is a special case – that is correct – and Stortinget has previously said that it should be easier to establish special cases. This was said by the Stortinget in the evaluation of reform 94. So the way to organise the race itself is well in line with what Stortinget has previously been concerned about that we're going to have an offer. It is true that the county councils obviously cannot agree on who should be responsible for the financial responsibility and that this is one of the reasons why this offer can be closed. In my opinion, it would be an accident if it were to be laid down. In the case of the small subjects of which this is part, there is a need to have a central coordinating point. I don't think the landline is a good way to organize this. The aim must be to stimulate the county councils to cooperate on that type of line so that it can operate as a nationwide line. My challenge to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of States be involved and try to push so that the offer can be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1461	I refer to my first response, where I said that the parties to the training councils and the Labour Training Council are going through the supply structure. I find it unnatural for me to anticipate the work by lifting up some subjects or courses, and then making special solutions. Since you already have a learning contract here from the second year of training, I am very uncertain about the premise in the representative's question, namely that you have to go to Denmark to get vocational training in the profession, is correct. I think it should be fully possible to find solutions in Norway even if you choose a different form of organisation. Once the review is completed, it will be natural for the department and me to go into that material as well. But we want to wait until we take concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1468	The problem is that this offer can be closed from the harvest. Therefore, we do not have time to wait for any difficult review of the supply structure. If this offer goes away, as it is at present, we will not be able to get it back in place after the structure of the offer has been evaluated. So what's important is to make sure that this offer is not closed now, and that it can be properly operated until we get an overall review of the offer structure, where everything is to be assessed, both unique and different. My call to the Council of State is that he contacts the county councils, make them aware of the work that is going on, but it is important that the kind of specialities that we have that have worked, that have had good recruitment, can continue to operate until we get a comprehensive review of the whole structure. My last challenge to the Council of State will be: Is it relevant to take that contact and signal it and give it feedback to the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1475	Of course, it is the county councils which have the 27 pupils or apprentices with a learning contract who are responsible for ensuring that they receive the offer they will have within the course of study they have chosen and which they have the right to have carried out. How these county councils then want to organise it, whether they want to use a common offer on Kongsberg or if they want to implement it in other ways, the county councils have to find out for themselves. But to the extent that the ministry can be a catalyst for cooperation, or that the county community wants to use the ministry as a support for finding good solutions, we should of course be willing to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1485	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The majority of Trondheim City Government has adopted a church budget which may require the closure of 9 churches in the city. How does the Council of State assess this situation, and will he intervene to prevent its closure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1494	It is a fundamental principle in the Church Act, which entered into force in 1997, that the population should have access to religious services and other religious services in the congregation they live in. The law expressly states that the municipality has an obligation to cover the costs of operating and maintaining the church, and that this expenditure coverage should provide a basis for, among other things. that the socks can keep the services prescribed by the bishop and that necessary ecclesiastical acts can be performed. It is the church council in the municipality that manages the church budget. The Law states that ordained services must be kept, and that people must be baptized, married, and buried before their dead. The Commune and the Council of Churches must ensure that these statutory tasks are carried out. However, as a State Council, I am not generally superior to either the individual municipality or the Church Council, and will therefore not give any instructions on how to resolve the specific situation that has arisen in Trondheim. Of course, if members of the Municipal Council of Trondheim felt that a budget in the municipality was not sufficient to fulfil the statutory tasks, the normal possibilities for obtaining the legality of the decision have been tested by the county council. Of course, this applies to all municipalities in situations where it is believed that the budget does not follow statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1503	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State also notes that the law says that people in any congregation, any parish, have the right to have a service and a church to go to, and that they also have the duty to maintain the churches and provide services. The last suggestion I have now heard from Trondheim is that you want to close six churches, cancel four deacons and reduce the activity of Nidarosdom considerably. I want to ask the Council of State a follow-up question: how does he view the national church consequences of reducing church and diaconal activity as significantly in a city like Trondheim? If one is also to reduce the same activity in the national sanctuary, it must have clear national church implications. Will the Council of State act in this context? Can he sit still and watch that it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1512	Of course, Nidarosdom has a very special place not only in the Norwegian Church, but in Norway as a whole. These include: This is why we have presented a big message that is now being addressed in the Stortinget, where we propose that some restoration work in Nidarosdom can be covered by the Information Society Fund. However, we have chosen an organisation where the cathedral is a congregation organized under the Church Council and the church responsibility of the municipality, and we shall retain that. It shall not take over the operation of the Nidarosdom by the State of the Ministry of Churches. With regard to the specific budget in Trondheim, it has both positive and negative aspects, and as the Council of Churches, I want every municipality to prioritise appropriations for church purposes. But I also do not disagree with the priority that Trondheim has given in relation to giving lower rates in kindergarten and school or expanding kindergarten and nursing home faster than the minority in Trondheim City. Every municipality must set its priorities, but the statutory tasks must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1519	I thank you again for the answer. Many have thought that Trondheim should appear as a church capital in Norway, and I have understood that the Council of State Gishe has also supported such a thought. This probably means a weakening of the possibilities if, for example, Nidarosis should either be closed or have a significantly reduced activity. When the Council of State presented the current year's church budget, he proposed to set up 35 new performances. It can be understood as a positive and forward-looking thinking on behalf of the Church. If the policy is designed locally to close churches, it raises questions about where and how the clergy are to perform their duties. I will then follow up on the question of the Council of State: does the Council of State have any thoughts about how the priests should arrange their services if the churches are closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1528	Now it's important that we don't mix things up. The 35 posts entered in the 2001 budget, which are out of line with history — at least post-war history — increase in the number of posts in one year’s budget, are to be entered in the individual dioceses’ offices and can be used for the service of the diocese as deemed appropriate. So I'm absolutely convinced that it's going to be all right. With regard to the budget in Trondheim, of course, there is no world business with Trondheim as the church capital. It's a completely different process that needs to be done if you're to have Trondheim as the church capital. I'm going to assume that there will be a process that the various church councils have to decide on. To wish to have Trondheim as a church capital I think I have little to do with the appropriations in Trondheim municipality for church work. I would like to conclude by saying that it is clear that if you have a fixed framework within a budget in a municipality, it must be sufficient to cover statutory tasks. But the Church Joint Council, which is then to use that budget, must also ensure that the statutory tasks take precedence over other tasks in the prioritisation of that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1537	Case 1 on today's map has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2001-01-17.ana.ud2110e1546	There is no record.
